Nomination committee report An external search consultancy is used when recruiting new nonexecutive directors and may be used when recruiting executive directors.
When considering possible candidates, the committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
The committee is mindful of the benefits of a diverse board with a broad range of skills and experience.
What we have done Board appointment The main focus of the committee has been on non-executive succession and, in particular, the appointment of a new nonexecutive director as David Harrel, senior independent director and chair of the remuneration committee, completed his nine years service on 1 December 2016 and will not be seeking reelection at the AGM in 2017.
Nomination committee chairmans Considerable discussion took place between the directors during annual statement the year, both formally and informally, regarding the skills and The nomination committees primary focus this year has again experience we were seeking in a new non-executive director.
been on succession planning for the board.
It was agreed that it was important to appoint an experienced non-executive director with extensive knowledge of the financial Committee members services industry and who had significant listed company board Our current members are Mark Nicholls chairman, James Dean, experience.
A job description was prepared and used as a basis for Sarah Gentleman, David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
interviewing four independent search consultants.
Spencer Stuart was chosen to undertake the search this firm has no relationship We met formally on two occasions in 2016 2015: two.
Details of with the company.
After reviewing a long list, five candidates attendance by members are set out on page 55.
In addition, there were shortlisted for interview.
One candidate, Jim Pettigrew, was have been a number of other informal discussions amongst interviewed by the nomination committee and recommended for members of the committee during the year.
appointment by the board, subject to approval by the regulators.
Role and responsibilities of the committee The nomination committee recommended to the board that it was appropriate and in the best interests of the company that The responsibilities of the committee include reviewing the David Harrel should remain as chairman of the remuneration composition of the board and making recommendations to the committee until the AGM in May 2017 when the remuneration board for the appointment of directors.
The board as a whole then committee report is voted upon by shareholders.
decides upon any such appointment.
The nomination committee also recommended to the board The committee has responsibilities for succession planning for that, subject to regulatory consent, Sarah Gentleman be appointed top management and for executive and non-executive directors.
chairman of the remuneration committee following the AGM.
The committee also considers issues such as appraisals, training In relation to the role of senior independent director, the and director development.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee will be going through the process of committee are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
The current terms of reference for the nomination committee are available on the company's website.
86 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 86 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Governance Independence and re-election to the board Looking forward During 2016, we considered the independence of David Harrel We will continue to keep under review a succession timetable and Kathryn Matthews as non-executive directors as their board for both executives and non-executives.
We will also monitor the tenure had reached nine and six years respectively.
Consideration development of management talent below board level in light was given not only to their excellent contribution to the board, but of the Hampton Alexander review and encourage greater also to whether there was any evidence that their independence diversity and challenge management to develop the talent that had been impaired by their length of service on the board.
The conclusion was that there was no evidence to indicate their independence had been impaired.
All other non-executive directors, with the exception of David Harrel, will be standing Mark Nicholls for re-election at the 2017.
Chairman of the nomination committee Board diversity 22 February 2017 The board recognises the importance of diversity and that it is a wider issue than gender.
We believe that members of the board should collectively possess a diverse range of skills, expertise, industry knowledge, business and other experience necessary for the effective oversight of the group.
The nomination committee considers diversity as one of many factors when recommending new appointments to the board.
For further information on our approach to diversity, please refer to the corporate responsibility report on pages 45 to 46.
Succession planning We continued to develop and monitor succession plans at both board and executive levels.
During 2016, the management presented information on the firms short and long term succession planning and development programmes for senior management.
Potential successors have been identified for senior management positions and non-executive directors have met key individuals as part of normal board interactions and their visits to various teams in London and across the country.
Following the departure of Paul Chavasse, the committee reviewed the plan to redistribute his responsibilities and requested an updated succession plan.
While the benefits of a diverse board and management team are recognised, improving the gender balance at senior management level continues to be a challenge, as is the case in many similar businesses.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 87 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 87
