Audit committee report Committee members Our current members are the independent non-executive directors: James Dean chairman, Sarah Gentleman, David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
The board is satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
I am a chartered accountant while the other committee members have extensive experience of financial matters and of the financial services industry.
We met on six occasions in 2016 2015: six.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 55.
The chief executive, finance director, chief risk officer, head of internal audit and the external audit partner and manager attend almost all meetings by invitation.
Role and responsibilities of the committee Audit committee chairmans These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, annual statement which are available on the companys website.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
During 2016, the external environment and market conditions impacted Rathbones, which led to another busy year for the audit What we have done committee.
The committee has considered a wide range of topics with a focus on the following areas: Financial reporting During the year, we considered the significant financial and analysis of the firms financial reporting with particular regulatory reporting issues, the judgments made in connection consideration on accounting judgments taken during the with the financial statements, viability and going concern preparation of the financial statements statements and the appropriateness of accounting policies.
oversight of the effectiveness of the firms internal and We reviewed the narrative statements in the 2016 report and external auditors accounts, 2016 interim statement and other market updates to ensure that they were fair, balanced, understandable and monitoring of the firms capital position in line with regulatory requirements.
consistent with the reported results.
The committee has been aware of the latest developments in financial reporting and In addition, the Financial Reporting Council FRC informed the FRC guidance.
company during the year that it had reviewed the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 and there were no proposed major financial reporting changes.
82 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 82 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Governance Placing Internal audit We considered the potentially significant impact the defined The internal audit function is an independent, objective assurance benefit pension schemes deficit could have on the firms activity designed to add value and improve the organisations regulatory capital and distributable reserves.
We discussed and operations by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to supported the boards decision to undertake a share placing to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, raise approximately 36.9 million to fund the near term capital control and governance processes.
The internal audit function is requirements and provide a degree of financial flexibility for the third line of defence within the controls framework, providing the firm.
The committee assessed the associated financial and independent assurance to both senior management and the audit reporting implications.
committee, reporting to the chairman of the audit committee.
Deloitte LLP were engaged on 1 July 2015, as a co-source partner, The carrying value of assets supplementing the in-house team.
With Deloittes significant resource and knowledge base, they are able to provide specialist We reviewed the methodology for valuing assets where a assistance supporting the annual internal audit planning process, significant amount of judgment is required, including intangible as well as technical input into individual audit reviews.
A assets, particularly goodwill and client relationships.
combined assurance map has been developed, linking significant The valuation of defined benefit pension obligations risks to first line controls, second line monitoring and oversight and internal audit work.
We reviewed the key assumptions supporting the valuation of defined benefit pension obligations, particularly salary increases, The 2016 internal audit plan was approved by the committee investment returns, inflation and the discount rate, which are ahead of the start of the year with a greater focus on thematic disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements.
The internal audit plan is subject to an annual risk-based the professional advice taken by the company and discussed appraisal.
In setting audit scope, the internal audit function will the assumptions used by us and by other companies with the take into account business strategy and form an independent auditors.
We satisfied ourselves that the assumptions used view of whether the key risks to the organisation have been were reasonable.
identified, including emerging and systematic risks and assess how effectively these risks are being managed.
The status of Provisions and contingent liabilities scheduled work, and the follow up of agreed actions arising from We discussed provisions totalling 14.7 million summarised reviews, to ensure that agreed recommendations are acted upon in note 25 to the financial statements.
These primarily include promptly and regularly reported to the committee.
provisions made in respect of future property dilapidation liabilities and future payments to be made following the acquisition of businesses or amounts payable to new investment managers as outlined above.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 83 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 83 Audit committee report continued What we have done continued Non-audit fees payable to the auditor in 2016 were 161,000.
This represents 27% of the fees for assurance services of 597,000, External audit which includes the assurance reports required by our regulators We place great importance on the quality, effectiveness and and the review of the interim statement 2015: 166,000, 29% of independence of the external audit process.
Other non-audit work undertaken by the auditor in external audit process, including the performance of the external 2016 was largely in relation to pensions advisory work and the auditors, feedback is gathered from both committee members and annual ISAE3402 attestation.
This process was undertaken by internal audit.
We discussed the independence of the external auditor, the nature We also reviewed the annual FRC Audit Quality Inspection report of non-audit services supplied by them and non-audit fee levels prepared on our external auditor and discussed this report with relative to the audit fee.
As a result of the EU Audit Directive the audit partner.
The assessment of the auditors effectiveness and Audit Regulations, a review of the non-audit services policy forms part of our annual consideration of whether the auditor was conducted and a new policy was approved effective as of should be recommended to the board for reappointment.
The revised policy includes prohibited services and continue to believe that KPMG LLP are performing effectively sets a new fee guide that aims to achieve a target cap of 70% of the and their reappointment will be recommended to shareholders statutory audit fee in any year.
The committees prior approval is at the 2017 AGM.
There are no contractual or similar obligations only required where the fee for an individual non-audit service is restricting the firms choice of external auditors.
The committee is responsible for reviewing external audit Prior to undertaking any non-audit service, KPMG LLP also arrangements and for any recommendation to the board completes its own independence confirmation processes, regarding change of audit firm.
This includes consideration of which are approved by the engagement partner.
To provide the the external auditors period in office, their compensation and the committee with oversight in this area, it receives six-monthly scope, quality and cost-effectiveness of their work.
The last audit reports on the non-audit services provided by KPMG LLP.
services contract tender process was undertaken in June 2009, which led to the appointment of KPMG.
We plan to undertake We recognise that, given their knowledge of the business, there are th an audit services contract tender process again before the 10 often advantages in using the external auditor to provide certain anniversary of their appointment and planning will commence non-audit services and we are satisfied that their independence during 2017.
The committee is satisfied that the company has has not been impaired by providing these services.
complied, during the financial year under review and up to the We agreed the external auditors fees which are shown in note 7 date of this report, with the provisions of the Statutory Audit to the financial statements and reviewed the audit engagement Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory letter.
We also had discussions with the external auditor with no Use of Competitor Tender Processes and Audit Committee management present to provide an opportunity for any concerns Responsibilities Order 2014. to be raised and discussed.
We challenged reports from the external auditor outlining their risk assessments and their audit plans including their proposed materiality level for the performance of the annual audit, the status of their audit work and issues arising from it.
Particular focus was given to their testing of internal controls, their work on the key judgment areas and possible audit adjustments.
We can confirm that there are no such material items remaining unadjusted in the financial statements.
84 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 84 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Governance Whistleblowing policy We annually review the groups whistleblowing policy, approve any changes to the document and receive details of any reports made.
As well as meetings with management, I have regular meetings on a one-to-one basis with the head of internal audit before audit committee meetings to ensure that any concerns can be raised in confidence.
Overview of priorities for 2017 As well as considering the standing items of business, the committee will also focus on the following areas during 2017: implementation plans for upcoming reporting standards, namely IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases accounting for recently implemented remuneration arrangements capital planning and forecasting.
In light of its work, the committee was content with the effectiveness of the groups processes governing financial and regulatory reporting and controls, its ethical standards and its relationships with regulators.
Approval This report in its entirety has been approved by the committee and the board of directors and signed on its behalf by: James Dean Chairman of the audit committee 22 February 2017 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 85 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 85
