62 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board meetings Corporate Board meetings are structured in an open atmosphere conducive to challenge and debate.
Board meetings are held regularly with all Directors expected to attend, with five scheduled meetings normally Governance held each year.
At least one of these meetings is held in an overseas Group business location to provide the Board with the opportunity to meet with local management and structured to include a formal and Statement comprehensive site visit to an operating unit.
The 2016 meeting was held in China and included visits by the Board to the Shangma factory in Qingdao, logistics centre and store checks in Shanghai, and time spent with external speakers covering local geopolitical, industry-related and commercial issues.
Further details can be found on page 65.
Additional meetings, which may be held by phone or consist of written resolutions, are held throughout the year to consider topics that may have arisen outside the formal agenda structure.
The Company is premium listed on the London Directors receive papers several days in advance of meetings and are Stock Exchange and this Statement is prepared expected to devote sufficient time for review prior to the meeting taking place, enabling them to fully engage with, challenge and stimulate with reference to the Financial Reporting Councils productive discussion.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in At the conclusion of every formal Board meeting, the Chairman holds effect for the financial periods beginning on or a session with the other Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive after 1 October 2014.
This Statement sets out how Directors present, providing further opportunity for the Non-Executive Directors to challenge and critique the performance of the Executive the Company has applied the Main Principles of the Directors and help drive future agenda items.
Code throughout the year ended 31 December Operating and financial reports from the Executive Directors are 2016 and as at the date of this Statement.
discussed at each Board meeting.
When appropriate, detailed presentations may be made by non-Board members on material matters to the Group.
Leadership Board responsibilities The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Group, focusing on its governance with the highest regard to the principles of the Code.
As part of its responsibility, the Board oversees the development of the Companys strategic aims, ensures appropriate processes are in place to manage risk and monitors the Companys Board Governance Structure financial and operational performance against objectives.
Committees of the Board The Board consists of a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors who together have collective accountability to RBs Shareholders as well as responsibility for the overriding strategic, Board financial and operational objectives and direction of RB.
Audit Corporate Remuneration Nomination Committee Responsibility, Committee Committee The Board manages the overall leadership of the Group with reference Sustainability, to its formal Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
This schedule Ethics and is reviewed annually, with the last review undertaken in November 2016 Compliance and broadly covers: Committee matters which are legally required to be considered or decided by the Board, such as approval of RBs Annual Report and Financial Statements, declaration of dividends and appointment of new See pages See pages See pages See page Directors: 69-73 74-75 76-80 68 matters recommended by the Code to be considered by the Board, such as Terms of Reference for the Board and its committees, review Executive Committee Disclosure Committee of internal controls and risk management: compliance with regulations governing UK publicly listed companies, The Board has established four Board committees to assist in the such as the UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and execution of its responsibilities.
These are the Nomination Transparency Rules and the Prospectus Rules: and Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the matters relating to developments in, or changes to, the Groups Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance strategic direction, material corporate or financial transactions.
Each committee operates under terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference are reviewed regularly The full Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is available at and can be found on the Companys website.
membership of each Director is shown on pages 54 to 56.
The Board has also established two supporting management committees, the The principal activities undertaken by the Board are set out over the Disclosure Committee, which ensures accuracy and timeliness of following pages.
A summary overview is set out in the table on Board disclosure of financial and other public announcements, and the focus areas in 2016 on page 61.
Executive Committee, which is RBs key management committee.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 63 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Nomination Committee The Chairman The Nomination Committees key objective is to make recommendations The roles of the Chairman and the CEO have a clear division of to the Board on suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and responsibilities, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The its committees and regularly review and refresh their composition to Chairmans principal responsibility is for the effective running of ensure that they comprise individuals with the necessary skills, the Board and chairing Board and Shareholder meetings.
Effective knowledge and experience to effectively discharge their responsibilities.
leadership and governance of the Board allows the Directors to focus Membership during the year and further details are set out in the on the key strategic, financial and operational issues, to make sound Nomination Committee Report on page 68. judgements and be comfortable to challenge any uncertainties, as well as ensuring a transparent approach in communicating Audit Committee with Shareholders.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, and is responsible for ensuring effective The Chairman leads the annual performance evaluation process of the internal financial control and risk management.
Membership of the Board and its committees, which in 2016, was conducted using external Audit Committee and details of its activities during the year are set out consultants EquityCommunications Limited, in line with good corporate in the Audit Committee Report on pages 69 to 73. governance practice.
Details of the evaluation follow on page 65.
Remuneration Committee The Chief Executive Officer The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight The CEO is principally responsible for the day-to-day management of RB, responsibility by ensuring that Remuneration Policy and practices in line with the strategic, financial and operational objectives set by the reward fairly and responsibly: are linked to corporate and individual Board.
He chairs the Executive Committee, consisting of the CEO, the performance: and take account of the generally accepted principles of CFO and senior management executives, who together are responsible good governance.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee during for execution of the Companys strategy and achieving its commercial the year is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 82. aims.
More details about the members of the Executive Committee are The Report on pages 76 to 92 details the current and proposed policy set out on pages 57 to 59. on remuneration and sets outs Executive Directors remuneration, Non-Executive Directors fees and share ownership.
The CEO has the power delegated to him by the Board to enable him to carry out his duties efficiently.
Such powers include delegation of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and day-to-day management of the business of the Company to each of the Compliance Committee Officers of the Executive Committee, acting individually or as a group or The Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance sub-committee: acquisition and disposal of businesses and unbudgeted Committee was established in July 2016 to support the Board in capital expenditure projects subject, in each case, to a 50 million limit: reviewing, monitoring and assessing the Companys approach to and instructing advisors and instigating legal proceedings on behalf of responsible, sustainable, ethical and compliant corporate conduct and the Company in respect of matters for which no further Board authority to assist the Board in upholding its values of honesty and respect.
Details of the priorities which it has set itself for the coming year and its achievements to date are set out in the Report on pages 74 to 75.
The Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the Board attendance at scheduled meetings Chairman and is available to the other Directors and Shareholders who In 2016, there were five scheduled Board meetings, plus four additional have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO meetings.
There were four regular Audit Committee meetings plus one or CFO.
additional meeting, four regular Remuneration Committee meetings, one separate Nomination Committee meeting and the inaugural The Executive Directors meeting of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities for the operation Compliance Committee.
The table below sets out the attendance of RBs business as determined by the CEO.
Every Director may request by individual Directors at the main Board and individual committee that any matter not delegated to the CEO should be discussed by the meetings which each Director was eligible to attend.
Directors who Board and that no action should be taken before the Board has decided were not members of individual Board committees were also invited on the matter.
to attend one or more meetings of those committees during the year.
The Non-Executive Directors Board Audit Remuneration CRSEC Nomination The Non-Executive Directors share full responsibility for the execution of Adrian Bellamy 5 of 5 4 of 4 1 of 1 1 of 1 the Boards duties, are independent of management and are therefore able to provide critical input into Board decisions through their 3 3 Nicandro Durante 4 of 5 3 of 4 1 of 1 contributions to Board discussions and their roles on, and Chairmanship 1 Mary Harris 5 of 5 3 of 3 of, Board committees.
With a wealth of experience and skills between them, they are well placed to help develop the Companys long-term Adrian Hennah 5 of 5 strategic, financial and operational goals, as well as constructively 1 Pamela Kirby 5 of 5 3 of 3 1 of 1 1 of 1 challenge and scrutinise the day-to-day management of the business against the performance targets and objectives set.
3 Ken Hydon 5 of 5 3 of 4 1 of 1 Rakesh Kapoor 5 of 5 1 of 1 The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for setting appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors, and ensuring 3 Andr Lacroix 5 of 5 3 of 4 1 of 1 performance targets are continually monitored to be closely aligned 2 2 Christopher Sinclair 4 of 5 3 of 4 with Shareholder interests.
They are also critical to the development of succession planning and appointment and removal of senior executives 2 Judy Sprieser 4 of 5 4 of 4 1 of 1 and management.
3 Warren Tucker 4 of 5 4 of 4 The Non-Executive Directors are also responsible for ensuring that adequate 1 Members of the Audit Committee for three of the four meetings internal controls and risk management systems have been developed 2 Unable to attend due to a long standing commitment and implemented, that these are continually monitored and suitably 3 Unable to attend following calendar miscommunication on the Companys part robust and that financial information is accurate and transparent.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 64 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board balance and independence Corporate On appointment, Non-Executive Directors are made aware and are required to confirm they will allocate sufficient time to their role to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
They are also required to Governance seek agreement from the Chairman before taking on additional commitments, and to declare any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Non-Executive Directors are engaged under the terms of a Letter of Statement Appointment.
Initial terms of appointment are for three years with one months notice, with all Directors standing for re-election at every continued Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
The Nomination Committee has principal responsibility delegated to it for making recommendations to the Board on new appointments as well as the composition of the Board and its committees.
The Board and each of its members are confident they individually have the expertise and relevant experience required to perform the functions required of a Company Secretary Director of a listed company.
The Company Secretary takes responsibility for compliance with all relevant governance requirements and assists the Chairman with The Company recognises the developmental advantages of an external ensuring Board procedures are followed.
The Company Secretary in his non-executive role on a non-competitor board and Executive Directors or her role further advises the Board on changes to relevant legal and are permitted to seek such a role, provided that they do not take on corporate governance regulations.
The Board is collectively responsible more than one non-executive directorship in, or become the Chairman for the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Adrian Hennah is a Non-Executive Director of RELX Group PLC and RELX NV.
He was also a Non-Executive Director of Effectiveness Indivior PLC until 11 May 2016, when he stepped down from that board.
Board composition and succession planning The 2016 evaluation of the Boards performance during the year The Board regularly reviews its composition to determine whether it has concluded that the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors the right mix of skills and background to effectively perform its duties.
continue to devote sufficient time to carrying out their duties to the As part of this review, it also considers internal executives and senior Company.
Each Director standing for re-election has individually management positions to ensure a proper breadth of talent is provided assurances that they remain committed to their roles and can developed.
The Board has appointed Directors from a wide variety dedicate sufficient time to perform their duties.
Accordingly, the Board of business backgrounds to provide it with a strong balance of skills recommends that all Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions to and experience.
The Board is comprised of the Chairman and eight re-elect the Directors at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors who, together with two Executive Directors, help maintain a solid, collective understanding of the Company and its Director inductions and training daily business.
More details about the current Board members can be RB has established a comprehensive induction programme for new found on pages 54 to 56.
The programme covers RBs business, legal and regulatory requirements of Directors and includes one-to-one presentations from Andr Lacroix acts as the Senior Independent Director.
All Nonsenior executives across the Group covering topics such as strategy, Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, who was independent investor relations, taxation, Internal Audit, supply and the Companys on appointment are determined by the Board to be independent.
categories of Health, Hygiene and Home.
The induction programme The Board has deemed Judy Sprieser and Ken Hydon independent, has several aims and serves multiple purposes.
It provides new Directors notwithstanding that they have served in excess of the recommended with an understanding of RB, its businesses and the markets and nine years, by virtue of their behaviour and judgement, which remains regulatory environments in which it operates, provides an overview of challenging and unbiased.
the responsibilities for Non-Executive Directors of RB and builds links to RBs people and stakeholders.
Incoming Board members will also have The Shareholder agreement between the Company and JAB Holdings legal due diligence meetings and meet with the Groups External B. V. JAB at the time of the merger in 1999 entitled JAB to nominate Auditor.
A holding in excess of 20% or 10% of the Companys ordinary shares entitles JAB to nominate two Directors or one Director Site visits are arranged to the Groups operations to gain an insight into respectively.
JABs current holding is below this amount and there is the business, and also form part of the annual Board meeting cycle, with currently no nominated Director on the Board.
at least one meeting held at an offsite business location.
In accordance with the Code, every Director submits him or herself for The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Directors election re-election at every Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
receive suitable training to enable them to carry out their duties.
As part of their role, Directors are also expected to personally identify Board diversity any additional training requirements they feel would benefit them in The composition of the Boards members reflects diverse professional, performing their duties to the Company.
Ongoing training arranged ethnic and national backgrounds.
We comply with the Davies Report by the Company covers a wide variety of sector-specific and business recommendation of at least 25% females on the Board and at all times issues, as well as legal and financial regulatory developments relevant consider gender balance as part of discussions on Board composition.
to the Company and the Directors.
Training may be provided by way of The Company recognises the Hampton Alexander review to have at least briefing papers or presentations, as well as meetings with senior 33% females on the Board by 2020.
The Boards diversity reflects itself executives or other external sources.
throughout our business and helps to ensure that we cater fully to our varied spectrum of consumers across all markets that we serve.
Details of diversity through the workplace can be found on page 30.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 65 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The results of the external assessment confirmed that the Board was Board support working well, with an enviable and productive blend of experienced and The Company Secretary is responsible for organising Board meetings, as newer Board members.
The Board was commended on its high levels of well as collating any papers for the Board to review and consider.
Board functionality, cohesiveness and mutual respect between the Executive and committee papers, as well as past meeting minutes, are accessible and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and CEO were to all Directors through a secure and confidential electronic document emphasised as being key assets to the Board.
The Chairman earned storage facility.
This facility is maintained by RBs Secretariat function particular praise and EquityCommunications noted the Boards warm and additionally holds other information which the Chairman or and universal support for his direction and performance.
Company Secretary may deem useful to the Directors, such as press releases and pertinent Company information.
The most significant challenge for the Board going forward was recognised to lie in succession planning.
In particular, and in light of its All of the Directors have individual access to advice from the Company current strong composition, continuing to source suitably well-balanced Secretary and a procedure exists for Directors to take independent and diverse candidates, both internally and externally, for future professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their membership and in succession of the Chairman, CEO and as Nonduties.
Executive appointments reach their maturity.
Conflicts of interest and indemnity The Companys strong and deeply integrated culture, extending right Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 to through the Group, was recognised as a clear driver for RBs growth and avoid interests, direct or indirect, which might conflict with the interests dynamic characteristics, with the ability to take and implement decisions of the Group.
Under the terms of the Companys Articles of Association, swiftly not just at Board level but globally, throughout the layers of such conflicts can be authorised by the Board which at all times takes management beneath the Board.
This was tempered with the need to responsibility for ensuring compliance with laws and regulations on always be mindful of newly emerging regulatory frameworks and corporate governance, and that Directors potential conflicts of interest developments within health and safety.
The Boards rational responses to the challenge faced in South Korea The Company indemnifies the Directors and Officers of the Company were also commended, stressing the continued confidence displayed by and any Group subsidiary to the extent permitted by CA 2006 and the the Board in each other and management was testament to being able FCA Listing Rules in respect of the legal defence costs for claims against to perform well under pressure.
The indemnity would not provide cover for a Director or Officer if that individual was found to have acted The 2016 review of the Boards performance and that of its committees fraudulently or dishonestly.
Additionally, Directors and Officers liability concluded that the Board, its committees and individual Directors were insurance cover was maintained throughout the year at the Companys continuing to perform effectively.
Recommendations have been taken expense.
on board to be addressed and these will be reassessed as part of the 2017 evaluation.
Evaluation of the Board The Board annually reviews its own and its committees performance and effectiveness.
In line with the Code requirements, an independent external review took place in the year, facilitated by EquityCommunications Limited EquityCommunications.
Board visit to Shanghai EquityCommunications provides board evaluation services and has no other connection with the Company.
The 2016 Board evaluation was In September 2016, the RB Board travelled the first externally facilitated review that EquityCommunications had carried out for the Company.
to Shanghai, China for its annual off site strategy session.
The scope of the evaluation was broad and included corporate strategy, risk oversight, degree of challenge and decision making, the role of the Chairman, succession planning and Board committees.
The evaluation Local business insights was conducted through use of a detailed questionnaire specifically Tour of the Shangma sexual wellbeing factory in Qingdao targeted for the Company and designed to elicit full and meaningful responses.
Trade visits Visit to logistics centre outside Shanghai A report, containing the findings of EquityCommunications, together with action points and recommendations for the Board to consider, was distributed to Directors and the results of the assessment subsequently China discussed by the Board at its November meeting.
Presentations by leading experts on: socio economic challenges and opportunities In addition, the Chairmans performance was separately considered consumer and market trends shaping growth by the Senior Independent Director with input from his fellow Connected Health Non-Executive Directors and also discussed in November.
Digital sales and marketing Review of the DvM operating area Comprehensive review of RBs e-commerce platform including D2C operation.
Meetings with the China management team Meetings with local financial management, with a focus on internal financial controls by the Audit Committee Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 66 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk appetite Corporate The Board has overall responsibility for complying with the Code and the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
It oversees Governance the internal controls established, and monitors their effectiveness, in managing risk.
The sectors and environment within which RB operates are dynamic and fast moving, and the controls are continually kept Statement under review to minimise the potential exposure to risk.
The system is designed to evolve and manage, rather than eliminate, risks to RBs continued business objectives, and the Board relies on these controls in so far as they are able to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups major risks and mitigating factors are detailed on pages 46 to 53.
As part of its risk control, RB regularly evaluates principal risks to achieving objectives, the likelihood of such risks materialising and Accountability determining the ability of the Group to cope with the circumstances Risk management should they occur.
In doing so, it also looks to actions that can be taken, The Board has ultimate responsibility for preparing the Annual Report controls that can be implemented and processes that can be followed to and Financial Statements.
RB has implemented robust internal controls reduce the chances of risk events taking place, mitigating the potential to safeguard the integrity of both the Group and its subsidiary Financial impact and ensuring that the cost of doing so is proportionate to the Statements and ensures that adequate verification processes are in place benefit gained.
During the year a significant change was made to to enable it to confirm that the Groups Financial Statements present address compliance risk.
A compliance assessment process was a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of RBs position and managed in parallel with the established risk management process, and prospects, in line with Code requirements.
The Board considers that the a separate compliance risk register was also produced.
Compliance risks Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, determined as major risks are detailed as such.
balanced and understandable and provide sufficient information for Shareholders to be able to assess the Companys position, performance, Internal control business model and strategy.
Internal control processes are implemented through clearly defined roles and responsibilities, delegated by the policies to the executive team and RBs finance function, headed up by the CFO, has implemented a senior management.
number of policies, processes and controls to enable the Company to review and fully comply with changes in accounting standards, financial RB operates three strands in monitoring internal control systems and regulations and recognised practices.
These processes are kept under managing risk: review on an ongoing basis.
Multiple teams including consolidation Management ensures the controls, policies and procedures are and financial accounting, together with technical support, ensure both followed in dealing with risks in day-to-day business.
Such risks are internal and external developments are reviewed and responded to.
The mitigated at source with controls interwoven into the relevant Group also maintains a Finance Policy Manual setting out the required systems and processes.
Supervisory controls either at management standards of financial reporting and approvals across the Group and level or through delegation ensure appropriate checks and its operating units, including a structured process for the appraisal and verification takes place, with any failures dealt with promptly and authorisation of any material capital projects.
awareness raised in order to review gaps in existing controls.
Throughout RB, a key responsibility for any line manager is to ensure The basis for the preparation of Group Financial Statements is set out on the achievement of business objectives with appropriate risk page 110 under Accounting Policies.
management and internal control systems.
Each function and operating unit has its own management which The Companys External Auditors Report, setting out its work and acts as a second line of oversight and verification.
This level sets the reporting responsibilities, can be found on pages 98 to 104.
The terms, local level policies and procedures, specific to its own business areas of responsibility and scope of the External Auditors work are environment, subject to Group policy and authorisation.
They further agreed by the Board and set out in the Auditors engagement letter.
act in a supervisory capacity over the lower level management implementation of controls.
The financial performance of each More information on the Groups principal risks and strategy for growth function and operating unit is monitored on a monthly basis against and achieving targeted goals is detailed in the CEOs Statement and the pre-approved budgets and set against forecasts, developed higher Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 1 to 53. up the management chain, and ultimately overseen by the executive management and the Board.
The Directors Statement of Responsibilities on page 96 details the The third strand is provided through independent review by both Going Concern Statement as required by the Listing Rules and the Internal and External Audit teams, who challenge the information Code and the Directors responsibility for the Financial Statements, for and assurances provided by the first two strands.
This review disclosing relevant audit information to the Auditor and for ensuring ultimately gets reported back to the Board, via the Audit Committee, that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
with action taken to address matters identified.
More details on the Audit Committee and its duties can be found on pages 69 to 73.
The As part of the plans to acquire Mead Johnson, the Board will continue Groups compliance controls further include operating an to ensure proper due diligence processes are in place in the forthcoming independent and anonymous whistleblowing facility, annual period.
More details of the acquisition can be found on pages 10 to 11. management reviews and providing training specific to individual needs within the business.
The Board is also provided with reports on the effectiveness of these controls to ensure full oversight of the business.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 67 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements RB has a strong culture of support for its internal controls.
Function and Feedback is presented to the Board to ensure all Directors are fully operating management meet to discuss performance measured against aware of the views of existing Shareholders, investors and analysts.
strategic aims and goals, with risks and risk controls incorporated into Analysis of RBs Shareholder register is made available to the Board and the discussions.
More detail on the Groups principal strategic risks and reports prepared by the Groups brokers and public relations advisors uncertainties can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 46 to 53. are provided to all Directors after every significant corporate event and on other relevant occasions.
RB has developed a Code of Conduct on which employees must undertake training.
This training includes reminding employees of the On a monthly basis, and at each Board Meeting, the Board receives Groups strict policies on reporting of any adverse events in relation updates from the CEO on the Companys share price movements, major to its products, as well as the availability of an independent and share transactions and the views of both investors and analysts on the anonymous whistleblowing facility.
Together they help ensure a solid Groups performance.
backbone of ethical, responsible behaviour amongst RBs employees, providing an extra layer of support to the internal controls with an All Shareholders may speak with the Companys Investor Relations intrinsic awareness of RBs policies on corporate responsibility.
team and the Company Secretary: and a section of the RB website is dedicated to Shareholders.
The Chairman is also available to discuss A Code of Conduct for ethical marketing is also being rolled out globally governance and strategy with major Shareholders and does so regularly to employees in 2017 to drive the principles of ethical marketing and throughout the year, providing feedback on the meetings to the rest of putting the consumer at the heart of everything we do.
In November 2016, the Chairman carried out a two-day detail see the full Code of Conduct at www.
roadshow with a number of institutional investors focusing on governance and the Companys strategy.
This culture of ethical and responsible conduct has been further strengthened with the creation of a Corporate Responsibility, If required, key executives, along with the Senior Independent Director, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
The focus of this are available to discuss matters of concern.
committee is on the Companys corporate social responsibilities, environmental and sustainability issues and overall ethical conduct Annual General Meeting and regulatory compliance.
More details on its work can be found The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to meet with its on pages 74 and 75. private Shareholders in particular, giving them an opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, chairs of the committees and the Board.
Statement of compliance with the Code The Board confirms that reviews and monitoring of the appropriateness All Shareholders are able to vote on the resolutions put to the meeting.
and effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management Voting is by way of poll providing each share with one vote.
Results of throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the the poll are released to the London Stock Exchange and published on Annual Report and Financial Statements have been satisfactorily the Groups website shortly after the AGM.
completed in compliance with provisions C. 2.1 and C. 2.3 of the Code with no significant failings or weaknesses identified.
During the year, Shareholder resources the Directors undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that could threaten RBs business model, Website future performance, solvency and liquidity.
For further details, see the The Investor Relations hub on the RB website provides the Board with principal risks section on pages 46 to 53. an additional method of communicating with Shareholders.
As well as the latest regulatory disclosures, the hub includes copies of the latest The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6 and the information is and previous years Annual Reports, latest share price information and included in the section on Takeover Directive on page 93. copies of previous investor presentations, as well as key calendar dates.
The website is available at www.
com investors Relations with Shareholders Shareholders can also access our Sustainability Report and associated The Board values effective communication with Shareholders and is policies on the RB website at www.
com committed to regular, clear and transparent dialogue.
This includes formal presentations of full year and interim results, together with quarterly statements on the Companys key performance indicators, with roadshows to meet with institutional investors following results announcements.
RB maintains regular dialogue with trade analysts and fund managers to ensure a widespread understanding and availability of information regarding developments for the Group, as well as the industry sectors which RB serves.
The CEO, CFO and the Director of Investor Relations meet regularly with institutional Shareholders and analysts to discuss the performance of the Group and its strategy.
Where appropriate, the views of Shareholders are also sought in relation to remuneration plans and governance issues.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements
