68 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Activity Nomination The Committees focus during 2016 and at the start of this year has been the composition of the Board, its principal committees and their Chairs, as well as succession planning for the positions of Chairman, CEO and senior Committee Report management: to ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills, expertise, experience, diversity and independence to enable it to perform effectively: and that its governance structures are of the highest standard.
Ethics and compliance have been a strategic priority for the Group, underlined by the importance of setting the tone from the top.
The Audit Committee previously covered ethical matters: however, to assist the Board in fulfilling its duty to safeguard and advance the Companys reputation for responsible and sustainable corporate conduct, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board the creation of a separate Board committee to review, monitor and assess the Boards approach to and management of corporate social responsibility, environmental and sustainability issues and behaviours, ethical conduct and regulatory compliance.
Pam Kirbys knowledge of healthcare and previous experience as a member of sustainability, ethics and compliance committees on other boards are highly regarded and she was asked to chair the newly established Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance CRSEC Committee.
She was appointed as Chair on 28 July 2016.
The first report of the CRSEC Committee is on pages 74 and 75.
Our commitment to ensuring a balanced and diverse Board with a wealth of skills The Committee meets on an as needed basis and formally met once during the year.
In addition, matters within the Committees remit and experience is key to safeguarding the were also taken as specific items at full Board meetings, principally Groups values and culture and promoting consideration of succession planning more widely within the Group and talent identification, management and development.
Members of the RBs long-term success.
Committee also met together informally to discuss senior executive Adrian Bellamy succession planning.
Chair of the Nomination Committee Effectiveness In line with the Code requirements and corporate governance best practice, an independent external Board evaluation was facilitated Role of the Nomination Committee through EquityCommunications Limited.
The evaluation covered the Board The role of the Committee is to review and monitor the structure, size and its committees with the exception of the CRSEC Committee as it was and composition of the Board and its committees and to make considered too new to evaluate and was conducted on an anonymous recommendations to the Board of suitable candidates for appointment basis using a comprehensive questionnaire.
Details of the process can be to the Board and its committees.
The Committee also has responsibility found on page 65, together with the outcome.
for reviewing succession plans for the Board and key management roles.
Diversity The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys The Board and Committee consider diversity, including gender, amongst its website.
They are reviewed annually to ensure that they continue to members to be a key factor in steering the Company to strategic and reflect best practice.
RBs customers are from wide and diverse backgrounds and so diversity is pivotal to understanding and best serving our customers.
Composition The Nomination Committee is comprised of a majority of Non-Executive There is a strong commitment to engendering an all-embracing culture Directors.
During the year the following Directors were members: of acceptance throughout the business and the Board recognises the 1 1,3 need to set the tone from the very top.
This commitment is clearly Adrian Bellamy Mary Harris Sue Shim 1 demonstrated in the diverse composition of the Board, which comprises Chairman Ken Hydon Chris Sinclair 1,3 five nationalities and three women, two of whom are committee Chairs.
Jaspal Bindra Rakesh Kapoor Judy Sprieser 1 2 1,3 Nicandro Durante Pamela Kirby Doug Tough Focus for 2017 1 Andr Lacroix Warren Tucker On 20 March 2017 it was approved that Mary Harris will move from the Audit Committee to the Remuneration Committee following the 1 Stepped down from the Committee on 16 March 2016 conclusion of the AGM and succeed Judy Sprieser as Chair of the 2 Appointed to the Committee on 28 July 2016 3 Stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 5 May 2016 Remuneration Committee from November 2017.
Judy Sprieser will remain on the Remuneration Committee to support Mary in her new role.
We Biographical details of the members of the Board who held office also approved that Andr Lacroix will become Chairman of the Audit during the year and up to the date of this Report can be found on Committee from the conclusion of the Companys AGM.
step down as Chairman but will remain a member of the Committee to support Andr In his new role.
Following review of the Committees composition, on 16 March 2016 The Board will continue to focus on maintaining strong leadership and to its membership was refreshed to comprise the Chairman, CEO, Senior develop its Directors and update and refresh their skills and knowledge, Independent Director and Chairs of the principal Board committees.
with particular focus on the culture and operating model that has made RB a successful multinational company.
The Nomination Committee will The Deputy Company Secretary, who at the time held the role of focus specifically on composition of the Board and its committees and InterimCompany Secretary, acted as Secretary to the Committee their Chairs.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Adrian Bellamy Chair of the Nomination Committee Annual Report and Financial Statements 20 March 2017
