69 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements mitigated.
Looking at the major risks is a key element of our review of Audit the effectiveness of RBs risk management and control systems and identified risks are clearly reflected in our communications to Shareholders.
This year, we made a significant change to address Committee Report compliance risk: a compliance assessment process was managed in parallel with the established risk management process and a separate compliance risk register produced.
Details are set out on pages 46 to 53.
The Committee is responsible for auditor effectiveness and independence.
We continue to be satisfied with the work carried out by PwC in the 2016 financial year and confirm that it remains independent and is best placed to conduct the Companys audit for 2017.
In compliance with EU legislation, we are obliged to rotate to a different auditor by 2020 and, as we indicated in last years report, it is our intention to recommend to Shareholders at the 2018 AGM the appointment of a new auditor.
We have started to prepare for the tender process to be carried out during the first half of 2017 and will work hard to ensure a seamless transition to the new auditor for the 2018 financial year.
The Committee has reviewed the 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements to provide assurance that they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide sufficient information to enable the Shareholders to assess the Groups business model, strategy and Our primary focus remains the accuracy of performance.
The form and content of the Annual Report and Accounts our financial reporting and the robustness of were reviewed and approved, and consistency of narrative within the document confirmed.
The preparation and verification processes were our internal controls and risk management determined to be robust.
Following our review, we advised the Board processes.
that we were satisfied that the 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, met its objectives and supported the Ken Hydon Board in making its statement on page 96.
Chair of the Audit Committee Committee meetings are scheduled ahead of Board meetings and a summary is given to the Board at the following meeting.
Minutes of Committee meetings are provided to the Board.
Terms of reference are on the Companys website.
Introduction I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the financial I would like to acknowledge and thank the other members of the Audit year ended 31 December 2016 which outlines the role, responsibilities Committee for their diligence and support during the year.
Sue Shim and activities of the Committee during the year.
and Jaspal Bindra stood down at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM as they did not stand for re-election.
In March 2016, Pamela Kirby and Maintaining the integrity of our financial reporting, monitoring the Mary Harris were appointed as members of the Committee and I was robustness of internal controls and overseeing risk management delighted to welcome them both.
They have brought new perspectives processes continues to be our primary focus.
This enables the to discussions at our meetings.
Pam was subsequently appointed Chair Committee to endorse the results, provide reassurance to the Board of the newly established Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and be able to say that the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Compliance Committee which reviews compliance and ethical taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provide the matters, such as fraud and whistleblowing.
Pam has worked closely with necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Groups position me to ensure that any processes used by both committees or financial and performance, business model and strategy.
implications which arise are sufficiently covered by the appropriate committee s. Since the year end it was approved that Mary Harris will We have therefore continued to review and monitor our risk and control become a member of the Remuneration Committee from May 2017 and processes, which have included the potential impact on the Companys succeed Judy Sprieser as Chair in the Autumn.
Mary will cease to be a internal risk control processes from our expanding IT programme and member of the Audit Committee from May 2017 in order to devote SAP implementation and some of the consequences of the tragedy in herself to her new responsibilities.
I thank her for her input to date and South Korea.
wish her well in her new role.
Each year the Committee has a detailed standing agenda of matters to Over the coming year the Committee will continue to provide oversight be considered and reviewed.
In addition to the regular agenda reviews, and reassurance to the Board on the risk management process and we have carried out focused reviews of: quality standards management: control procedures.
Activities will include cyber security, the roll out of IT systems failure: legal and product non-compliance: taxation issues: SAP, shared services and preparations for new accounting standards.
and the progress of the Groups global SAP programme.
The Committee met with operational management at its meetings to consider financial, This will be my last Audit Committee report as I will be stepping down legal, regulatory and IT risks and controls.
The Committee appreciated from the post of Chair at the conclusion of the AGM.
Andr Lacroix will the open discussions with local financial senior executives from the US succeed me as Chair.
I will remain a member of the Committee and give and from China on internal control risk.
During the year we reviewed the Companys major risk assessment Ken Hydon Chair of the Audit Committee which identified and prioritised the principal strategic risks and 20 March 2017 uncertainties that might affect the Group and how they could be Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 70 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements All members are expected to have an understanding of the principles of, Audit and recent developments in, financial reporting and an understanding of the Groups internal control systems.
On joining the Committee and during their tenure, members receive additional training tailored Committee Report to their individual requirements.
Such training includes meetings with internal management covering Internal Audit, legal, tax, treasury and financial matters, as well as meetings with the External Auditor.
continued All members of the Committee receive regular briefings from senior executives or PwC on matters covering: governance and legislative developments: accounting practices and policies: tax: and treasury.
Meetings During 2016, the Company held four scheduled meetings at times related to the Companys reporting cycle, and the attendance of members at the meetings is set out in the table on page 63.
Composition In addition, a less formal Committee session with local financial The Audit Committee is made up entirely of Non-Executive Directors management was held in September 2016 as part of the Boards who are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the strategy visit to China.
Senior representatives of the External Auditor, Nomination Committee.
Membership of the Audit Committee during the Group Head of Internal Audit and the CFO regularly attend the year was as follows: meetings.
The Chairman and CEO are also invited to all meetings and other senior management attend when deemed appropriate by Name the Audit Committee.
Time is allocated at each meeting for private Ken Hydon Chairman discussion with the Head of Internal Audit and PwC without the other 1 Jaspal Bindra invitees being present, and a private meeting of the Committee.
2 Mary Harris 2 Audit Committee meetings take place ahead of Board meetings and Pamela Kirby the Audit Committee Chairman provides an update of the key issues Andr Lacroix discussed to the Board at each meeting.
Minutes of Audit Committee 1 Sue Shim meetings are provided to the Board and the External Auditor.
Warren Tucker Role and responsibilities 1 Stepped down from the Board and Committee at the conclusion of the Companys The Audit Committee is part of the Groups governance framework AGM on 5 May 2016.
2 Appointed to the Committee on 16 March 2016. and supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and overall The Deputy Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee risk management process.
Its role and responsibilities are set out in throughout the year.
its Terms of Reference which can be found at www.
In 2016, the Board reviewed and updated the Committees terms of reference The Board considers that each member of the Audit Committee to take account of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and the is independent and meets the requirements of the UK Corporate associated Guidance on Audit Committees, recommended best practice Governance Code the Code.
The Codes requirement is for members and to reflect on its interface with the newly established Corporate of the Committee to have significant, recent and relevant financial Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance CRSEC Committee.
All of the members have financial, economics and or business management expertise in multinational organisations.
Two In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committees of the members have held senior finance posts.
Ken Hydon, Chairman responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following matters: since 16 November 2006, was previously CFO of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005 and Warren Tucker was previously CFO of Cobham plc Financial reporting until May 2013.
All members are expected to have an understanding Monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company, of the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting including preliminary and interim announcements.
Review and and an understanding of the Groups internal control systems.
On challenge, where necessary, the actions and judgements of joining the Committee and during their tenure, members receive management before submission to the full Board.
additional training tailored to their individual requirements.
Such Consider significant legal claims and regulatory issues.
training includes meetings with internal management covering Internal Audit, legal, tax, treasury and financial matters as well as meetings with Narrative reporting the External Auditor.
All members of the Committee receive regular Review the content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements briefings from senior executives on matters covering governance and and advise the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and legislative developments, accounting practices and policies and tax understandable and provides the information necessary for and treasury.
The Committee as a whole is considered by the Board Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, to be competent in the Companys sector.
The skills and expertise business model and strategy.
of each Committee member are summarised on pages 54 to 56.
Risk management and internal controls Review and monitor on an ongoing basis the scope and effectiveness of internal financial, operational and compliance risk management processes.
Consider the findings of internal investigations.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 71 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The significant financial judgement and complexity areas in relation Internal Audit to the 2016 Group Financial Statements considered by the Audit Assess and approve Internal Audits annual work plan and ensure Committee, together with a summary of the actions taken, were that the Internal Audit function has sufficient resources and access to as follows: management to perform its role.
Review Internal Audit activities, significant recommendations and Impairment assessments findings and related management actions.
Management performed its annual impairment review for goodwill Review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
and other intangible assets with indefinite lives.
Key judgements included the allocation of these assets to cash generating units External Audit CGUs and groups of CGUs GCGUs as well as estimates of future Consider and make recommendations to the Board to put to business performance and cash generation, discount rates and Shareholders for their approval at the AGM regarding the long-term growth rates see Note 9 to the Group Financial appointment of the External Auditor.
The Audit Committee reviewed Monitor the rotation of the External Audit partner and manage the managements analysis, including the appropriateness of specific risk competitive tendering process of the audit services contract.
factors applied to individual and groups of CGUs, as well as the Review and monitor the External Auditors independence, objectivity adequacy of sensitivities applied.
As a result of this review, the Audit and effectiveness.
Committee confirmed that it was comfortable that no impairment Develop, implement and keep under review policy on non-audit was required and that the intangible assets with indefinite lives services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance.
Activities during 2016 Following a review of the Companys 2014 Report and Accounts, the Audit Committee meetings cover matters set out in its Terms of FRC Conduct Committee requested certain explanatory information Reference related to the reporting and audit cycle, including: half and from the Company in respect of preparation of the accounts, full year results: Internal and External Audit work plans and reports: including the determination of CGUs on a product rather than and regular updates from senior financial management and PwC.
geographical basis in goodwill impairment calculations.
The FRC was Recognising the importance of new accounting standards, in 2017 we satisfied with the Companys response and closed its enquiry.
The shall be looking in particular at the preparations for IFRS 15, revenue Company has undertaken to monitor internally if material goodwill from contacts with customers effective from 2018, and IFRS 16, leasing.
impairment would occur were a review carried out at a lower level than that of the operating segments, as required by IAS 36.
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements During the year, the Audit Committee assisted the Board with the Legal liability provisioning discharge of its responsibilities for financial reporting, including: At 31 December 2016, a provision of 329 million 2015: 141 reviewing and approving the appropriateness of the interim and million was held on the Groups Balance Sheet in relation to annual Financial Statements and related announcements: regulatory, civil and or criminal investigations by government recommending that, in the Audit Committees view, the Financial authorities as well as litigation proceedings and a provision in Statements were fair, balanced and understandable.
In addition to respect of the South Korea HS issue.
The Committee challenged the detailed preparation and verification procedures in place for the management on legal judgements made in determining the level of 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements, management provisioning and were satisfied with the level of provisioning.
continued its focus on narrative reporting and clear written and visual messaging to communicate the Groups strategy.
The Audit Tax provisioning Committee concluded that the disclosures contained in the Financial From time to time the Group may be involved in disputes in relation Statements and the underlying processes and controls were to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the world appropriate and recommended to the Board that the Annual Report where the approach of the authorities is particularly difficult to and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and predict.
The level of provisioning for these investigations is an issue understandable and provided the necessary information for where management and tax judgement are important.
The Shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Committee debated the key judgements made with management, business model and strategy: and including relevant professional advice that may have been received in reviewing the appropriateness of the accounting policies, judgements each case, and considers the tax provisioning levels to be appropriate.
and estimates used as set out on pages 110 to 114 and concluding that the judgements and assumptions used were reasonable.
Exceptional items The Committee considered the presentation of the Group Financial Statements and, in particular, the presentation of exceptional items and the items included within such measures.
The Audit Committee discussed this with management and agreed that the presentation provided meaningful information to Shareholders about the underlying performance of the Group.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 72 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Approved the External Auditors annual terms of engagement and Audit reviewed and updated the provision of non-audit services policy.
Approved and assessed the deployment of the External Audit plan.
Carried out pre-selection work in anticipation of the tender for Committee Report External Audit services which will be conducted during 2017.
Approved the Groups Internal Audit plan and risk controls and reviewed Internal Audit reports.
continued Reviewed ethical issues, including any fraudulent activity or reports raised under the whistleblowing procedure.
From November 2016, the CRSEC Committee has been responsible for ethical issues.
Reviewed tax and treasury matters, including provisioning and compliance with statutory reporting obligations.
External Auditor and the retender of External Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the Trade spend independence and objectivity of the External Auditor and the Trade spend remains a significant expense for the Group, and the effectiveness of the External Auditor and the audit process.
The Audit main judgements relate to trade accruals, specifically the timing and Committee approves the Auditors terms of engagement and reviews extent to which temporary promotional activity occurred.
The Audit the strategy and scope of the audit and the work plan.
RB has a formal Committee reviewed with management its assessment of the control policy in place to safeguard the External Auditors independence.
environment and the findings of Internal Audit relating to trade spend and considered that management operates an appropriate The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit services control environment which recognises the risks in this area.
undertaken by the External Auditor during the year to satisfy itself that there is no impact on its independence and is required to approve all Going concern and Viability Statement non-audit services over 250K.
The Board recognises that in certain A viability review was undertaken by management, encompassing circumstances the nature of the advice required may make it more timely its going concern review.
See Note 1 to the Group Financial and cost effective to appoint an auditor who already has a good Statements on page 110.
The Audit Committee reviewed the key understanding of RB.
The total fees paid to PwC for the year ended assumptions used by management in its viability review and going 31 December 2016 were 7.4 million, of which 1.3 million related concern assessment, as well as the scenarios applied and risks to non-audit work to which PwC was appointed principally for the considered.
Based on its review, the Audit Committee considers that above reasons.
Details of non-audit services are set out in Note 4 the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the on page 119.
Financial Statements was appropriate and confirmed the suitability of the Viability Statement covering the next five years as set out on Following the introduction of EU reforms, the Groups internal policy on page 46.
A five year period was selected as it is the period of the non-audit fees was revised during the year to reflect prohibited Groups long-term forecasting process and covers the various non-audit services, including all tax services provided to entities within business cycles.
This policy became effective as at 1 January 2017.
In anticipation of an External Audit tender being carried out in 2017, all services Risk management and internal control matters provided by PwC and the service providers identified by the Company In monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal in the pre-selection process are being carefully managed.
The policy controls, the Audit Committee reviewed compliance procedures and states that, on an annual basis, non-audit fees should not exceed 50% RBs overall risk framework including the Groups whistleblowing of the Groups External Audit and audit-related fees for the year.
The arrangements and considered operational risk and control processes.
Board confirms that, for the year ended 31 December 2016, non-audit There were no significant failings or weaknesses during the year fees were 21% of the audit and audit-related fees.
In the opinion of meriting disclosure in this report and the Audit Committee considers the Audit Committee, the relationship with the External Auditor works the internal control framework to be functioning appropriately.
well and the Audit Committee remains satisfied with its independence The Audit Committee also addressed the following specific matters and effectiveness.
during the year: Deep Dive risk and control reviews of non-compliance with quality The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and making standards, IT systems failure, legal and product non-compliance and recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment of the External taxation issues, as well as a review of the progress of the Groups Auditor and tendering of the External Audit contract.
The Audit global SAP programme.
Committee also monitors the rotation of the lead Audit Partner, who Reviewed the Groups major risk assessment process and gave detailed rotates every five years in accordance with best practice standards.
consideration to principal risks and internal control processes.
The current lead Audit Partner, Mark Gill, has just completed the fourth Kept abreast of changes in financial reporting and governance year of his five-year term.
matters by way of technical updates throughout the year, as well as discussions on relevant topical issues such as cyber security by way PwC was appointed as Auditor of Reckitt Benckiser plc in 2000, the year of spare chair briefing with an external specialist.
after the merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. in 1999.
At Engaged with senior executives and local management to receive the time of the merger, PwC was the auditor of Reckitt & Colman plc and discuss control reviews of the Groups ENA and DvM areas, and and Deloitte LLP was the auditor of Benckiser N. V. Post-merger, the China and the US.
Audit Committee at the time undertook a review and subsequently selected PwC as Auditor for the Group for the December 2000 year end.
There has been no subsequent audit tender.
PwC has been the Auditor of the Parent Company since the formation of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc in 2007.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 73 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Under the EU Directive on Audit Reform in respect of audit retenders Governance and rotation, and the Competition and Markets Authority Order on An independently facilitated external evaluation was carried out during mandatory audit tendering, we are required to appoint a different the year of both the Board and its committees by EquityCommunications auditor by the 2020 financial year end.
In the Annual Report and Limited.
Details can be found on page 65.
Matters reviewed by Accounts for the year ended 30 December 2015, the Committee Committee members included the appropriateness of the Audit disclosed that it had commenced a pre-selection process with a number Committees Terms of Reference, composition and skills, training and of audit firms in preparation for a possible audit tender in 2017, allowing number and length of meetings.
for the appointment of a new auditor at the 2018 AGM.
It remains the Committees intention to put a recommendation to Shareholders to The performance of the External Auditor was separately assessed by way appoint a new External Auditor for the year ending December 2018. of an internal questionnaire completed by members of the Audit Management and the Committee are working to ensure that there will Committee, Executive Directors and senior management.
Respondents be a seamless transition at that time.
The Committee has carried out were invited to rate PwCs effectiveness in a number of areas including detailed investigations during the year to identify those firms with quality, judgement, mindset and culture, skills and knowledge.
The sufficient geographical reach, experience, expertise in the consumer Committee also took into account the interaction with PwC at every products industry, that provide a good cultural fit and which were not Committee meeting and the FRC audit inspections of the big four firms.
conflicted by virtue of substantial ongoing non-audit work.
Following The review led to the conclusion by the Audit Committee that PwC and detailed reviews and preliminary meetings with potential firms, a the External Audit process were effective and that PwC provides a shortlist has been identified and firms have been asked to submit robust challenge of management actions.
This view was further proposals against a detailed invitation to tender.
reflected by the FRCs review of the audit files.
The Committee is satisfied that PwC remains independent and is best A new approach was adopted in 2016 for the Internal Audit placed to conduct the Companys audit for 2017 and the Board effectiveness review.
Direct post-audit feedback was received and this concluded on the Audit Committees recommendation, that it was in the was followed by a questionnaire targeted at: Audit Committee best interests of the Shareholders to appoint PwC for a further year.
members, Executive Committee members and functional heads.
The PwC has expressed its willingness to continue as External Auditor of the evaluation of the Internal Audit function, which covered performance, Company.
Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee, and in plan and resources, indicated that the reviewers appreciated the quality accordance with section 489 CA 2006, resolutions to propose the and capability of the Internal Audit team which assisted with the reappointment of PwC as the Companys External Auditor and to improvement of internal controls and processes through the Group, and authorise the Audit Committee to fix its remuneration will be put to the that they were satisfied with the service level provided.
The Audit Shareholders at the AGM.
Committee considered the effectiveness review and the work carried out by the Internal Audit function as reported at every Committee The Committee is pleased to note that PwCs 2015 audit files were meeting and concluded that it was an effective operation.
reviewed by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team in the year and no significant issues were raised.
Compliance The Audit Committee is exclusively responsible on behalf of the Board Internal Auditor for matters relating to the appointment of the Auditor and for the year The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the ended 31 December 2016 the Company has complied with the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The Head of Internal Audit Competition and Markets Authority Order: The Statutory Services for reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and to the CFO for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive administrative matters and updates the Audit Committee at each Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. meeting.
The Internal Audit department is responsible for impartially assessing the key risks of the organisation and appraising and reporting on the adequacy and effectiveness of RBs risk management and internal controls in financial, information systems and other business and operational areas to develop and improve the effectiveness of the Groups risk management control and governance processes and strategies.
RBs identified Group major risks and their mitigating controls are described in detail on pages 46 to 53.
The annual Internal Audit plan is prepared under an agreed cover and scope policy and reflects a risk-based approach.
Designated audit locations are determined at the start of each year following a risk and control assessment of each commercial and supply unit.
Information systems and Head Office locations also fall within Internal Audits remit and are subject to audit.
Following each audit, findings are reviewed and reported to management and to the Audit Committee, together with recommendations and updates.
Resulting management actions and progress are tracked until a report is satisfactorily closed.
In 2016, routine Internal Audit work covered 63% by Net Revenue of RBs global commercial business and 53% by industrial sales of global manufacturing facilities.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements
