STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 71 70 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT THE COMMITTEES PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES LIE IN REVIEWING THE GROUPS FINANCIAL REPORTING, OVERSEEING THE APPOINTMENT AND WORK OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS AND REVIEWING REDROWS INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESSES GOVERNANCE REPORT reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of In addition the Committee also reviews the However following the Order of the Competition COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS systems for internal control, financial reporting findings of PwCs testing of pension scheme and Markets Authority in relation to FTSE 350 The four Members of the Committee are and risk management: assets and liabilities.
companies the Company will be required to Independent Non-Executive Directors and the change its statutory auditor by June 2020.
The Board believes the Committee has the appropriate reviewing and overseeing the effectiveness of MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Committee has had initial discussions regarding level of experience to fulfil its Terms of Reference.
Internal Audit: its future policy, strategy and timing for tendering The Committee followed a programme which is making recommendations to the Board in The Group Finance Director and Finance of the external Audit.
structured around the annual reporting cycle and relation to the appointment and removal of Director Group Services attend meetings by received reports from Internal Audit, the external external Auditors and approving the The Committee has a formal policy in respect of invitation and both were present at all the Audit and management.
remuneration and terms of engagement: and the work of the external Auditors.
The purpose of meetings in the year ended 30 June 2016.
The The principal activities undertaken are shown in this policy is to ensure that the Auditors NICK HEWSON external Auditors,  LLP reviewing and monitoring the external Audit Table 1 below.
objectivity and independence is maintained by PwC, and the Finance Director Operations who Chairman of the process and independent activity of the Auditors ensuring both that the nature of any non-audit Audit Committee has responsibility for Internal Audit, were also in as well as the nature and scope of the external AUDIT INDEPENDENCE work undertaken and the level of fees paid does attendance at all meetings.
PwC were appointed Auditors in 1999 having not compromise the Auditors position.
The Committee met three times in the year ended succeeded Coopers & Lybrand who were appointed The Committees Terms of Reference are available Appointments in respect of non-audit work 30 June 2016 and a summary of the principal in 1987.
The current Audit Partner from PwC on the Companys website www.
require the prior approval of the Committee activities of the Committee are listed below.
commenced his tenure following the conclusion within an established budget.
In addition, no AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORTING ON of the year ended 30 June 2015 audit.
Detailed papers and information were circulated work can be undertaken by the external Auditors SIGNIFICANT ISSUES sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper in any area where there is any identifiable risk At its meeting in February 2016 the committee The primary areas of judgement which were consideration of the matters for discussion.
The that the work of an individual within the external considered whether to retain PwC as auditor and considered by the Committee and how these Committee also met separately with the external Audit firm or the external Audit firm generally concluded that, in view of the quality of service were addressed is set out below.
Auditors and Internal Audit following the final audit could conflict or compromise the quality, provided and the cost effectiveness of the work and the review of the year ended 30 June 2016 objectivity or independence of any audit or carried out, it would be appropriate to retain them.
Net realisable value of inventories financial statements.
No matters of concern were compliance work undertaken for the Group.
The Committee receives a paper prepared by The Committee does not currently have a formal raised within these discussions.
The Committee management at each reporting date outlining the policy on re-tendering of the external Audit.
Chairman also met privately with the Engagement approach taken by management to assess the net Partner of the external Auditors and the Finance realisable value of inventories together with Director Operations to discuss Internal Audit TABLE 1 details of sites with significant areas of judgement.
The Group Company Secretary acts as The Group Finance Director and Finance Director September 2015 A review of the full year 2015 results, including the Annual Report and a report from the external Auditors: Secretary to the Committee.
Group Services attend meetings by invitation to and consideration of the Group risk assessment process and a going concern review.
answer any questions the Committee may have.
February 2016 A review of the 2016 half-yearly accounts and going concern including a report from the external Auditors: Table of Attendance A review of the Terms of Reference of the Committee: The Committee also annually reviews the A review of the proposed external Audit strategy for 2016 and associated fees: internal controls that are in place and reviews Name Role Attendance at Meetings A review of the effectiveness of the external Audit process: the findings of PwCs testing of controls and Nick Hewson Chairman 3 3 processes for estimating as well as the adequacy A review of the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors: and Debbie Hewitt Member 3 3 of disclosures that management propose to be A review of the Committees effectiveness.
Liz Peace Member 3 3 June 2016 A review of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: Sir Michael Lyons Member 3 3 A review of the Risk Register: Defined benefit pension scheme valuation A review of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy: The Committee receives details of the IAS 19R A review of the Groups Anti-Bribery Policy: Employee Benefits valuations carried out at each reporting date for management by the actuary A review of internal controls across the whole business: RESPONSIBILITIES AND TERMS OF REFERENCE who advises the Company and the underlying The key responsibilities of the Committee are: An update on Internal Audit, its strategy and a review of the Internal Audit timetable for 2017: and assumptions.
A sensitivity analysis is also provided Initial discussions regarding the future tendering of the external Audit in compliance with the Order of the Competition monitoring the integrity of the financial for its consideration.
The Committee also receives and Markets Authority.
statements of the accompanying reports to details of the triennial independent scheme September 2016 A review of the full year 2016 results, including the Annual Report and a report from the external Auditors: the shareholders and Corporate Governance valuation report prepared by the Scheme Actuary and consideration of the Group risk assessment process and a going concern review.
Statements including reviewing the findings and reviews key judgement areas made including of external Auditors: relevant actuarial advice that has been received.
STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 73 72 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED GOVERNANCE REPORT The external Auditors are not indemnified by the Redrow has an in-house Health and Safety The internal controls extended to the financial best practice and sharing it across the Group Company nor has the Company purchased liability Department and places great emphasis on reporting process and the preparation of and identifying business process improvements.
the importance of health and safety and consolidated financial statements.
The basis Committee Members receive an Executive environment management.
The department for the preparation of consolidated financial Summary of each Business Process Review report.
Details of fees paid to PwC are disclosed on works closely with the Divisions to ensure statements has been undertaken in accordance page 111.
WHISTLEBLOWING that training is provided to employees and with the Groups Accounting policies as set out subcontractors.
Best practice is shared and on pages 106 to 110.
The Group has a widely publicised INTERNAL CONTROLS appropriate actions are taken to comply with Whistleblowing Policy which enables employees The Board of Directors recognises its overall The Committee therefore confirms that it is health and safety best practice and legislation and other stakeholders to raise concerns in responsibility for the Groups system of internal satisfied that the system of controls has been throughout the organisation: confidence.
The Committee has arranged to control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
There in operation throughout the financial year and receive reports on all occasions when such issues the Board requires each Director in its is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating up to the date of this report.
are raised under this policy.
The Whistleblowing operating divisions to complete an annual and managing significant risks.
However, in Policy is formally reviewed and approved each statement on Corporate Governance and RISK REGISTER reviewing the effectiveness of internal control, year by the Committee.
The statement any internal control system can only provide The Group formally reviews its prioritised Risk is designed to provide assurance that Group reasonable but not absolute assurance against Register every year.
The updated and reviewed BRIBERY ACT policies and procedures are being implemented material misstatement or loss.
Risk Register is then discussed and approved by Following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010 and complied with in all material respects: the Committee.
In addition, the Executive Board, the Company put in place a policy on bribery and Key business activities, including finance, land key functional Directors complete a Principal through its regular meetings, reviews key areas of corruption for all employees to strictly adhere to.
acquisition, product design and procurement and Controls Self-Assessment Questionnaire which risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the The Company Secretary ensures that the policy is information technology are controlled by the is reviewed by the Board to assist in internal controls identified in relation to those complied with, updates the policy, procedures and Executive Directors.
All activity is organised within a improvements in the control framework: risks remain appropriate.
company code of practice as and when required defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, a weekly business report WBR comprising sales and provides regular reports to the Committee.
designated authority levels and a structured INSURANCE funnel information, gross margins and order The Bribery Act policy is formally reviewed and reporting framework.
A formalised reporting The Board has appointed an experienced broker book is produced for the Group, each Division approved each year by the Committee.
structure is established within Redrow.
The to advise on and co-ordinate all insurance matters and each site and circulated across the Group: Executive Directors, the Company Secretary, across the Group and they liaise closely with Training is given to all staff to highlight the various a monthly reporting pack is circulated in Regional Chief Executives, Group Human Resources appropriate Redrow personnel at Head Office forms of bribery and all new staff attend an advance and reviewed at each of the Main, Director, Group Sales and Marketing Director and and within the Divisions and report directly to induction course at the commencement of their Executive and Divisional Board meetings.
Group Development Director the Executive Board the Group Finance Director.
employment which includes a section relating to Annual budgets are set, with actual performance meet monthly to discuss the Groups key issues, bribery and the implication on individuals and the compared against the annual budget: risks and opportunities.
The Divisions also hold RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL AUDIT company of an act of bribery either given or monthly board meetings which are attended on a preparation and regular updates of Strategic Plans: received.
Every year, through its new internal The Groups Risk Register defines controls as rotational basis by the Executive Directors.
e-learning facility, each employee will be required preventative or detective and identifies owners a policy and procedures manual which covers all to complete a mandatory compliance test which for each high level risk.
Feedback on the risks and The key features of the Groups internal controls the significant aspects of the Groups operations reminds each employee of their obligations.
controls is actively encouraged and is facilitated by are as follows: and describes the systems and controls that are links on the Groups intranet to ensure the risks to be applied: and defined authorisation levels exist over key areas PERFORMANCE EVALUATION listed remain relevant and accurate.
The Register daily statements of a reconciled cash position such as land purchase, the placing of orders and itself is regularly maintained and is reviewed by The Committee completed a performance identifying significant payments are prepared, contracts and staff recruitment: the Committee annually.
evaluation during the Financial Year and a report rolling cash flow forecasts are prepared and was presented to the Committee and discussed.
a comprehensive prioritised Risk Register which forecast banking covenant compliance are tested.
The Internal Audit strategy is discussed with PwC The Committee was found to be effective and it is regularly reviewed and presented to the and discussed and agreed with the Committee.
was concluded that the Committee had fulfilled Audit Committee: Throughout the year, the Committee has carried Suggested control improvements and any control its remit and had in place appropriate Terms out assessments of internal control by considering the Groups management information weaknesses identified are followed up as of Reference.
documentation from the Executive Directors systems provide weekly updates on key appropriate.
The cornerstone of the Internal and the internal audit function as well as taking statistics and information in respect of sales Audit work undertaken is the Business Process into consideration events since the year end.
and production and the content of these Reviews.
A risk-based programme was designed Nick Hewson weekly reports is regularly reviewed to based on the Risk Register.
The Business Process Chairman of the Audit Committee ensure it remains appropriate: Review programme looks to provide assurance to the Group, by testing internal controls and 5 September 2016 reviewing specific risks, as well as seeking out
