Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Report of the Audit Committees 105 Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of reviewed and discussed areas of significant judgement in the preparation of the financial statements, including in particular: RELXPLC and RELX NV in conjunction with the Audit Committee of RELX Group plc the Committees and has been approved by the i. the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets the respective Boards.
It provides an overview of the membership, significant judgements in respect of asset carrying values responsibilities and activities of the Committees.
The RELX PLC relate to the assumptions underlying the value in use and RELX NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles from the calculations including discount rates and long-term growth perspective of the parent companies and both Committees have assumptions.
The Committees received and discussed access to the reports to and the work of the RELX Group plc Audit reports from the RELX Financial Controller on the methodology and the basis of the assumptions used: Committee in this respect.
capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets thecapitalisation of costs related to the development of new Membership products and business infrastructure, together with the useful economic lives applied to the resulting assets, requires the The Committees comprise at least three independent exercise of judgement.
The Committees received reports Non-Executive Directors.
The members of each of the from the RELX Financial Controller on the amounts Committees who served during the year were: capitalised and asset lives selected for major projects: Ben van der Veer Chairman of the Committees iii.
uncertain tax positions assessing potential liabilities across numerous jurisdictions is complex and requires Adrian Hennah judgement in making tax determinations.
The Committees Linda Sanford received and discussed reports from the RELX Head of Marike van Lier Lels Taxation on the potential liabilities identified and Carol Mills from 21 April 2016. judgements applied: iv.
reviewed the recognition of certain pension scheme Adrian Hennah, a UK chartered accountant, and Ben van liabilities which are subject to judgement.
The Committees derVeer, a registered accountant in the Netherlands, received and discussed reports from the RELX Financial areconsidered to have significant, recent and relevant Controller on the methodology and the basis financial experience.
of the assumptions used: reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance withapplicable accounting standards and other disclosure Responsibilities requirements and received regular update reports on The main role and responsibilities of the Committees are accounting and regulatory developments: toassist the respective Boards in fulfilling their oversight received and considered the Financial Reporting Councils responsibilities regarding: audit quality review of Deloittes audit of the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
There were the integrity of the Groups interim and full year financial no significant findings from the review: statements and financial reporting processes: reviewed the disclosures made in relation to internal control, risk management and internal controls, and the risk management, the going concern statement and the effectiveness of the internal auditors: and viability statement.
The Committees received and discussed the performance of the external auditors and the reports from the RELX Head of Audit and Risk and the RELX effectiveness of the external audit process, including Treasurer on the processes undertaken and assumptions used monitoring the independence and objectivity of Ernst in formulating these disclosures: and &Young.
considered whether the Annual Report taken as a whole was The Committees report to the respective Boards on their fair, balanced and understandable.
activities, identifying any matters in respect of which they The Committees also received detailed written and verbal reports consider that action or improvement is needed and making from the external auditors on these matters.
The Committees were recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
satisfied with the explanations provided and conclusions reached.
The terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed annually and a copy of each is published on the Groups Risk management and internal controls website, www.
com With respect to their oversight of risk management and internal controls, the Committees have: Committee meetings received and discussed regular reports summarising the The Committees met five times during 2016.
The Audit Committee status of the Groups risk management activities, including meetings are typically attended by the RELX Chief Executive actions to mitigate risks, and the findings from internal audit Officer, theRELX Chief Financial Officer, the RELX Financial reviews and the actions agreed with management.
Areas of Controller, theRELX Chief Legal Officer, the RELX Head of Audit focus in 2016 included: operational and financial controls: and Risk, andaudit partners from the external auditors.
regulatory compliance: business continuity planning: review ofinformation security including the management of data Financial reporting privacy: post acquisition integration: and continued compliance In discharging their responsibilities in respect of the 2016 interim with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley and full year financial statements, the Committees have: Act relating to the documentation and testing of internal controls over financial reporting: 106 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2017 and The external auditors have confirmed their independence and monitored execution of the 2016 plan, including progress in compliance with the Group policy on auditor independence to the respect of recommendations made: Audit Committees.
reviewed the resources, terms of reference and effectiveness of Ernst &Young LLP and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP were first the RELX Group plc risk management and internal audit functions: appointed auditors of the parent companies and RELX Group plc for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
The auditors are received presentations from: the RELX Chief Compliance required to rotate the lead audit partners responsible for the audit Officer on the compliance programmes, including the engagements every five years.
The year ended 31 December 2016 operation of the Groups codes of conduct, training was the first year for the lead engagement partners for RELX PLC programmes and whistleblowing arrangements and the and RELX NV.
RELXChief Legal Officer on legal issues andclaims: received reports from the RELXChief Strategy Officer The Committees have conducted their review of the performance andChief Legal Officer on information security and other of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit technology-related risks: process for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The review was based received updates from the RELX Treasurer on pension on a survey of key stakeholders across the Group, consideration arrangements and funding, treasury policies and risk of public reports by regulatory authorities on key Ernst & Young management and compliance with treasury policies: member firms and the quality of the auditors reporting to and interaction with the Audit Committees.
Based on this review, the received presentations from the RELX Head of Taxation on tax AuditCommittees were satisfied with the performance of the policies and related matters: auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
received regular updates from the RELX Chief Financial Officer on developments within the finance function: and Change of external auditor received presentations from chief financial officers of Following a competitive audit tender process in 2015, Ernst & major businesses including a presentation on the accounting Young LLP and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP were appointed shared services centre.
as external auditors for the year ended 31 December 2016, replacing Deloitte, at the Annual General Meetings of RELX PLC External audit effectiveness and RELX NV in April 2016.
The Audit Committees had primary The Group has a well-established policy on audit effectiveness responsibility for the appointment of the auditor and made the and independence of auditors that sets out inter alia: the recommendation on appointment that went to the Board.
As responsibilities of each Audit Committee in the selection of such, the Audit Committees confirm that they were in compliance auditors to be proposed for appointment or re-appointment and with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large for agreement on the terms of their engagement, scope and Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive remuneration: the auditor independence requirements and the Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order policy on the provision of non-audit services: the rotation of audit 2014 during the financial year ended 31 December 2016. partners and staff: and the conduct of meetings between the auditors and the Audit Committees.
This policy has been updated The Committees have monitored the audit transition process to reflect the Financial Reporting Council's Revised Ethical throughout 2016 and have assessed the effectiveness of the audit Standard 2016 and Revised Guidance on Audit Committees 2016, process to ensure a smooth transition from the former auditors.
including an update to expand the list of prohibited non-audit services.
The policy is available on the website, Audit Committee effectiveness The effectiveness of the Audit Committees was reviewed as www.
com part of the 2016 evaluation of the Boards which confirmed that The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit the Committees continue to function effectively.
Details of the services that would compromise their independence or violate evaluation are set out on page 75. any professional requirements or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide non-audit services which do not conflict with their independence, Ben van der Veer and where their skills and experience make them a logical Chairman of the Audit Committees supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Audit Committees.
22 February 2017 Non-audit services performed in the Netherlands are limited to audit assurance activities.
The Committees will continue to review the policy on the provision of non-audit services in the light of ongoing regulatory developments.
The Committees have, each quarter, reviewed and agreed the non-audit services provided in 2016, together with the associated fees which are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
The non-audit services provided were in the areas of audit-related activities such as royalty assurance, tax advice and compliance, due diligence and other transaction-related services.
