Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance 79 A Disclosure Committee, comprising the Company Secretaries of US certificates RELX PLC and RELX NV and other senior managers of the Group, As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 provides assurance to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief andby related rules issued by the US Securities and Exchange Financial Officer regarding their Section 302 certifications.
Commission the Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the Chief Financial Officer of RELX PLC and RELX NV certify in the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of RELX PLC respective Annual Reports 2016 on Form 20-F to be filed with the and RELX NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports 2016 on Commission that they are responsible for establishing and Form 20-F that they are responsible for maintaining adequate maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and that they internal control structures and procedures for financial reporting have: and toconduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
The designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures and material information relating to the Group is made known to them financial reporting procedures, which are unqualified, are presented intheRELX Group Annual Report 2016 on Form 20-F. evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management or other employees who have a significant role in the Groups internal controls presented in the RELX Group Annual Report 2016 on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures Viability statement Each year management develops a three-year strategy plan that to access the debt capital markets to refinance scheduled reflects the expected operating environment.
This plan forms the liabilities as they become due.
Reflecting the importance of basis for Group and divisional targets.
In 2016, our strategy is proprietary data and potential disruption or loss of data unchanged.
Our objective is to deliver improved outcomes for sources, we modelled the impact of a worst-case scenario professional and business customers across industries, to help assuming the invalidation of certain intellectual property them make better decisions, get better results and be more rights and inability to use certain third-party information.
We do this by leveraging a deep understanding of our analysis concluded that even with the simultaneous customers to develop increasingly sophisticated  of these risks and no access to the debt capital based analytics and decision tools which combine content and markets, the Group would still have sufficient funds to trade, data with analytics and technology in global platforms.
We aim to settle its liabilities as they come due and remain compliant with build leading positions in long-term global growth markets and its financial covenants.
leverage our skills, assets and resources, both to build solutions In addition to scenario modelling, the Directors bi-annually for our customers and to pursue cost efficiencies.
Further details review the Groups principal risks, assess the likelihood and on our strategy and 2016 progress are on pages 4 and 5.
Whilst impact of each risk together with the effectiveness of mitigating management selected three years for its review and quantitative controls.
The Directors also receive regular updates from testing of the Groups viability, reflecting the length of the annual management on treasury, tax, acquisitions and divestments strategy plan period, it also considered longer-term and periodic briefings on significant risk areas including developments.
information security, technology and legal and regulatory The three-year strategic plan for our businesses includes matters.
Finally, separate from the annual strategy plan, the managements assessment of the anticipated operational risks Directors periodically receive updates from business area affecting the business and assumes that current economic management on their operations, prospects and risks.
Whilst conditions broadly persist, financing will be available on similar these reviews and discussions naturally focus more closely on terms to those negotiated recently and interest rates will follow the quantifiable risks facing the business, they also cover risks market expectations.
Management then considers the viability of that may occur outside of the three-year planning period.
the business should unexpected events arise.
A full description of As a result of stress-testing the three-year strategic plan and the principal risks facing our business is set out on pages 60 to 63 supported by regular reviews of risk during the year, the along with the mitigating controls.
In assessing viability, a Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that cross-functional team comprised of business unit, risk, strategy the Group will be able to continue its operations and meet its and treasury personnel estimate the quantitative impact of each liabilities as they fall due over the next three years and are not individual risk on the Groups revenue and profit.
aware of any longer-term operational or strategic risks that The analysis then considers the effect of various sets of multiple would result in a different outcome from the three-year review.
risks occurring simultaneously, combined with the inability
