78 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 RELX Group plc has an established framework of procedures and interests and if shareholder returns could be increased.
The internal control, with which the management of each business is objective of these systems of internal control and risk required to comply.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters management is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of that are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Group operates failure toachieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only authorisation and approval processes throughout all of its provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material operations.
Access controls exist where processes have been misstatement or loss.
The Boards have confirmed, subject to the automated to ensure the security of data.
Management information above, that as regards financial reporting risks, the respective systems have been developed to identify risks and to enable risk management and control systems provide reasonable assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
assurance against material inaccuracies or loss and have functioned properly during the year.
RELX Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business goals and requires officers and employees to behave in an open, honest, ethical Responsibilities in respect of the andprincipled manner.
The Code also outlines confidential financialstatements procedures enabling employees to report any concerns about compliance, or about the Groups financial reporting practice.
The Directors of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc are TheCode is available on our website at www.
com required to prepare financial statements as at the end of each financial period, in accordance with applicable law and regulations, Each business area has identified and evaluated its principal risks, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, and of the profit the controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of or loss, of the respective companies and their subsidiaries, joint residual risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures ventures and associates.
They are responsible for maintaining are embedded into the operations of the business and include the proper accounting records, for safeguarding assets, and for taking monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for selecting suitable accounting The principal risks facing RELX Group businesses are regularly policies and applying them on a consistent basis, and making reported to and assessed by the Board and Audit Committee.
judgements and estimates that are prudent and reasonable.
Withthe close involvement of business management and central Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the RELX functions, the risk management and control procedures ensure Group consolidated financial statements, which are the that the Group is managing its business risks effectively and in responsibility of the Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV, are acoordinated manner across the businesses with clarity on the prepared using accounting policies which comply with International respective responsibilities and interdependencies.
Litigation Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International andother legal regulatory matters are managed by legal directors Accounting Standards Board and as adopted by the European Union.
Having taken into account all of the matters considered by the The RELX Group plc Audit Committee receives regular reports on Boards and brought to the attention of the Boards, the Directors the identification and management of principal risks, and reviews are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the from both internal and external auditors on internal control and information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups risk management matters.
In addition, each business area is position and performance, business model and strategy.
required, at the end of the financial year, to review the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and report its findings on a detailed basis to the management of RELX Going concern Group plc.
These reports are summarised and, as part of the The Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV, having made appropriate annual review of effectiveness, submitted to the Audit Committee.
enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the Group The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any tocontinue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and significant internal control matters arising.
that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis inpreparing the 2016 financial statements.
In reaching these Annual review conclusions, the Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV have had due As part of the year-end procedures, the Audit Committees and regard to the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2016, Boards reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal the strong free cash flow of the Group, the Groups ability to access control and risk management, during the 2016 financial year.
This capital markets and the principal risks facing the Group.
included consideration of risk appetite defined as the Group's willingness to take on risk for each principal risk.
Risk appetite is A commentary on the Groups cash flows, financial position and based on an assessment of the level of residual risk, taking liquidity for the year ended 31 December 2016 is set out in the Chief account of inherent risk and mitigation effort.
The assessment is Financial Officers report on pages 54 to 59.
This shows that after rated, in relation to the Group's objectives for the current level of taking account of available cash resources and committed bank residual risk, in three broad categories: reduce, accept and willing facilities that back up short-term borrowings, all of the Groups to extend.
The level of residual risk which the Group is prepared to borrowings that mature within the next two years can be covered.
accept will vary, with a high level of mitigation effort over The Groups policies on liquidity, capital management and operational, financial and compliance risks.
The residual risk level management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange for external and strategic risks may be extended if doing so is in andcredit exposures are set out on pages 150 to 154.
The principal line with the Group's strategic objectives, values and stakeholder risks facing the Group are set out on pages 60 to 63.
