80 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Report of the Nominations Committee This report has been prepared by the joint Nominations the review of the composition of the Audit Committees and Committee of RELX PLC and RELX NV and has been approved by Remuneration Committee, following the changes to the Boards the respective Boards.
which took place in April 2016 succession planning for Non-Executive Directors Membership Composition and diversity of the Boards The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
The The Committee seeks to ensure that the Boards and their members of the Committee who served during the year were: Committees comprise an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of RELX Groups Anthony Habgood Committee Chairman businesses, and diversity, including gender.
The Committee has Lisa Hook until 21 April 2016 established a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the recruitment of candidates to the Boards and recommendations by Ben van der Veer the Committee are made principally on the basis of a candidates Wolfhart Hauser merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity.
The Committee recognises the benefits that diversity on the Boards can bring and continues to meet its target of the Boards being comprised of at least 30% women.
The Responsibilities Committee will continue to monitor developments in relation to The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are to Board diversity.
Details of the Groups approach to diversity and provide assistance to the Boards by identifying individuals inclusion more generally in its workforce can be found in the qualified to become Directors and recommending to the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 46.
Boards the appointment of such individuals.
The Two Non-Executive Directors, Robert MacLeod and Carol Mills, responsibilities of the Committee are set out in written Terms were appointed to the Boards in April 2016.
The Committee of Reference available at www.
com and include: retained Kingsley Gate Partners LLP and The Zygos Partnership, to keep under review the size and composition of the independent recruitment consultancies specialising in Boards non-executive appointments with no other connection to to develop and agree the specification for the recruitment RELX Group, to carry out the search for these new Non-Executive of new Directors Directors.
Following a rigorous and transparent process of assessments and interviews, the Committee recommended to the to procure the recruitment of new Directors Boards that Robert MacLeod and Carol Mills be proposed for to recommend to the Boards the appointment of candidates election as Non-Executive Directors at the Annual General subject, where appropriate, to the approval of shareholders Meetings in April 2016.
As part of the selection process, the of RELX PLC and RELX NV Committee considered, among other things, their ability to devote sufficient time to the role of Non-Executive Director, to recommend Directors to serve on the Committees of the Mr MacLeod's and Ms Mills' existing external interests, and their Boards, having regard to the criteria for service on each independence as defined under the UK Code.
Committee as set out in the Terms of Reference for such Committees, and to recommend members to serve as the The charts on page 73 illustrate in more detail the composition of Chair of those Committees the Boards.
to make recommendations to the Boards in relation to the Conflicts of interest election or re-election of Directors at the Annual General During the year, the Committee monitored Directors conflicts of Meetings of RELX PLC and RELX NV interest in respect of their external appointments, and undertook to review and make recommendations to the Boards in an annual review of these.
No actual conflicts were identified.
relation to any Directors actual or potential conflicts of However, situations were identified which could potentially give interest rise to a conflict of interest, and the Boards authorised those situations and put in place appropriate procedures to manage any potential conflicts at the recommendation of the Committee.
More Activities of the Committee information on conflicts of interest can be found in the RELX PLC During the year, the Committee met three times and its main areas Directors Report on page 172. of focus were: the appointments of Robert MacLeod and Carol Mills as Director re-elections Non-Executive Directors The Committee reviewed the results of the evaluation of the effectiveness and performance of the Boards, their Committees the re-appointment of Wolfhart Hauser as a Non-Executive and the individual Directors, which had been overseen by the Director, and his appointment as the Senior Independent Corporate Governance Committee.
Details of the 2016 17 Board Director in April 2016 evaluation can be found on page 75.
Following this review, the the re-appointment of Marike van Lier Lels as a Non-Executive Committee recommended that each Director on the Boards as at Director of RELX NV 31 December 2016 be put forward for re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meetings.
