Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance 71 Corporate Governance Corporate governance compliance and statements Corporate Governance RELX PLC, which has its primary listing on the main market of Corporate structure the London Stock Exchange, has complied with the provisions RELX PLC is a publicly-listed holding company with its shares of the UK Code during the year ended 31 December 2016. traded on the London and New York stock exchanges.
Its principal asset is the shares that it owns in RELX Group plc, which RELX NV, which has its primary listing on the Euronext represent 52.9% of the outstanding shares of RELX Group plc.
Amsterdam Stock Exchange, has also complied throughout the year with the UK Code.
RELX NV is a publicly-listed holding company with its shares traded on the Euronext Amsterdam and New York stock A description of how both RELX PLC and RELX NV have applied exchanges.
Its principal asset is the shares that it owns in the main principles of the UK Code is set out on pages 72 to 79.
RELX Group plc, which represent 47.1% of the outstanding shares A copy of the UK Code can be found on the FRC website at of RELX Group plc.
uk RELX Group plc holds all of the operating businesses, subsidiaries For information on the application of the Dutch Code by RELX and financing activities of the Group.
The Groups corporate NV, please see the Corporate Governance Statement of RELX structure is shown below: NV which is available on our website, www.
com The Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV are required by the UK RELX NV RELX PLC Code to make certain statements in relation to provisions contained in the UK Code.
The locations of those statements are 52.9% 47.1% set out as follows: RELX Group plc Page 78 for confirmation that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and RELX PLC and RELX NV each have equal voting rights in performance, business model and strategy RELX Group plc.
Page 78 for the statement on the status of the Group as a going RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, concern associates and joint ventures are together known as RELX Group.
Pages 2 to 63 for the Strategic Report explaining the Groups business model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group Approach to corporate governance The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV have implemented Page 60 for confirmation that the Directors have carried out a standards of corporate governance and disclosure policies robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, applicable to companies listed on the London, Amsterdam and including those that would threaten its business model, future New York stock exchanges.
The effect of this is that a standard performance, solvency or liquidity applying to one will, where not in conflict, also be observed by Page 79 for an explanation of how the Directors have assessed the other.
the prospects of the Group, taking into account the Groups current position and its principal risks.
The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV support the principles and provisions of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the UK Code and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code 2008 the Dutch Code.
The UK Financial Reporting Council FRC published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code in April 2016 the 2016 UK Code, which applies to RELX Group for the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2017.
The Boards expect to comply in full with the 2016 UK Code during the 2017 reporting period.
The Dutch Monitoring Committee published a revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code in December 2016, which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, and will be reported on in2018.
