72 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 The Boards Roles of the Directors Board composition Chairman The Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc the Boards Leads the Boards, ensuring they function efficiently are unitary boards and are comprised of the same Directors.
The Promotes high standards of corporate governance names of each Director, their role on the Boards and their Sets the agenda and chairs meetings of the Boards biographical details as at the date of this report appear on pages 66 Chairs the Nominations and Corporate Governance and 67.
The Boards currently comprise the Chairman, two Executive Committees Directors and seven independent Non-Executive Directors, who bring a wide range of skills and experience to their roles.
The charts Facilitates effective contribution of all of the Directors on page 73 illustrate in more detail the composition of the Boards.
Ensures effective dialogue with shareholders A profile which identifies the skills and experience of each Ensures the performance of the Boards is assessed annually Director is available on our website at www.
com Ensures effective induction and development of Directors Role of the Boards and delegated authorities Chief Executive Officer The Boards role is to provide leadership of the Group within a Day-to-day management of the Group framework of appropriate and effective controls that enable risk Develops the Groups strategy and commercial objectives to be assessed, and then managed in a manner which safeguards Ensures that the strategy and decisions of the Boards are the interests of shareholders.
The Boards have therefore put in implemented place a framework of responsibilities and delegated authorities.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Boards, which Promotes high standards of corporate governance includes the consideration and approval of material acquisitions, Informs and advises the Chairman and Nominations major capital expenditure, Group strategy and budgets, the Committee on executive succession planning Groups financial statements and its dividend policy.
The Boards Leads communication with shareholders have established a number of Committees, to which certain powers have been delegated, and these are set out in the Terms of Chief Financial Officer Reference for each Committee which can be found on our website Day-to-day management of the Group's financial affairs at www.
The roles of the Committees are also summarised on page 76.
There are additionally a number of Ensures that a robust system of internal control and risk approved delegated authorities in place from the Boards to the management is in place Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives which relate Maintains high quality reporting of financial and principally to the day-to-day management of the business.
environmental performance internally and externally Role of the Directors division of responsibilities Supports the Chief Executive Officer in developing and There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the implementing strategy Chief Executive Officer, which are set out in writing.
The adjacent table illustrates the key responsibilities of the Directors.
This Senior Independent Director division of responsibilities, in addition to the schedule of matters Leads the annual Boards assessment of the performance reserved for the Boards and Terms of Reference for each of the Chairman Committee, ensures that there are controls in place to prevent any Available to meet with shareholders on matters where individual from having unfettered powers of decision.
usual channels are deemed inappropriate Deputises for the Chairman, as necessary Acts as an intermediary between the other Directors Non-Executive Directors Constructively challenge and provide advice to the Executive Directors Effectively contribute to the development of strategy Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and monitor the delivery of Group strategy Serve as members of Board Committees and chair the Audit and Remuneration Committees Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance 73 BALANCE OF EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GENDER DIVERSITY Executive: 2 Female: 3 Chairman: 1 Male: 7 Non-Executive: 7 LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NATIONALITY OF DIRECTORS Swedish: 1 German: 1 Less than three years: 2 Dutch: 2 Seven to nine years: 3 British: 4 American: 2 Three to six years: 3 Percentage of the Non-Executive Directors Areas of significant skills and expertise of the Non-Executive Directors on the Boards Knowledge of corporate governance issues for listed companies 100% Operational experience in the Groups main geographical markets 100% Human resource management and executive remuneration 100% Corporate responsibility 100% Corporate strategy and organisation 100% Marketing and customer relations 75% Financial and organisational audit 75% Executive board experience in a large international listed company 75% Operational experience in the telecommunications and information technology sectors 75% Legal matters 63% Banking, tax and corporate finance 50% Operational experience in the Groups product markets 38% 74 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Key activities of the Boards As a general rule, Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Boards hold regular scheduled meetings throughout the year, provide that individuals serve for an initial term of three years, and and in 2016 held seven scheduled meetings.
The Boards are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although the schedules ensure that all relevant matters are considered during Boards may invite an individual to serve for an additional period of those meetings.
The schedule is set by the Chairman, with support three years.
The notice period applicable to Non-Executive Directors from the relevant Company Secretary.
The notice period applicable to the service contracts of the Executive Directors is 12 months.
Details of the terms of appointment and the remuneration of both Executive and In 2016, the Boards considered the following: Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration reports from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Report, on pages 91 to 104.
Officer on the Groups actual and forecasted operational and financial performance In compliance with the UK Code, all Directors seek re-election by shareholders annually, except for those Directors retiring strategic and business presentations, including two immediately after the respective Annual General Meetings.
full-day strategy reviews annual and interim results Board changes dividend declarations and policy, together with returns to Changes during the year in the composition of the Boards and shareholders through share buybacks Board Committees are set out in the table on page 76. returns made on capital previously invested by the Group Wolfhart Hauser succeeded Lisa Hook as the Senior Independent budgets and annual strategy plan 2016-2019 Director with effect from April 2016.
In addition, during the year, capital structure and funding requirements Carol Mills and Robert MacLeod were appointed as independent Non-Executive Directors of the Boards, replacing Lisa Hook and the Groups principal risks and review and ongoing Robert Polet both of whom retired from the Boards after ten and monitoring of risk management and internal control nine years of service respectively.
Ms Mills was also appointed as the Terms of Reference for each of their Committees a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, with Mr Board succession and executive talent management MacLeod appointed as a member of the Remuneration appointments and re-appointments to the Boards and Committee.
appointments to Board Committees In accordance with the articles of association of RELX PLC, Directors the Groups Operating and Governance Principles are normally subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
investor relations activities litigation update In accordance with the UK Code, all Directors will retire from the Boards of RELX NV and RELX PLC at the respective Annual their own performance, that of their Committees and of each General Meetings and will offer themselves for re-election.
Based Director, including the Chairman on the review of performance and effectiveness by the Corporate updates on major acquisitions, investments and disposals Governance Committee of each individual seeking re-election, the reports from the Committee Chairmen on the key activities Boards have accepted a recommendation from the Nominations ofthe Board Committees Committee that each of these Directors be proposed for re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting of the respective Independence of the Non-Executive Directors company.
Details of the annual evaluation of the Boards, The Boards review the independence of the Non-Executive Committees and Directors are set out on page 75.
Directors every year, based on the criteria for independence set out in the UK Code.
The UK Code does not consider the Chairman Board induction and development to be independent due to the unique role he has in corporate The Chairman and the Company Secretary of each Board are governance.
Notwithstanding this, Anthony Habgood met the responsible for ensuring that an effective induction programme independence criteria contained in the UK Code when he was takes place for new Directors.
Following appointment and as appointed Chairman in 2009.
The Boards consider all Nonrequired, all new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored Executive Directors other than the Chairman to be independent induction, which is designed to meet their individual needs based of management and free from any business or other relationship on their knowledge and experience.
This includes the provision of which could materially interfere with their ability to exercise a comprehensive briefing pack and induction programme, as well independent judgement.
as other relevant information to assist that Director in performing their duties.
Terms of appointment Upon joining the Boards as Non-Executive Directors in April 2016, RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders maintain their rights to appoint inductions for Robert MacLeod and Carol Mills were designed individuals to the respective Boards in accordance with the provisions taking into account their previous knowledge and experience, and of the articles of association of these companies.
However, no the roles that they were asked to undertake for RELX Group.
individual may be appointed to the Boards unless recommended by the joint Nominations Committee.
Members of that Committee abstain when their own re-appointment is being considered.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance 75 Both received briefings from the leaders of the main business In accordance with the requirements of the UK Code, an operating units, and also from the Chief Strategy Officer, in order independent external evaluation will be carried out in 2017 18. to enhance and deepen their understanding of RELX Group, its A review of the performance of the Chairman of the Boards was businesses and the competitive environment in which it operates.
led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman was not They also received presentations from the Groups key corporate present during discussion among the Non-Executive Directors functions, including finance, and from a number of the Groups relating to his performance.
The conclusions of the review were principal external advisers.
Given their first-time appointments to subsequently considered at a meeting of the Boards.
the Board of a Dutch-listed company, each was provided with an in-depth briefing on their duties as a Director.
Ms Mills also Conclusions of the 2016 review received a similar briefing in respect of her duties as a Director of a The review confirmed that, overall, the Directors are of the UK-listed company.
view that the Boards remain engaged and committed, and that Following their appointments to the Remuneration Committee, there is a culture where openness and debate are encouraged Mr MacLeod and Ms Mills received a briefing on executive around the Boardroom table.
It further confirmed that the remuneration from the Human Resources Director, and having Directors believe that the Boards continue to be appropriately joined the Audit Committees, Ms Mills undertook a comprehensive involved in key decisions taken by the Group, monitoring the Audit Committee induction programme including a briefing from performance of the Group and developing the Groups the external auditor, designed to ensure familiarisation with the strategy.
All Directors commended the Chairman on his Committees oversight responsibilities.
effective leadership of the Boards, and believed that the Boards have an appropriate blend of experience, skills and In addition to scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings diversity to provide leadership for the Group.
An area of focus held during the year, the Directors attend other meetings and site for the Boards in 2017 is a review of key people measures, visits to support their continuing development.
The Non-Executive including employee turnover and satisfaction.
Directors also have opportunities to meet RELX Group Business Leaders and other senior executives.
Based on the findings of the review, the Corporate Governance Committee concluded that the Boards and their Committees Board information and support function effectively and collaboratively and with an All Directors have complete and timely access to the information appropriate level of engagement with management.
The required to discharge their responsibilities fully and efficiently.
Committee also concluded that the performance of each They have access to the services of the respective Company Director continues to be effective and that they demonstrate Secretaries, who are responsible for the accurate and timely flow commitment to their respective roles.
of information to the Boards and advising the Chairman on all corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary of each Board attends all of its meetings.
The Directors also have access Progress made during 2016 in response to 2015 review to other members of the Groups management, staff and external observations advisers, and may take independent professional advice in the Feedback provided during the evaluation also confirmed that furtherance of their duties, at the relevant companys expense.
good progress is being made in response to the prior years Each of the Directors is expected to attend all meetings of the observations, particularly in ensuring a continued focus for Boards and Committees of which they are a member.
Where a the Boards on succession planning, so that an appropriate Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they level of experience and knowledge of the Group is maintained are provided with the papers relating to that meeting and are able as Board membership evolves.
to discuss issues arising with the respective chairman and other Board and Committee members.
They are also provided with a copy of the meeting minutes.
Board evaluation The Directors consider the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and members to be an important aspect of corporate governance.
Each year, the Boards undertake an annual evaluation of their own effectiveness and performance, and that of their Committees and individual Directors.
In 2016, the Boards undertook an internal evaluation, overseen by the Corporate Governance Committee and supported by the Company Secretaries.
Using questionnaires completed by all Directors, the Committee explored key areas including: the performance of the Boards: Board composition and succession planning: talent management and executive leadership succession: risk management, corporate governance and compliance: agenda planning and quality of information provided by management: and Board Committee effectiveness.
The Chairman conducted interviews with each of the Directors.
