Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Remuneration Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report Earlier this year, we also consulted with shareholders The Directors Remuneration Report the Report describes representing over 45% of our issued share capital and how the Group applies the principles of good governance shareholder representative bodies in the UK, the Netherlands relating to Directors remuneration.
This Report has been andthe US.
I will comment on the consultation in greater detail prepared by the Remuneration Committee of RELX Group plc below, but for now would like to express my gratitude for the the Committee in accordance with the UK Corporate feedback received, which has helped to shape the final design Governance Code, the UK Listing Rules, the Large and ofthe proposed policy.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the UK Regulations and the Outline of the proposed new remuneration policy for Executive Dutch Corporate Governance Code the Dutch Code.
Directors Our objective with the new policy is to maintain the overall The Report was approved by the Boards of RELX PLC, RELX remuneration for Executive Directors broadly at current levels NV and RELX Group plc.
using the same combination of performance metrics for the incentive plans as used presently as these have supported consistent, predictable and strong financial performance by the Introduction from the Remuneration business and significant value creation for shareholders over the Committee Chairman last five years.
Our business strategy continues to be to grow the core business through organic investment and the build-out of The current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders new products, with bolt-on acquisitions where we are the natural atthe 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM of RELX PLC for three owner, as well as portfolio rationalisation through selective years and can be found at www.
We are therefore retaining the same performance or on pages 79 to 85 of the 2013 Remuneration Report.
Asa result, metrics for the long-term incentive, as these align with, and an updated remuneration policy is being proposed to shareholders support, our strategy by focussing on sustained earnings growth, for approval at the 2017 RELX PLC AGM and the RELX NV AGM, return on invested capital and shareholder returns.
with the first awards under the new policy to be granted to existing Executive Directors in the first quarter of 2018.
The new policy, We propose simplifying the incentive framework for Executive which is proposed to apply for three years from the conclusion of Directors by reducing the number of plans in which they the 2017 RELX PLC AGM, is set out in the Remuneration Policy participate from four one annual and three multi-year incentive Report on pages 84 to 90. plans to two one annual and one multi-year incentive plan.
RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders will be invited to vote We propose to eliminate any future participation by Executive byway of a binding vote on the proposed new remuneration policy Directors in the BIP share matching plan Bonus Investment Plan at the 2017 AGMs of RELX PLC and RELX NV respectively.
and the ESOS Executive Share Option Scheme.
Under the new policy, they will participate only in the AIP Annual Incentive Plan The implementation of the current policy during 2016 is described and the LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan.
Overall incentive on pages 92 to 104 the Annual Remuneration Report.
opportunity will be broadly maintained at current policy levels by RELX PLC shareholders will be invited to vote by way of a adding a deferred share element to the AIP and increasing the non-binding advisory vote on the 2016 Annual Remuneration potential award under the LTIP to offset the elimination of their Report at the RELX PLC AGM.
future participation in the other two multi-year incentive plans.
Our Report therefore has two parts, the first directly below We will maintain the target opportunity for the annual incentive dealing with the new policy and the second starting on page 91, which is paid in cash at the current level 100% of salary and will describing the implementation of the existing policy in 2016. reduce the maximum possible cash annual incentive payable to Executive Directors from 150% of salary under the current policy to 133% of salary under the new policy.
We will add a deferred Proposed new remuneration policy share element to the AIP of 50% of salary at target and 67% of A key area of focus for the Committee during 2016 was the review salary at maximum.
This means that the total AIP opportunity of the remuneration policy for Directors.
cash plus deferred shares will be 150% of salary at target and 200% at maximum.
The deferred share element will equal In reviewing the policy, the Committee took into account its desire one-third of the total of any earned incentive under the AIP and will to retain and attract top executive talent, promote the continued be paid in RELX shares, which will not be released for three years.
strong strategic and financial performance of the business and We intend to continue to use profit after tax, revenue, cash flow maintain executive alignment with long-term shareholder conversion and individual Key Performance Objectives KPOs, interests.
The Committee considered feedback received from which are chosen to align with the companys strategy and create shareholders since the adoption of the current policy in 2014 and aplatform for sustainable future performance, as the AIP trends in market practice, and was cognisant of the global nature performance measures.
We will lower the caps on the payout of the RELX business.
As a data analytics and technology-driven amounts for each individual financial performance element to business with half of its revenue being derived from the US 150% of target, and for the KPO element to 100% of target.
market, the Group primarily competes for talent with US-based information and technology companies.
The Committee also AIP performance targets financial and KPOs will be set by the considered the pay practices of the FTSE 30, reflective of the Committee following the same robust process which has been companys position around the middle of this group.
used in recent years and will be designed to be challenging but achievable.
Financial targets are set by reference to the previous years performance and internal and external forecasts for the 82 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 following year.
Over the last seven years, payout levels under the company contribution from 30% of salary per annum under the AIP for Executive Directors have been at relatively consistent current policy to 25% and the company contribution rate for the levels at around 100% of target, or 70% of maximum, reflective of current CFO which was approved under the current policy will be RELXs consistent and strong financial performance.
This year, we reduced from 30% to 25% over the next two years.
are significantly increasing the level of retrospective disclosure of In developing the proposed new policy for Executive Directors, the AIP targets by disclosing both the actual achievement for the Committee considered the pay policies for employees across the financial measures as well as the full scale of potential outcomes Group generally and the incentive plan participation of the wider from threshold to maximum for each of these measures and the senior management population.
Subject to receiving shareholder percentage achievement for KPOs for the 2016 AIP see page 93. approval for the new policy, the Committee will decide on the most The LTIP will be based on the same foundations as before, appropriate way to align senior managements incentive plan focussing on sustained earnings growth, through earnings per participation with that of the Executive Directors.
share EPS, return on invested capital ROIC and total shareholder return TSR, as these continue to support the Shareholder consultation execution of our business strategy and promote continued As noted, we consulted extensively with shareholders long-term value creation.
We believe that, together, EPS, ROIC and representing a total of over 45% of our combined PLC and NV TSR provide a balanced set of measures.
In order to maintain the issued share capital and shareholder representative bodies in proportion of remuneration which is tied to TSR performance, as a theUK, the Netherlands and the US on our proposed new policy.
percentage of salary, at a similar level to the current policy level, We had a high level ofengagement and are pleased to report that we will adjust the relative weighting of the performance measures virtually all investors with whom we met indicated support for rd in the LTIP from 1 3 for each under the current policy to 40% EPS, thegeneral direction of the proposed new remuneration policy.
40% ROIC and 20% TSR under the new policy.
The increase in All investors welcomed the simplified design, the addition weighting of EPS and ROIC reflects the impact of the elimination of ofadeferred share element to the AIP, the increase in share BIP which has EPS and ROIC as its two performance measures.
ownership requirements and lengthening of the LTIP To partly offset the elimination of the Executive Directors post-vesting holding period and our commitment to increased participation in the other two multi-year incentive plans in which disclosure of AIP targets and outcomes.
they currently participate BIP and ESOS, we propose to increase Investors appreciated our consistent company performance the maximum opportunity under the LTIP from 250% to 450% of over the past five years and acknowledged that remuneration salary for the CEO and from 200% to 375% of salary for other at the company historically had been well correlated with Executive Directors.
The maximum opportunity under BIP is company performance, which was felt to be important.
currently 100% of salary and under ESOS is 250% of salary for the CEO and 200% of salary for the CFO.
The threshold award vesting While shareholders hold divergent views about individual level in respect of each performance measure will be reduced to performance metrics, there was agreement that the balanced 25%.
The targets for each three-year performance period will be mix of EPS, ROIC and TSR had supported the companys set with regard to prior years results, internal and external performance and an understanding of why the company feels forecasts for the performance period and the strategic plan for itappropriate to continue to use these financial measures for thebusiness.
They are designed to provide exceptional reward for the LTIP.
exceptional performance, whilst providing a reasonable Some investors sought reassurance that the new policy was expectation that a payout at the lower end of the scale is attainable, sufficient to retain the current Executive Directors.
A number subject to robust performance.
of shareholders also raised concerns about the elimination The overall remuneration which would be received under the new ofthe ESOS option plan and sought reassurance that the policy if threshold performance was achieved for all financial Executive Directors felt the proposed new policy was fair.
measures in the AIP and LTIP is less than what would be achieved Someinvestors were concerned that the financial measures, for threshold performance under all of the incentive plans under inparticular ROIC, might disincentivise management from the current policy.
taking appropriate business risks, for example in respect of acquisitions, which may be required to drive further growth in To even further strengthen long-term alignment with the business.
The Committee believes that the mix of financial shareholders, we will increase the shareholding requirements measures provides adequate incentive.
from 300% to 400% of salary for the CEO and from 200% to 300% ofsalary for other Executive Directors and lengthen the LTIP When asked how we compared total quantum under the post-vesting holding period from six months to two years.
newpolicy with total quantum under the current policy, we explained that we had looked at the CEOs total remuneration Under the new pension policy, and as part of his ongoing received for the 2013-15 cycle under the existing policy and membership of the legacy defined benefit scheme, the CEO is compared the outcome under the proposed new policy, had it subject to higher annual increases in his personal contributions been in place at the relevant time, against this amount.
The two 2% per annum increases versus 1% under the current policy and amounts were very close to each other.
Furthermore, the in the participation fee 3% per annum increases versus 2% under overall maximum grant face values of incentives annual and the current policy and is also subject to a 2% cap on annual long-term, as a percentage of salary, are lower under the new increases in pensionable earnings.
These changes are designed to policy than under the current policy.
manage the costs inherent in operating this scheme and mean that by 2020, the CEO will contribute to the pension 19% of his base We believe that the proposed changes result in a simplified salary in excess of the pension schemes earnings cap.
In respect remuneration policy which addresses the shareholder feedback of the defined contribution plan, we have reduced the maximum Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Remuneration Report 83 we have received and more closely reflects current investor preferences, whilst retaining the elements of our current remuneration structure which we believe have contributed to RELXs strong and consistent financial performance and significant value creation for shareholders over the past five years.
As in previous years, the Report has been prepared in a manner which balances the specific local requirements of the UK Regulations and the Dutch Code with the desire to provide additional information which may be helpful to our broader global investor base.
Wolfhart Hauser Chairman, Remuneration Committee
