Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 77 Audit Committee report The Audit Committee has a vital role to play in ensuring the integrity of our financial statements, the effectiveness of our risk management processes and internal controls, and in evaluating the performance of the external audit process.
During 2016 we also monitored the various changes to the Code, agreed the content of the viability statement and recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be appointed as the external auditor for the 2017 financial year, subject to shareholder approval atthe AGM.
Carol Chesney, Non-executive director Chair of the Audit Committee Audit Committee role and Sector experience composition Member Financial experience Company and position Sector The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive directors Carol Chartered accountant Company Secretary at Halma plc Technology Chesney of the Company.
The Audit Committees Worked at Arthur terms of reference include all matters Anderson for 7years indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Previously Group Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of Financial Controller at reference are considered annually by the Halma plc Audit Committee and any changes are Sir David Senior Independent Technology recommended to the Board for approval.
Grant Director of IQE plc The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Director of Dstl Technology accounting policies and procedures, its Chair of NPL Metrology annual and interim financial statements Previously worked for Dowty Group Manufacturing before submission to the Board and its Previously Group Technical Director of Engineering compliance with statutory requirements.
GEC plc The committee monitors the integrity Previously Vice-President of the Royal Engineering of the Groups financial statements and Academy of Engineering announcements relating to financial Chair of Imanova Imaging services John performance and reviews the significant Jeans reporting judgements contained therein.
Chair of UK Biocentre Healthcare It also reviews the scope, remit and Chair of Edinburgh Molecular Imaging Biotechnology effectiveness of the internal control Non-executive director of ProMetic SMT Biopharmaceuticals systems and internal audit function.
Member of the Ministerial Committee Biotechnology The Audit Committee comprises three on Medical Technologies non-executive directors: Carol Chesney Advisor to the Prime Minister at the Medical technology Chair, Sir David Grant and John Jeans.
Office of Life Sciences The Board is satisfied that at least one Previously worked for Smith &Nephew Medical equipment member of the committee has recent Previously President of Dravon Medical Medical equipment and relevant financial experience, being Smith & Nephew Carol Chesney.
The terms of reference are Previously Senior Vice President of Healthcare available on the Companys website.
Zimmer Bristol-Myers Squibb Previously President at Ortho Clinical Medical diagnostics Meetings Diagnostics International Johnson &Johnson The committee meets at least three times Previously Chairman at GE Healthcare a year with the Group Finance Director, Healthcare Ltd the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit Manager, the Company Secretary and the external auditor in attendance.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Key issues and activities At least one meeting, or part thereof, is internal control processes and its internal held with the external auditor without In addition to reviewing the financial and external audit activities.
This year the reporting of the Company, the committee committee met four times: further details also spends a significant amount of time are on page 78.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 78 Governance Audit Committee report continued The principal activities in the year: Financial statements External auditor and and reports Risk management Internal audit non-audit work Reviewed the effectiveness of the Reviewed the output from the Evaluated the scope of work to Undertook a tender for Groups risk management and Groups risk review process to be undertaken by the internal the 2017 group external internal controls and disclosures identify, evaluate and mitigate audit function: audit service: made in the 2016 Annual report: risks and considered whether reviewed progress on reviewed, considered and changes in risk profile were reviewed the 2016 Annual report, recommendations brought agreed the scope and adequately addressed: the 2016 Interim report and all forward and considered methodology of the 2016 audit other trading updates issued received updates on compliance recommendations arising during work to be undertaken by the during the year.
The committee with the Groups anti-bribery and the year: and external auditor: received a report from the corruption policy: considered the resource evaluated the independence external auditor on the audit of reviewed proposals to enhance levels available to the internal and objectivity of the the 2016 Annual report: the Groups whistleblowing policy audit function.
external auditor: reviewed areas of the accounts and process which will include agreed the terms of requiring judgement including an external reporting facility for engagement and the fees to the carrying value of goodwill, employees: and be paid to the external auditor the carrying value of inventory, reviewed the Groups proposed for the audit of the 2016 capitalisation of internally approach to compliance with financial statements: generated development costs, the requirements of the Modern amortisation of intangible reviewed the level and nature of Slavery Act.
assets, debtor provisions, non-audit services provided by warranty provisions and the external auditor: taxation provisions: undertook an effectiveness reviewed the accounting and review of the external audit disclosures in relation to the process: and Groups defined benefit pension reviewed and approved schemes: and updates to the non-audit reviewed the content of the services policy.
The committee agreed the content of the viability statement following a thorough review process which included an assessment of the potential downside impact of the Groups principal risks.
The viability statement is set out on page 73.
An extensive verification exercise was a commentary on how these issues Risk management and internal undertaken to ensure the factual accuracy were addressed: controls of the Annual report by the Board and i The carrying value of goodwill The committee monitors the effectiveness senior management.
An advanced draft of of the Groups internal controls and risk The committee focused on the impairment the Annual report was considered by the management processes which allows it testing by the Company of the carrying committee at its meeting on 6th July 2016 to maintain a good understanding of the value of goodwill.
By applying knowledge with a final draft being reviewed on 22nd business performance and key areas of and making enquiries of the relevant cashJuly 2016, prior to it being presented to judgement and decision making within generating units, reviewing the forecasts the Board.
Following those discussions, the Group.
and the sensitivity analysis, the committee the committee advised the Board that the agreed with the conclusion reached that Annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, Details of risk management and internal no impairments were required.
controls are set out on page 48 and 49 and page 74. ii The carrying value of inventory The directors statement on a fair, balanced and understandable Annual Provisions are made to write down Fair, balanced and report is set out on page 73. slow-moving and obsolete inventory understandable report and items to net realisable value, based on accounts Significant issues in relation to an assessment of technological and the financial statements One of the key governance requirements market developments and on an analysis is for the Annual report to be fair, balanced of historic and projected demand.
As part of the reporting and review and understandable.
Ensuring that this The assessment used to calculate the process, the committee has regular standard is met requires continuous provisions needed requires the application discussions with management and the assessment of the financial reporting of judgement by management.
external auditor relating to significant issues affecting the Group on a yearissues.
During the year the committee The committee received confirmation from round basis in addition to a number of considered the significant issues set management that the approach used to focused exercises that take place during out below in relation to the financial determine the provision was consistent the accounts production process within a statements.
Also contained below is with the previous year and made enquiries strict timeframe.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 79 of management to gain an understanding global coverage for the Independence of external of how business developments, both Companys subsidiaries: auditor technological and market-driven, had value for money: In order to safeguard the independence impacted the provision during the year.
and objectivity of the external auditor, audit approach and methodology The external auditor explained to the the committee reviews the nature and including the use of data committee the work they had performed extent of the non-audit services supplied, analytic techniques: in respect of the carrying value of receiving reports on the balance of goodwill and inventory provisions during internal governance processes: audit to non-audit fees.
The committee was satisfied committee regarded it most cost efficient transition plan: that management judgements were to use the external auditor for tax advice appropriate and that the carrying value of verbal references for senior members of and compliance since this requires an goodwill and the inventory provision were the proposed audit teams: in-depth knowledge and understanding appropriately stated at the year end.
of the Companys business, products, technical capabilities of the firm as a customer base and markets.
whole: and Approach to auditor Beyond 2016, tax advice and compliance appointment and audit quality ethical behaviour and fair dealing.
will not be undertaken by the external The committee has primary responsibility auditor.
The non-audit services policy has Following the review, the committee made for making the recommendation on been updated in the year to reflect the a recommendation to the Board that Ernst the appointment, reappointment and extended list of prohibited services as & Young LLP be appointed as the external removal of the external auditor, which auditor for the 2017 financial year, subject set out in the latest EU audit regulation.
the Board puts to shareholders for There are also specified services which to shareholder approval at the AGM in approval at the AGM.
KPMG LLP and require the prior approval of the Group October this year.
its predecessor firms have been auditor Finance Director and Chair of the Audit since 1974 and the lead audit partner When the committee assesses the Committee before the auditor may be has changed in line with their internal effectiveness of the external audit appointed to provide such services.
During the year the process and the quality of the audit work In addition, there are specified levels of external audit contract for 2017 was put throughout the year it considers: authorisation to be obtained before the out to tender.
KPMG LLP was not invited auditor may be permitted to tender for any issues arising from the prior to tender which will allow the group to non-audit services.
year audit: use KPMG LLP for non-audit services An analysis of fees paid to KPMG LLP, which are prohibited under the latest EU the proposed audit plan including including the split between audit and audit regulation.
Additionally the tender the identification of risks specific non-audit services, is included in note 5 coincided with the mandatory rotation of to the Group, audit scope and the KPMG LLP lead partner.
materiality thresholds: The committee agreed the tender process feedback from executive management, Other matters and approved a Request for Proposal including the review of a report The committee reviews the policy by RFP document which was sent to presented by the Group Finance which employees of the Company may, selected firms.
Services, such as tax Director, Group Financial Controller in confidence, raise matters of concern, compliance and advice, were not within and the Group Audit Manager on including possible improprieties in the scope of the RFP.
the effectiveness of the external financial reporting or other matters.
It was audit process: recommended to the Board that this The committee, together with the policy is enhanced in the early part of next Group Finance Director, the Group the delivery of the audit in line with financial year by the implementation of Audit Manager and the Group Financial the plan: an external reporting line.
It also monitors Controller, reviewed the proposals which the communication of matters arising the effectiveness of the Companys culminated in presentations by each firm.
during the audit to the committee: procedures to avoid any bribery related to The committee considered the following the activities of the Group.
aspects in arriving at its recommendation private meetings with the auditor to the Board: without management being present: and skills and knowledge of the team proposed to do the work: the independence and objectivity of Carol Chesney the auditor.
independence of the audit firm from Chair of the Audit Committee the Company: 27th July 2016 audit partner rotation and succession planning:
