Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 76 Governance Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee has an important role in leading the process for Board appointments and ensuring that the Board has the correct balance of experience, diversity and skills to support our business model and strategy.
Sir David R McMurtry, Chairman and Chief Executive Chair of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee role Activities during the year Boardroom diversity andcomposition The committee met once during the year The Board has considered the to consider and propose the appointment recommendations of the Women on The Nomination Committee, which of Will Lee to the Board as Group Sales Boards report issued by Lord Davies of meets on an ad hoc basis as required, and Marketing Director.
Will has been Abersoch, and his subsequent annual is responsible for reviewing the size, a long-standing member of the senior reviews, as regards setting out aspirations structure and composition of the Board, leadership team in a number of roles at for the appointment of women to boards, including its balance of skills, knowledge Renishaw and was appointed Director and has decided that it is inappropriate and experience and for nominating of Group Sales and Marketing during the to set out any levels that may require candidates for appointment to the Board.
year, working with Ben Taylor to take over positive discrimination in this respect, as The members of the Nomination Bens sales and marketing duties in his the overriding requirement is to appoint Committee are Sir David McMurtry Chair, transition to retirement on 31st July 2016. directors with the necessary skills and Carol Chesney, Kath Durrant, Sir David The appointment was confirmed on 27th experience for the role.
The majority July 2016 and takes effect on 1st August However, as an international company, of the members of this committee are 2016.
The committee believes that Will the Board acknowledges that diversity of independent non-executive directors.
has the required skills and experience all types is a benefit and should be borne The terms of reference of this committee to provide an invaluable contribution to in mind when recruiting to all roles within are published on the Companys website.
the Company, and has a policy to provide In relation to non-executive positions, equal opportunities to all.
The Boards the four non-executive directors were policy is to request, where recruitment all appointed within the last four years consultants are appointed for board and the Board considers that they are appointment, that a proportion of female working effectively together in order to candidates are included in their shortlist.
support the Board and the Company.
Consequently there were no further appointments or changes considered necessary during the year other than Sir David R McMurtry to appoint Kath Durrant as Chair of the Chair of the Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee.
