243977 Renewable R&A pp053-pp062 22 02 2017 15:59 Page 59 SECTION 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Introduction can better assess the governance exercised over companies The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate in Guernseys finance sector.
governance culture that meets the listing requirements.
The The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale Board has put in place a framework for corporate and complexity of specific businesses will lead to differing governance which it believes is appropriate for an approaches to meeting the Code.
Companies which report investment company in line with the best practices in relation against the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC to matters affecting shareholders, communities, regulators Code are also deemed to meet this Code.
The Directors and other stakeholders of the Company.
With a range of have determined that the Company will continue as a relevant skills and experience, all Directors contribute to the Guernsey-registered closed-ended investment company.
Board discussions and debates on corporate governance.
In particular, the Board believes in providing as much Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments transparency for investors as is reasonably possible to On 1 January 2014, certain changes to the FCA rules ensure investors can clearly understand the prospects of relating to restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated the business and enhance liquidity of its shares while also collective investment schemes and close substitutes came preserving an appropriate level of commercial confidentiality.
As announced by the Company on 7 January 2014, AIFM Directive following the receipt of legal advice the Board confirms that The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive seeks it conducts the Company's affairs, and intends to continue to regulate alternative investment fund managers in this to conduct the Company's affairs, such that the Company paragraph, AIFM and imposes obligations on managers would qualify for approval as an investment trust if it were who manage alternative investment funds in this paragraph, resident in the United Kingdom.
It is the Board's intention AIF in the EU or who market shares in such funds to EU that the Company will continue to conduct its affairs in such investors.
The Company is categorised as a self-managed a manner and that Independent Financial Advisers should Non EEA AIF for the purposes of the AIFM Directive.
In therefore be able to recommend its Ordinary Shares to order to maintain compliance with the AIFM Directive, the ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCA's rules Company needs to comply with various organisational, relating to non-mainstream investment products.
Association of Investment Companies THE BOARD The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code Companies the AIC and has considered the principles The Board consists of four non-executive Directors.
In and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate accordance with Principle 2 of the AIC Code all of the nonGovernance the AIC Code and has decided to follow the executives are independent of the Investment Manager.
The AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Chairman, Helen Mahy, met the independence criteria of the Companies the AIC Guide.
The Company has complied AIC Code Principle 1 upon appointment and has continued with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant to meet this condition throughout her term of service.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance as set out below.
with guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a Senior The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions Independent Director, Shelagh Mason, who was appointed relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors as Senior Independent Director in 2013.
Being nonremuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For executive Directors, none of the Directors has a service the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the Board considers contract with the Company.
these provisions are not relevant to the position of the The Articles of Incorporation currently provide that at least Company as it has no executive directors, employees or one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual internal operations.
The Company has therefore not general meeting.
If their number is not three or a multiple of reported further in respect of these provisions.
three, the number nearest to, but not exceeding, one third, shall retire from office.
In accordance with Principle 3 of the Guernsey regulatory environment AIC Code, all 4 Directors intend to retire and offer The Guernsey Financial Services Commission the themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual Commission issued a Finance Sector Code of Corporate General Meeting on 3 May 2017.
The Code comprises Principles and Guidance, and provides a formal expression of good corporate practice The Board believes that long serving Directors should not against which shareholders, boards and the Commission be automatically prevented from forming part of an independent majority of the Board upon reaching nine years THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 59 243977 Renewable R&A pp053-pp062 22 02 2017 15:59 Page 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued service.
In accordance with Principle 4 of the Code, if a Notwithstanding this, the selection of the preferred individual Director has served more than nine years, the Board will to be invited to join the Board will always be based on merit.
consider the issue of independence carefully on an annual The Board requires the Investment Manager and the basis as part of the Board self-evaluation and will disclose Operations Manager, to whom the day to day management its conclusions in the Directors Report.
As the Company of the Company is delegated, to present to them on their was formed in 2013 no Director has yet served for nine own Diversity policies, targets and achievements as part of years or more.
A Director who retires at an annual general the review of the Managers carried out by the Management meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
The Board recommends the re-election of each Director and The Board believes that the balance of skills, gender, supporting biographies are disclosed on page 52 of this experience and knowledge of the current Board provides for annual report.
a sound base from which the interests of investors will be The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year served to a high standard, although as the Company grows, and between these formal meetings there is regular contact the Board may consider whether additional directors may be with the Investment Manager and Operations Manager, the suitable.
The Board has chosen to adopt a definitive policy Secretary and the Companys Joint Brokers.
The Directors with quantitative targets for Board diversity.
The Company are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls, aspires to equal representation of men and women on the and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Board and from 1 March 2014 this was achieved.
However, Company that should be brought to the attention of the gender, knowledge, skills, experience, residency and Directors.
The Directors also have access, where necessary governance credentials are all considered by the in the furtherance of their duties, to independent Nominations Committee when recommending appointments professional advice at the expense of the Company.
to the Board and in formulating succession plans.
The attendance record of Directors for the period to 31 December 2016 is set out below: Quarterly Management Board Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 44313 Meetings attended: H Mahy 44313 J Bridel 44313 S Mason 44313 K Hammer 44313 During the period a further twenty-two ad hoc shareholders received directly or from the Managers.
The Board Committee meetings were held in Guernsey to deal investment strategy is reviewed regularly with the Investment with matters substantially of an administrative nature and Manager.
Board meetings include a review of investment these were attended by those Directors available.
performance and associated matters such as health and safety, marketing investor relations, risk management, The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the gearing, general administration and compliance, peer group Company and the Directors believe that any changes to the information and industry issues.
Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
Performance evaluation The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and The Board evaluates its performance and considers the agenda of meeting which are circulated to the Board in tenure and independence of each Director on an ongoing advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
Directors may request any agenda items to be added that During 2016 Optimus Group Limited, an independent they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Each consultant, was engaged by the Company to conduct a Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board.
The actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
report concluded that the Board, as a whole, and its The Board constantly considers the Companys strategy Committees are well informed and give strong challenge to with regard to market conditions and feedback from the Investment Manager and the Operations Manager and 60 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 243977 Renewable R&A pp053-pp062 22 02 2017 15:59 Page 61 do so in an environment of collegiality and mutual trust.
The the payment of dividends amongst other matters, subject to Board were considered to be well prepared for meetings and the overall supervision and oversight of the Board.
Among effective and professional in their decision making and the specific tasks of the Investment Manager are the overall boardroom behaviour with the appropriate skills and financial management of the Company and existing portfolio experience.
Optimus concluded that the board worked well as a whole, including the deployment of capital, with the Managers and Company Secretary and other management of the Groups debt facilities, hedging service providers and demonstrated a high standard of arrangements, the sourcing of new investments, preparing Corporate Governance.
the semi-annual valuations, the statutory accounts, the management accounts, business plans, presenting results A number of useful recommendations of a minor and information to shareholders, coordinating all corporate administrative nature were made by Optimus that the service providers to the Group and giving the Board general Company has taken on board.
interaction of Board members and were generally very positive but provided useful observations about how these The Operations Manager is responsible for monitoring, interactions could be further enhanced, which have been evaluating and optimising technical and financial acted upon.
The services provided by the Operations Manager include maintaining an overview of The Board also asked Optimus to review the procedures of project operations and reporting on key performance the Company a self-managed Alternative Investment Fund measures, recommending and implementing strategy on in respect of AIFMD compliance which was confirmed.
management of the portfolio including energy sales The Board continues to monitor training for Directors.
The agreements, insurance, maintenance and other areas Directors consider and report regularly their training needs requiring portfolio-level decisions, maintaining and and their continuing professional development and training monitoring health and safety and operating risk carried out.
The Board receive regular feedback from management policies.
The Operations Manager also works investors and sector analysts and continue to focus on risk jointly with the Investment Manager on sourcing and management and controls.
transacting new business, providing assistance in due diligence on potential new acquisitions, refinancing of The independence of each Director has been considered existing assets and investor relations.
The Operations and each has been confirmed as being independent of the Manager does not participate in any investment decisions Company and its Managers.
taken by or on behalf of the Company or undertake any The Board believes that the composition of the Board and other regulated activities for the purposes of the UKs its Committees reflect a suitable mix of skills and Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. experience, and that the Board, as a whole, and its Members of the Investment Managers and or the Committees functioned effectively during 2016 and since the Operations Managers teams are also appointed as directors launch of the Company in 2013.
The Board has employed of the Groups project companies and or intermediate the use of a skills matrix to identify if there are any missing holding companies and as part of their role in managing the competences and confirmed that the existing Directors held portfolio, they attend board meetings of these companies the appropriate range of skills.
The skills matrix tool will and make appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are inform the Directors in the recruitment of any additional or referred back to the TRIGs investment committee and or replacement Directors to the Company.
The Board considers advisory committee for consideration and determination, its composition to be appropriate and hence no such and the TRIG Board is consulted on key matters relevant to recruitment is considered necessary at this time.
TRIGs strategy, policies or overall performance, both on an ad hoc basis where required and during formal reporting Delegation of responsibilities sessions, including all matters outside the Managers The Board has delegated the following areas of delegated authority.
responsibility: The day-to-day administration of the Company has been Committees of the Board delegated to Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited The committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the in its capacity as Company Secretary and Administrator.
Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
Terms of The Investment Manager has full discretion within agreed reference for each Committee have been approved by the parameters to make investments in accordance with the Board.
Companys investment policy and has responsibility for financial administration and investor relations, in addition to advising the Board in relation to further capital raisings and THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 61 243977 Renewable R&A pp053-pp062 22 02 2017 15:59 Page 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 December 2016 are as follows: Management Audit Remuneration Nomination Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman J Bridel S Mason H Mahy H Mahy Members S Mason H Mahy J Bridel J Bridel K Hammer J Bridel S Mason S Mason K Hammer K Hammer K Hammer Nomination Committee and no material issues were identified in connection with The main terms of reference of the Committee are to: their respective appointments.
regularly review the structure, size and composition Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee and required of the Board and make recommendations to the the Audit Committee are set out in Section 7 and Section 8 Board with regard to any changes including skills, respectively.
All terms of reference for Committees are knowledge and experience in accordance with Principle available from the Companys website or the Company 6 of the AIC Code : Secretary upon request.
give full consideration to succession planning for Directors Relations with shareholders AIC Code Principle 19 taking into account the challenges and opportunities The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and facing the Company: and places great importance on communication with its be responsible for identifying and nominating for the shareholders.
The Investment Manager produces a regular approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies factsheet which is available on the Companys website.
Senior members of the Investment Manager and Operations Manager make themselves available, as practicable, to meet The Nomination Committee met three times during 2016. with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
The Board is currently composed of 50% male and 50% Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board on female directors.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Management Engagement Committee Companys Financial PR agency, as well as receiving The terms of reference of this Committee are to review the relevant updates from the Managers and the Companys relationships between the Company and its main service Joint Brokers.
providers, including their performance, compliance with their contracts, and levels of fees paid.
Recommendations from The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year the Committees review are given to the Board for and will hold an Annual General Meeting in Guernsey on consideration and action.
3 May 2017, at which members of the Board will be available to answer shareholder questions.
In addition, The Management Engagement Committee met three times shareholders receive written communications from the in 2016 in accordance with its plan to review the Company either with documents enclosed or to notify them performance of the key service providers to the Group and of new information available to view on the Companys the Company.
No material weaknesses were identified, website.
some recommendations were conveyed to certain providers, and the recommendation to the Board was that the current Results of Extraordinary and Annual General Meetings are arrangements are appropriate and provide good quality announced by the Company promptly after the relevant services and advice to the Company and the Group.
Additionally, other notices and information are Committee convenes a planning meeting in August each provided to shareholders on an ongoing basis through the year followed by a meeting in November of each year to Companys website in order to assist in keeping review the Investment Manager and Operations Manager, shareholders informed.
The Secretary and Registrar monitor and a meeting in February of each year to review the other the voting of the shareholders and proxy voting is taken into service providers.
In July 2016 in agreement with the consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Company, the Company Secretary and Administrator role Meeting.
and key staff passed from Dexion Capital Guernsey Shareholders may contact the Board via the Company Limited to Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited.
Secretary, whose contact details are found on page 101 of The Managers were duly considered at the meeting of the these report and accounts.
Management Engagement Committee in November 2016 62 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016
