Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 70 Governance Directors corporate governance report Board structure Board Executive Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee International Sales and Marketing Board, divisions and subsidiary undertakings The Board meets as often as is necessary This committee is chaired by the Deputy A.
Leadership to discharge its duties effectively.
In the Chairman and includes the Group Finance The role of the Board financial year ended 30th June 2016, Director, the Group Sales and Marketing The Board comprises four executive and the Board met for 10 scheduled and Director, the directors of the five largest four independent non-executive directors two short notice meetings and the sales regions, the Director of Sales in addition to the executive Chairman.
directors attendance record at board Development and the Head of Global The directors holding office at the date and committee meetings is set out at the Additive Manufacturing.
of this report and short biographical end of this report.
In addition, the nonA framework of delegated authorities is details are given on pages 66 to 67 executive directors met a number of times in place that maps out the structure of Ben Taylor retired on 31 July 2016 and without executive directors present.
delegation below the Board and includes is not offering himself for re-election at A high-level summary of subject areas the matters reserved to the Executive the AGM.
Full biographical details are discussed during the year are set out on Board and the level of authorities given to available at www.
Will Lee page 71. management below the Executive Board.
was appointed by the Board as a director with effect from 1st August 2016, and The Board has three formally constituted An executive risk committee meets along with all other directors, will be committees, the Audit Committee, regularly to review risks which may impact retiring and putting himself up for election the Remuneration Committee and the on the Groups business and to implement at the AGM.
Wills biography is set out on Nomination Committee.
The Company maintains liability managing risk is set out on pages 48 There is an executive management insurance for its directors and officers, and 49. committee known as the Executive as disclosed in the Other statutory and Board that is responsible for the The Board has adopted a conflict regulatory disclosures.
executive management of the Groups of interests policy, putting in place There is a formal schedule of matters businesses.
It is chaired by the Chairman procedures for the disclosure and review specifically reserved for its decision.
and includes the executive directors of any conflicts and potential conflicts, These include the approval of annual and and senior managers as noted on page and authorisation by the Board if felt half-year results and trading statements, 68.
The Executive Board usually meets appropriate.
Authorisations granted and company and business acquisitions and for two days on a monthly basis and the terms of such are reviewed on an disposals, major capital expenditure, considers the performance and strategic annual basis.
New disclosures are made borrowings, material agreements, director direction of the metrology and healthcare where applicable.
and company secretary appointments businesses and other matters of general and removals, patent-related disputes importance to the Group.
In addition, and other material litigation, forecasts and there is an executive sales and marketing major product development projects.
committee known as the International Sales and Marketing Board which meets quarterly to determine the Groups sales and marketing policies and strategies and review its sales and marketing activities.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 71 High-level summary of subjects discussed by the Board during Scheduled Board and the year: committee meetings inthe period Strategy July 2015 August 2015 Business strategy Reviewing potential acquisitions disposals New subsidiaries Products and technology Key business relationships Brexit September 2015 October 2015 Risk Groups risk analysis Patent litigation Tax risk register and updates Governance November 2015 December 2015 Legal updates Market Abuse Regulation Modern Slavery Act Board evaluation Committee terms of reference Controlling shareholder agreement Export control January 2016 February 2016 Finance Forecasts and targets Oversight of the preparation and management of the financial statements Dividend policy Trading statements March 2016 April 2016 Stakeholder engagement AGM and other shareholder feedback Investor day HR May 2016 June 2016 Succession planning executive management structure Pensions Remuneration policy Salary reviews Bonus Health and safety system and updates Key Audit Committee 4 Remuneration Committee 4 Nomination Committee 1 Board 10 R A A B R B A B B B B A R B B B B R N A R N B Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 72 Governance Directors corporate governance report continued Division of responsibilities The Code recommends that at least B.
Effectiveness theChairman half the Board, excluding the Chairman, Composition of the Board should comprise independent nonThe role of Chairman and Chief Executive All the non-executive directors are executive directors.
The Board has is a combined role and thus contrary considered by the Board to be complied with this requirement during to the recommendations of the Code.
independent in character and judgement the period.
Sir David McMurtry has held this position and there are no relationships or since the Company listed in 1983 and he Appointments to the Board circumstances that are likely to affect a and John Deer hold the majority of the non-executive directors judgement.
A description of the structure and activities voting interests in the Company.
of the Nomination Committee are set out Sir David Grant is currently the senior There has been a voting agreement in in the Nomination Committee report on independent director of IQE plc having place between Sir David and John Deer page 76. been appointed in September 2012, since 1983, further details of which are set chair of STEMNET appointed in Commitment out in the Other statutory and regulatory December 2011, chair of the National The terms of appointment of the nondisclosures on page 87.
The Board Physical Laboratory appointed in May executive directors, which includes considers that there is still a clear division 2015 and on the board of the Defence the expected time commitment and of responsibilities at board level to ensure Science and Technology Laboratory requirement to discuss any changes an appropriate balance of power and Dstl appointed in June 2012.
He was to other significant commitments with authority so that there is no one person previously Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff the Chairman and Chief Executive in with unfettered powers of decision.
University from October 2001 to August advance, are available for inspection at The Board and Executive Board meet 2012.
The Company has dealings with the AGM and the registered office upon on a sufficiently regular basis to make these organisations from time to time, written request.
decisions of significance to the metrology such as grant-funded research projects, and healthcare business segments and None of the executive directors hold a or research, collaboration or supply review management actions.
It is intended directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
The Company confirms that this combined role will continue for that Sir David Grant has taken no Development so long as Sir David McMurtry remains part in decisions relating to any of the on the Board and he and John Deer Directors are offered the opportunity dealings between the Company and hold a majority of the voting interests in to attend formal training courses to these organisations.
update their knowledge of their duties as John Jeans was chair of the Council of directors.
Guidance notes, papers and The Chairman has no other significant Cardiff University from December 2011 presentations on changes to law and commitments as regards employment or until December 2015, is chair of Innovate regulations are provided as appropriate.
UKs Stratified Medicine Steering Group Non-executive directors are invited having been appointed in February 2014 Non-executive directors to attend internal conferences, which and was chair of MRC Technology from provide information to the Group on new Sir David Grant is the Senior Independent December 2008 until November 2014. product development and marketing Director and is available to discuss John has also been since March 2016 initiatives, as well as our investor days.
material concerns with shareholders interim Chair of the Scottish Medical Business presentations are given at board should the normal channels of the Device Hub at Strathclyde University.
meetings to provide updates on, and Chairman and Chief Executive or the The Company has dealings with these opportunities to discuss, products and Group Finance Director fail to resolve such organisations from time to time, such business strategies.
The non-executive directors as grant-funded research projects, meet without the executive directors An induction pack is provided to new or research, collaboration or supply present to discuss performance and appointees to the Board, and the agreements.
The Company confirms that other matters.
induction programme together with the John Jeans has taken no part in decisions continuing development programme relating to any of the dealings between the includes site visits and briefings by senior Company and these organisations.
managers, attendance at internal senior The dealings referred to above are not management conferences and external material i. e. in aggregate they are less trade shows, as well as foreign subsidiary than 0.5% of the Companys revenue for visits, as applicable.
For example, this the financial year ended 30th June 2016. year, non-executive directors visited Renishaws Miskin facility for the annual investor day and attended strategy days, as well as a board meeting at Renishaws Stone premises.
This has facilitated a deeper understanding of the Group, leadership team and Renishaws products and markets.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 73 Information and support Viability statement C. Accountability The Board receives appropriate The Board undertakes an annual review Financial and business reporting documentation, management accounts, of the corporate strategy, which includes The respective responsibilities of the forecasts and commentaries thereon medium term financial forecasts and an directors and auditor in connection with in advance of each board meeting assessment of the major risks facing the the financial statements are explained in to enable its members to review the business.
In addition, current financial year Directors responsibilities on page 90 and financial performance of the Group, forecasts are reviewed regularly by the the Independent auditors report on pages current trading and key business Board, underpinned by regular briefings 91 to 93. initiatives.
Regular financial updates from its business sectors and subsidiaries are also provided between meetings.
Fair, balanced and understandable on progress.
The corporate strategy The Company Secretary advises the provides the foundations for monitoring of The directors consider that the Annual Board on all governance matters.
performance, budgets, risk and strategic report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced All directors have access to the actions by the Board.
and understandable, and provides the Company Secretary and to independent information necessary for shareholders The Board confirms that its assessment professional advice at the Companys to assess the Groups performance, during the year of the principal risks expense where necessary to discharge business model and strategy.
facing the Group, including those that their responsibilities as directors.
would threaten its business model, future Going concern The appointment and removal of the performance, solvency and or liquidity, Company Secretary is a matter reserved The Groups strategy for delivering its and which are set out in the Groups for the Board.
objectives and business model, together Principal risks and uncertainties on with the factors likely to affect its future Evaluation pages 50 to 51, was robust.
In making development and performance are set the assessment, severe but plausible The Board and its committees undertake out in the Strategic report, where details scenarios have been considered that an annual evaluation of their performance.
of the financial and liquidity positions are estimate the potential impact of the The format of the evaluation varies also given.
In addition, note 20 to the principal risks on the financial forecasts each year.
financial statements includes the Groups over the assessment period.
objectives and policies for managing its The 2015 evaluation focused on capital, details of its financial instruments In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the improving the rolling forward agenda and hedging activities and its exposures Code, whilst the Board has no reason process and succession planning, to credit risk and liquidity risk.
to believe the Group will not be viable including overseas senior management.
over a longer period, the period over For 2016, Equity Communications Limited The Group has considerable financial which the Board considers it possible to which assisted with the last externally resources at its disposal and the form a reasonable expectation as to the facilitated evaluation in 2013 undertook directors have considered the current Groups longer-term viability, based on the interviews with the directors, discussing financial projections.
As a consequence, risk and sensitivity analysis undertaken, a list of subjects agreed by the Board.
the directors believe that the Group is the three-year period to 30th June The results of this evaluation will be is well placed to manage its business 2019, taking account of the Groups discussed early in the new financial year.
current position, financial forecasts, Equity Communications Limited has no After making enquiries, the directors have future prospects and the potential impact other connection with the Company.
a reasonable expectation that both the of the Principal risks and uncertainties Re-election Company and the Group have adequate documented in the Strategic report.
The Board believes that a three-year In accordance with the Code all the resources to continue in operation for the viability assessment period is appropriate directors will retire from the Board at the next twelve months.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern as the timeframe is covered by the next AGM and will offer themselves up for basis in preparing the Annual report Groups corporate strategy, takes account re-election or election as the case may and accounts.
of the Groups short order book and be at the AGM.
together with the planning process set out above, it gives management and the Board sufficient, realistic visibility on the future in the context of the industry and world economic environment.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 74 Governance Directors' corporate governance report continued On the basis of the above and other The Board ensures that there are D. Remuneration matters considered and reviewed by the effective internal controls over the The Directors remuneration report Board during the year, the Board has a financial reporting and consolidation explains how the Company applies the reasonable expectation that the Group processes.
Monthly accounts and Code principles relating to remuneration.
will be able to continue in operation and forecasts are presented to the Board for meet its liabilities as they fall due over the review.
The Group internal audit function E. Relations with shareholders period to 30th June 2019.
In assessing undertakes a review of subsidiaries Dialogue with shareholders the Groups viability over the next three accounting processes and performance The Board announced a new policy years, it is recognised that all future to provide assurance to the Board on the in the 2013 Annual report.
No private assessments are subject to a level of integrity of the information supplied by meetings will be held other than uncertainty that increases for the later each company forming part of the Groups shareholder meetings with the Chairman, part of the assessment period and that consolidated results.
Senior Independent Director and or any future outcomes cannot be guaranteed The Board undertakes an annual other non-executive director where a orpredicted with any certainty.
formal review of the effectiveness of shareholder has material issues, concerns Risk management and internal the Groups system of internal controls or questions.
The director attending control and an updated risk and controls such a meeting will communicate the analysis.
The review covers all material shareholders issues, concerns or The Board is responsible for the controls, including financial, operational questions to the Board.
The Boards Companys systems of risk management and compliance controls and risk response will be published on the and internal control, and for reviewing management systems.
Renishaw website for the benefit of their effectiveness.
Any system of internal all shareholders where appropriate.
control is designed to manage rather The Board has conducted a robust The interim and annual results and than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve assessment of the principal risks facing presentations are posted on the website business objectives and can only provide the Group, including those that would promptly after announcement of the reasonable and not absolute assurance threaten its business model, future results to the UK Listing Authority via against material misstatement or loss.
The Board is satisfied that there is an There are defined lines of responsibility and ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Open webcasts of presentations on delegation of authorities.
Established and and managing the significant risks facing annual and half-year results are held centrally documented control procedures the Group, that it has been in place and recordings of the presentations and also exist, including, for example, capital during the year, is regularly reviewed and the subsequent question and answer and other expenditure, information accords with the FRC guidance on risk sessions made available after the webcast and technology security and legal and management and control.
The Board on the Companys website.
These are applied confirms that necessary action has been brokers reports will be circulated to the throughout the Group.
or is being taken to remedy any significant Board.
The Board intends to hold open The Group internal audit function provides failings or weaknesses identified from discussions with any shareholder who independent and objective assurance that its review.
wishes to share views with the directors the control procedures are appropriate at the AGM or the annual investor day at Audit Committee and auditor and effectively applied.
The Group Audit which presentations on group strategy, Manager attends Audit Committee A description of the structure and activities business segments and product lines meetings to present annual internal audit of the Audit Committee are set out in the will be given by members of the Board plans and the results of such internal Audit Committee report on pages 77 and senior management, as well as to 79. audits.
Actions are monitored by the Audit tours covering the Groups activities.
Committee on an ongoing basis.
This year, 72 visitors attended the Companys investor day, which included There is an established process for the various Q&A sessions with the Board review of business risks throughout the during the day as well as an opportunity Group which has been enhanced in 2016 to ask questions during tours, lunch by the formation of an executive risk andrefreshment breaks.
committee as explained on page 48.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 75 Constructive use of the AGM Board and committee meeting The AGM takes place at the Companys attendance record headquarters or one of the Companys Shown against each directors name in the other sites and formal notification is sent table below is the number of scheduled to the shareholders at least 20 working meetings of the Board and its committees days before the meeting.
A business at which the director was present, and, presentation is given and all directors are in brackets, the number of meetings that available for questions during and after the director was eligible to attend during the meeting, including the chairs of the the year.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Tours of the Companys Compliance statement facilities are offered.
The Board considers that it has complied with the requirements of the Code Separate resolutions are proposed for throughout the year except in relation each substantially separate issue, and to the following matter the reasons all resolutions will be taken on a poll.
for non-compliance are stated in the The Company reports on the number report above : of votes lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against each resolution the combined role of Chairman and and the number of votes withheld.
This information is published via an RIS and on the Companys website following the meeting.
6 R Sir David Grant Senior Independent Director The information regarding share capital required to be disclosed by this rule is 27th July 2016 contained in the Other statutory and regulatory disclosures.
Board attendance record Meetings The following table sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings of the Board and committees during the year.
There were two adhoc Board meetings which were called on short notice, which are not included in this table.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Sir David McMurtry 10 10 1 1 D J Deer 10 10 B R Taylor 10 10 A C G Roberts 10 10 G McFarland 10 10 C T Chesney 10 10 4 4 4 4 1 1 1 K L Durrant 9 10 4 4 1 1 2 Sir David Grant 10 10 4 4 3 4 1 1 D J Jeans 10 10 4 4 4 4 1 1 1 One of the Board meetings was postponed on short notice due to a family bereavement but it was not possible for Kath Durrant to change prior arrangements to attend the re-scheduled meeting.
2 As Sir David Grant had prior commitments elsewhere, he was unable to attend this committee meeting due to a delayed close to the Board meeting that immediately preceded it.
