243977 Renewable R&A pp063-pp073 22 02 2017 16:00 Page 65 SECTION 8 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee has been in operation since the The Audit Committee meets the external auditor before and inception of the Company.
Chaired by Jon Bridel, it operates after their audit and has discussed with the auditor the scope within clearly defined terms of reference and comprises all of their annual audit work and also their audit findings.
The of the Directors other than the Chairman who is not a auditor attends the Audit Committee meetings at which the member in accordance with provision C3.1 of the UK annual and interim accounts are considered, and at which Corporate Governance Code.
It is also the formal forum they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee through which the auditor reports to the Board of Directors without representatives of the Managers being present.
The and met four times in 2016 it meets at least three times Audit Committee has direct access to the auditor and to key annually.
senior staff of the Investment Manager, and it reports its findings and recommendations to the Board which retains The main duties of the Audit Committee are: the ultimate responsibility for the financial statements of the giving full consideration and recommending to the Board Company.
for approval the contents of the half year and annual financial statements and reviewing the external auditors SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED report thereon including consideration of whether the After discussion with both the Managers and the external financial statements are overall fair, balanced and auditor, the Audit Committee determined that the key risks understandable: of misstatement of the Companys financial statements related to the valuation of the investments.
agreeing with the auditor the external audit plan including discussing with the external auditor the key risk areas VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS within the financial statements: As outlined in Note 13 to the financial statements, the total considering and understanding the key risks of carrying value of the investments at fair value excluding the misstatement of the financial statements and formulating fair value of TRIG UK as at 31 December 2016 was an appropriate plan to review these and agreeing with the 818.7 million.
Market quotations are not available for these Managers their processes to manage these risk areas: financial assets, and as such, their valuation is undertaken using a discounted cash flow methodology.
This requires a reviewing the Viability and Going Concern Statements series of material judgements to be made as further and reviewing the work prepared by the Investment explained in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Manager supporting these statements: The valuation process and methodology were discussed by reviewing the draft valuation of the Companys the Audit Committee with the Investment Manager at the investments prepared by the Investment Manager and time of the interim review, in November 2016 prior to the making a recommendation to the Board on the valuation: year-end valuation process and again in February 2017 as reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, part of the year-end sign off process.
The Committee met independence and objectivity of the external auditor as with the auditor when it reviewed and agreed the auditors well as reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit Group audit plan and also at the conclusion of the audit of process and making any recommendations to the Board the financial statements, in particular discussing the for improvement of the audit process: valuation process.
The Investment Manager carries out a reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval valuation semi-annually and provides a detailed valuation the audit, audit related and non-audit fees payable to the report to the Company.
external auditor or their affiliated firms overseas and the terms of their engagement: VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS KEY FORECAST ASSUMPTIONS reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys The Audit Committee considered in detail those accounting policies: assumptions that are subject to judgement that have a ensuring the standards and adequacy of the internal material impact on the valuation.
The key assumptions are: control systems: Power price assumptions to consider any reports or information received in respect A significant proportion of the wind and solar projects of whistleblowing: and income streams are contracted subsidy streams and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its duties.
power income under long-term PPAs: some of which have fixed price mechanisms.
However over time the None of the members of the Audit Committee have any proportion of power income that is fixed reduces and the involvement in the preparation of the financial statements of proportion where the Company has exposure to the Company, as this has been contracted to the Investment wholesale electricity prices increases.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 65 243977 Renewable R&A pp063-pp073 22 02 2017 16:00 Page 66 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued expect electricity prices to increase in real terms i. e. Committee.
On the basis of their audit work there were no ahead of inflation over the medium and long term.
The adjustments proposed that were material in the context of Investment Manager considers the forecasts provided by the financial statements as a whole.
expert energy advisors and adopts a profile of assumed Internal Controls and Risk Management future power prices by jurisdiction.
Further detail on the The Board is responsible for the Companys system of assumptions made in relation to power prices and other internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has variables that may be expected to affect these are therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet included in the Valuation section of the Strategic Report.
the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks Macroeconomic assumptions to which it is exposed.
Macroeconomic assumptions include inflation, interest The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal and tax rate assumptions.
The Investment Managers control through a matrix which identifies the key functions assumptions in this area are set out and explained in the carried out by the Investment Manager, Operations Manager Valuation section of the Strategic Report.
and other service providers: the various activities Other key income and costs assumptions undertaken within those functions: the risks associated with Other key assumptions include operating costs, facility each activity: and the controls employed to minimise and energy generation levels and facility remaining operating mitigate those risks.
A scoring based on 1 to 5 for Likelihood life assumptions.
and 1 to 5 for Impact is used and these are multiplied together to give a total score.
Mitigation is considered on a The Investment Manager has discussed and agreed the scale of 1 to 5 and this leads to a residual risk rating being valuation assumptions with the Audit Committee.
The matrix is updated on an on-going basis and to the key judgements underpinning the valuation, the reviewed quarterly and the Board considers all material Investment Manager has provided sensitivities showing the changes to the risk ratings and the action which has been, impact of changing these assumptions and these have been or is being, taken.
By their nature, these procedures will reviewed by the Investment Manager and the Audit provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against Committee.
VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS VALUATION DISCOUNT At each Board meeting, the Board also monitors the Groups RATES investment performance and it reviews the Groups activities The discount rates adopted to determine the valuation are since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Investment selected and recommended by the Investment Manager.
The Manager is adhering to the Companys investment policy discount rate is applied to the expected future cash flows for and approved investment guidelines.
The pipeline of new each investments financial forecasts derived adopting the potential opportunities is considered and the prices paid for assumptions explained above, amongst others, to arrive at new investments during the quarter are also reviewed.
a valuation discounted cash flow valuation.
The resulting Further, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports valuation is sensitive to the discount rate selected.
The from the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect Investment Manager is experienced and active in the area of compliance matters and duties they have performed on of valuing these investments and adopts discount rates behalf of the Company.
reflecting its current extensive experience of the market.
It is noted however that this requires subjective judgement and The Board has considered the need for an internal audit that there is a range of discount rates which could be function and it has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Investment Manager, the Operations applied.
The discount rate assumptions and the sensitivity Manager and the Administrator, including their own internal of the valuation of the investments to this discount rate are review processes and processes in place in relation to the set out in the Valuation section of the Strategic Report.
Company, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system The Audit Committee discussed with the Investment of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, Manager the process adopted to arrive at the selected is maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Group valuation discount rates which includes comparison with is therefore considered unnecessary.
other market transactions and an independent review of The Board recognises that these control systems can only valuation discount rates both at December 2015 and at be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of December 2016 and satisfied itself that the rates applied failure to achieve business objectives, and to provide were appropriate.
The external auditor explained the results reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material of their review of the valuation, including their consideration misstatement or loss, and relies on the operating controls of the Companys underlying cash flow projections, the established by the Companys Administrator, the Investment economic assumptions and discount rates to the Audit 66 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 243977 Renewable R&A pp063-pp073 22 02 2017 16:00 Page 67 subsidiaries, TRIG UK and TRIG UK Investments, and Manager and the Operations Manager.
The Board considers 196,043 related to audit of the Groups project subsidiaries on a periodic basis whether further third party assurance is and other audit related services.
The only non-audit services appropriate.
provided by Deloitte in the year to the Company and its The Investment Manager prepares management accounts subsidiaries are in relation to the review of the interim and updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which financial statements at the half year 26,000. allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
The Board and the Investment Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, considers Deloitte LLP to be independent of the Company return targets, risk appetite, and exposure limits.
Reports on and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a these performance measures, coupled with cash projections threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board at the audit.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the The Operations Manager prepares quarterly project external auditor, the Audit Committee considered: performance and project financial analysis, and highlights changes in audit personnel in the audit plan for the current the key activities performed and any specific new risks period: identified relating to the operating portfolio for consideration a report from the external auditor describing their by the Board.
arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and Appointment of the External Auditor Deloitte LLP was appointed to be external auditor for the the extent of non-audit services provided by the external TRIG Group on 19 September 2013, following a competitive auditor.
This process involved a review of the To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, audit proposals and interviewing and challenging of each the Audit Committee reviewed: firm.
the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan The objectivity of the external auditor is reviewed by the and variations from it: Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which the external auditor may be appointed to perform non-audit reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the services.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and course of the audit: and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the the effectiveness and independence of the external independence and objectivity of the auditor, with particular auditor having considered the degree of diligence and regard to any non-audit work that the auditor may undertake.
professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Audit Committee ensures that any other advisory and or The Audit Committee notes the requirements of the UK consulting services provided by the external auditor does Corporate Governance Code and in particular the not conflict with their statutory audit responsibilities.
requirement to put the external audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
This is the fourth year of Deloittes Advisory and or consulting services generally only cover appointment as the Companys auditor.
The Audit Partner reviews of interim financial statements, tax compliance and for the Company is David Becker and he has been in place capital raising work.
Any non-audit services conducted by for three years.
the external auditor outside of these areas which are above 20,000 in aggregate in any period require the consent of The Audit Committee is satisfied with Deloittes effectiveness the Audit Committee before being initiated.
The external and independence as auditor having considered the degree auditor may not undertake any work for the Company in of diligence and professional scepticism demonstrated by respect of the following matters preparation of the them.
As such, the Committee has not considered it financial statements, valuations used in financial statements, necessary during this period to conduct a tender process for provision of investment advice, taking management the appointment of its auditors for the year ended decisions or advocacy work in adversarial situations.
The Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, The Audit Committee confirms that TRIG has complied with its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large of the auditor, with particular regard to the level of non-audit Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of fees.
Total fees paid amounted to 287,533 for the period Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee ended 31 December 2016 of which 91,490 related to audit Responsibilities Order 2014 since it became a member of and audit related services to the Company and its the FTSE 350 Index on 18 December 2015 and up to THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 67 243977 Renewable R&A pp063-pp073 22 02 2017 16:00 Page 68 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued 31 December 2016.
Deloitte were appointed as external auditor in 2013 following a competitive process and our Audit Committee terms of reference are in line with the Order.
The Committee intends to conduct a full review of Deloitte following the issue of these financial statements as it did in 2016 to ensure that the Committee considers all aspects of the auditors service and performance.
The outcome of the review in May 2016 was positive and led to no material concerns over the performance of the auditor.
Having satisfied itself that the external auditor remain independent and effective, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed as auditor for the period ending 31 December 2017.
68 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016
