Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 51 Corporate Governance Report Statement of compliance In addition, although not yet required to, the Company has fully complied The principal governance framework applying to the Company is the UK with the requirements of the 2016 Code and details of how the Company Corporate Governance Code, published in September 2014 theCode.
has adhered to the amended elements contained in the 2016 Code are A revised Code was published in April 2016 which applies to accounting disclosed in the Audit Committee Report on pages 62 and 65.
The Code periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016 the 2016 Code.
This andthe 2016 Code are published by the Financial Reporting Council contained some minor amendments to section C3, which is the Code the FRC and their full texts are available on its website at frc.
Principle regarding Board arrangements for the application of corporate The role of the Board reporting and risk management and internal control principles, as well as the relationship with the Companys auditors.
The 2016 Code will not The Boards role is to govern the Company within a framework of apply to the Company until the financial year ending 31December 2017. prudent and effective controls that enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It operates to ensure that the Company is delivering excellent The Company has complied throughout 2016 with the requirements of operational performance and innovative services for its customers the Code.
The Corporate Governance Report, in addition to the Audit, in order to create sustainable, long-term value for shareholders.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee Reports, details how the Board sets the Companys strategic aims, based on recommendations Company has applied the main principles of the Code.
made by the Chief Executive, and ensures that sufficient resources are available for the successful execution of these aims.
The Board is kept abreast of performance and of any major developments affecting the Code Principles regarding Leadership and Effectiveness business by reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer See the Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 60 and the at each Board meeting.
The Board strives to operate in an ethical and Nomination Committee Report on pages 67 to 70. transparent manner at all times and sets the tone for the Company from Code Principles regarding Accountability See the Corporate the top.
Governance Report on pages 46 to 60 and the Audit Committee Details of the governance framework within which the Board operates Report on pages 61 to 66. to discharge its responsibilities can be found on pages 57 and 58.
Code Principles regarding Remuneration See the Directors This framework along with clearly communicated authority guidelines Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86. provides the Board with confidence that the appropriate decisions are being taken at the appropriate levels and further allows the Board to Code Principles regarding Relations with Shareholders ensure that its obligations to the Companys shareholders and other See the Corporate Governance Report on pages 59 and 60. stakeholders are being met.
Further key areas which set out our approach to applying the Code can be found in the Annual Report as detailed below.
See our business model, value generation and strategy in our Strategic Report on pages 1 to 33.
See our approach to risk management and internal control on page 58 and in our Risk and Uncertainties section on pages 34 to39.
See our Directors Report on pages 151 to 153.
See the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 153.
Board experience Sector Board experience percentage Total 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Professional services 75% Engineering aerospace 75% Retail 63% Financial services 63% Manufacturing operations 63% Hospitality food processing 50% Technology 25% Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 52 Corporate Governance Report Board composition and roles The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
They are advised and supported by the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and their key responsibilities are set out in the table below.
Leading and managing the Board.
Leading the Non-Executive Directors appraisal Chairman Senior of the Chairman.
Setting the agenda and managing the John McAdam Independent Boardstime.
Working with the Chairman on Board Director effectiveness.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Providing an alternative channel of Alan Giles communication for investors, primarily on Director induction, training and development.
Building a well-balanced Board, considering Being a sounding board for the Chairman.
succession planning and its composition.
Chairing the Nomination Committee when it is Performance evaluation of the Board and considering succession to the role of Chairman ChiefExecutive.
Recommending and executing strategies and Chief Executive Contributing independent challenge and rigour.
Independent Andy Ransom Assisting in the development of the Companys Managing operational and financial Non-Executive strategy.
performance, including monthly performance Directors reviews with all regions and identifying and Ensuring the integrity of the financial information, managing risks to delivery of strategy.
controls and risk management processes.
Richard Burrows With the Chief Financial Officer, explaining Monitoring the performance of the Executive Chris Geoghegan performance to shareholders.
Directors against agreed goals and objectives.
Alan Giles Chairing the Executive Leadership Team and Advising and being a sounding board for Angela SeymourInvestment Committee see page 58.
Executive Directors and senior management.
Jackson Executive management capability and Julie Southern development.
Overall development of Group policies and communicating the Companys values.
Responsibility for all corporate responsibility Secretary to the Board and each of its Company matters which are reviewed at least annually by Committees, reporting directly to their the Board and by the Executive Leadership Team.
Daragh Fagan Assisting the Chairman and Senior Independent Director in their evaluation of the Boards effectiveness.
Supporting the Chief Executive in developing Chief Financial Advising the Board and its Committees on and implementing strategy.
Officer & Chief governance matters and managing effective Supporting the Chief Executive in managing corporate governance and compliance Information theoperational and financial performance of arrangements for the Board and the Group.
Officer Facilitating Board induction and development With the Chief Executive, explaining Jeremy Townsend programmes.
Chairing the Group Risk Committee and Disclosure Committee seepage58.
Recommending appropriate financing, treasury and distribution arrangements.
Executing the agreed IT strategy.
Full details of all Board members who served during 2016 can be found All Directors may serve on a number of other boards, provided that on pages 48 and 49. they can demonstrate that any such appointment will not interfere with their time commitment to the Company and that they obtain the prior The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief agreement of the Chairman before proceeding.
This also ensures that Executive is set out in writing.
Non-Executive Directors have regular any potential conflicts of interest are considered and addressed.
The opportunities to meet with members of executive management and major commitments of the Directors are shown in their biographical also hold discussions under the leadership of the Chairman without information on pages 48 and 49.
Currently Non-Executive Directors are executive members present.
At least once a year, Non-Executive obliged to commit at least 20 days a year and the Chairman is obliged Directors meet under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director tocommit at least two days aweek to the Company.
without the Chairman being present.
During the year, the Board considered the external commitments of A Nomination Committee comprising all the Independent Non-Executive all of its Directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their Directors and chaired by the Chairman has responsibility for managing duties and time commitments as Directors of the Company.
Changes the appointment process to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent to the commitments of all Directors are reported to the Board.
Directors procedure for appointing Directors.
Pro-forma letters of appointment regularly review a conflicts register and any conflicts identified and Directors service contracts are available for public inspection at are submitted to the Board for consideration and, as appropriate, rentokil-initial.
Further information can be found in the Nomination authorisation in accordance with our Articles of Association and the Committee Report on pages 67 to 70.
Nomaterial conflicts have been declared.
Furtherdetails of this process can be found in the Nomination The Board considers that it and its Committees have an appropriate Committee Report on page 70.
Details of the Directors share interests composition to discharge their duties effectively and to manage inthe Company can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 81. succession issues.
The Board keeps its membership and that of its Committees under review to ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 53 Corporate Governance Report Independence of Board members The independence of Directors is reviewed as part of the individual Director performance evaluation process, to ensure that all NonExecutive Board members retain the necessary independence of Board meeting judgement.
This continues to be reflected in constructive challenge to attendance 2016 the executive team and senior management at Board and Committee meetings, and during informal interaction outside those meetings.
The Board considers that an individuals independence cannot be determined arbitrarily on the basis of a particular period of service.
In the case of Richard Burrows and Alan Giles, who have served as Directors for nine years and ten years respectively, the Board benefits from their John McAdam Andy Ransom Jeremy Townsend considerable experience and knowledge resulting from the length of Attendance 100% Attendance 100% Attendance 100% service as well as from their wider business experience.
The Board Attended: 10 Attended: 10 Attended: 10 Potential: 10 Potential: 10 Potential: 10 continues to consider both Non-Executive Directors as independent.
Despite this, Alan Giles has decided to step down from the Board following the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 10 May 2017.
All the remaining Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, have also been determined by the Board to be independent, having 1 2 Peter Bamford Richard Burrows Chris Geoghegan retained their independence of character and judgement.
In making this Attendance 100% Attendance 100% Attendance 75% determination the Board has taken into account indicators of potential Attended: 4 Attended: 10 Attended: 3 Potential: 4 Potential: 10 Potential: 4 non-independence as set out in the Code.
No Director took part in the Boards consideration of their own independence.
Meetings and attendance Board meetings Alan Giles Angela SeymourJulie Southern The Board met 10 times during the year, all of which were scheduled Attendance 100% Jackson Attendance 100% meetings, and a Committee of the Board met five times in relation to the Attended: 10 Attended: 10 Attendance 100% release of financial results, trading updates and the approval of the joint Potential: 10 Potential: 10 Attended: 10 venture with Haniel in December.
Potential: 10 The membership and attendance at Board meetings during 2016 is shown opposite.
Peter Bamford resigned from the Board on 11 May 2016.
Whilst Chris Geoghegan joined the Board on 28 June 2016, he was 2.
Chris Geoghegan was appointed to the Board on 28 June 2016. unable to attend the first Board meeting following his appointment as aNon-Executive Director due to commitments arranged prior to his appointment.
This Board meeting was held in Charlotte, North Carolina and was accompanied by site visits to the former Steritech offices and acommercial customers premises, as detailed on page 55.
Asin all cases where a Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, Chris received copies of all papers and the Chairman sought his views and provided a briefing on outcomes from both the meeting and the site visit.
Directors tenure at 22 February 2017 Name Date Appointed Years 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 John McAdam 14 May 2008 Andy Ransom 1 May 2008 Jeremy Townsend 31 August 2010 Richard Burrows 14 January 2008 Chris Geoghegan 28 June 2016 Alan Giles 18 May 2006 Angela Seymour-Jackson 5 March 2012 Julie Southern 21 July 2014 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 54 Corporate Governance Report Board activities in 2016 The Chairmans introduction highlights some of the key areas of focus for the Board in 2016.
In addition to these, the Board receives regular updates on the Groups financial results, and receives reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer at each meeting as standing items.
Each Board meeting starts with a review of health and safety performance.
The Board also receives reports from the Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees following each committee meeting.
Further details of the main activities of the Board undertaken during 2016 can be found below.
Strategy Operations Financial 33% 25% 19% Regional presentations Regional presentations and Approval of the 2015 financial customer visit statements Strategy away day Overseas site visit Review of the Interim Results and Review of non-core businesses Q1 and Q3 Trading Updates Approval of the 2016 Annual Talent strategy and succession Operating Plan Dividend treatment and review recommendation approval Key contract wins Diversity and inclusion strategy Review of financial performance Innovation Read more about our key Approval of treasury policies and contract wins on page 2.
Read more about our innovation funding on pages 4 and 5.
Investor relations Read more in our Financial Review on pages 91 to 93.
Mergers and acquisitions M&A Governance Monitoring and oversight 10% 7 % 6% Performance review of completed Board evaluation Safety, health and environment acquisitions including delivery of reports Approval of the 2015 Annual integration plans Report and 2016 Notice of Meeting Review of key risks and internal Oversight of M&A pipeline controls Approval of 2015 Corporate Major acquisitions above 10m Responsibility Report Review of KPIs Joint venture with Haniel Governance manual and review Reports from the Committee chairs Conflicts of interest Review of material disputes Read more about our valuePolicies and procedures under the Going concern enhancing M&A on page 3.
Market Abuse Regulation Viability statement Setting 2018 Board calendar Read more about our KPIs on Forward-looking governance pages32 and 33. review Disclosure obligations Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 55 Corporate Governance Report Board site visit As in previous years, one scheduled Board meeting involved a visit to one of the Companys overseas operations, and in 2016 it was to the US, which had become the largest business in the Group by revenue following the acquisition of Steritech in 2015.
At the end of June, the Board visited the Companys business in Charlotte, North Carolina where the Directors undertook a tour of the head office, which had been acquired with Steritech.
The Board had the opportunity to meet the extended management team of the business and conducted a detailed review of the business in North America generally, which had last been visited in 2013.
The Board received several presentations, with particular focus being given to the brand standards auditing business acquired as part of the Steritech group, and the strategic Best of Breed plan in place to advance the North American business over the next four years.
The Board also visited the premises of a commercial customer, Chef Charles Catering, tosee how a brand standards audit is conducted.
Board strategy review In addition to Board and Board Committee meetings, the Board undertakes an annual strategy away day each year.
This is structured tofollow a scheduled Board meeting and is spread over the course of two days.
The agenda for the strategy away day is agreed in advance, often including specific strategic issues which have been raised at previous Board meetings, or requested by the Board.
In 2016 the strategy away day focused on executing the next phase of the Companys strategy, the three-year financial plan and the strategy for the key businesses of Pest Control, Hygiene and Workwear.
There were also reviews of strategic plans for brand standards, plants and premium scenting, as well as market perspectives on the Company from our brokers and a review of the portfolio.
The Board was pleased to see how the strategy set in 2014 was delivering successfully and at the strategy day was encouraged to see the priorities and ambition being articulated in the next phase of Case study Site visit in South Africa the strategy.
In 2017, the Board will continue to meet with the senior management teams from all five regions as part of the annual scheduled As part of his induction as a Non-Executive Director, Chris Geoghegan deep dive into each business.
visited the Cape Town offices of Rentokil Initial for a day in November 2016.
The Rentokil Initial South Africa business incorporates Pest Board performance, training and development Control, Hygiene and Ambius, and all three of these businesses The Board ensures that the Directors continue to provide suitable havepremises inClaremont, Cape Town.
Chris started his visit with leadership for the Company through a regular performance evaluation atour of all three, meeting Initial Branch Manager, Louw Moller, and process, training processes, Board succession planning and annual Pest Control and Ambius Branch Manager, Sedick Williams.
Walking through the Hygiene business, Chris spent some time with Director induction process Louw in the storeroom, discussing the measures the branch has Following the appointment of any new Director, the Chairman, in putin place to combat stock loss and the excessive use of refills.
conjunction with the Company Secretary and Group HR Director, InAmbius, Chris was taken through the greenhouse where plants ensures that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is made arestored and potted and had a discussion with Sedick around available.
The induction process is summarised below.
He was also taken to see the largeaccounts receivable team, and the Customer Support Centre: On appointment the Company Secretary provides information on the ateamof 14 who handle the bulk of Rentokils residential pest Groups businesses, including: controlenquiries.
Board and relevant Committee minutes and Board papers from the prior year: He finished the afternoon with a business review session with key policies and procedures and governance information about DavidLewis, the Managing Director of Rentokil Sub-Saharan Africa, the Company, including the role of the Board, Board and Executive and Nombeko Langeni, HR Director.
This session had a particular Committees, Chairman and Chief Executive: and focus on our colleagues at Rentokil Initial and Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment, which is an issue unique to South Africa.
guidance for directors on their legal and regulatory responsibilities in a UK publicly listed company, including briefings, on request, from the Companys external legal advisors.
Before and after the first Board meeting the new Director will attend: business briefings with the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer: meetings with other members of the Executive Leadership Team and senior management: visits to sites within the UK and or overseas, including opportunities tospend time with frontline staff in the course of their duties: and meetings with the auditor, financial advisors and corporate brokers.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 56 Corporate Governance Report Training and development The evaluation process involves a customised online questionnaire Where appropriate, Directors participate in peer group discussion and commentary, moderated by Lintstock and capable of being forums and seminars related to the commercial environment benchmarked against peers and previous years responses.
The and targeted at specific needs, for example relating to executive evaluation is initiated immediately following the strategy away day with remuneration, financial reporting or risk management.
Training also responses collated and analysed by year end.
There are then reviews covers the Group, its business sectors and governance matters more of the results with the Chairman, committee chairs, Senior Independent generally, including individual experiences with frontline staff.
Director and individual Directors ahead of a group discussion at the Board meeting in February.
Performance evaluation The performance evaluation in 2016 covered the Boards composition, A comprehensive evaluation of the Board, its Committees and each including aspects relevant to the current and prospective shape of of the Directors is carried out annually, a process led by the Chairman the business, its effectiveness and cohesiveness, the allocation of and supported by the Company Secretary.
This was once again its time, the quality of the information and support provided to it, and undertaken in 2016 using an external independent facilitator, Lintstock.
an assessment of its performance in conducting risk oversight, talent Lintstock is a specialist corporate governance consultancy and has no reviews and a number of other topics previously identified as of key commercial dealings, or any other connection, with the Group, other relevance.
As in 2015, this years review included an assessment of than for the provision of corporate governance services to the Board thestrategy away day.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured and the provision of software to manage the Companys insider lists inorder to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
requirements under the Market Abuse Regulation.
The Board considered the output from the 2016 review at its meeting inFebruary 2017, as detailed below.
2015 actions Progress 2016 actions Continuing with deep dive reviews of As detailed on page 55, the Board site visit Focus on the performance of the Operational all five regional businesses, the core in 2016 was in Charlotte, North Carolina.
business categories and key functions: implementing All five regions provided in-depth reviews Monitor portfolio and growth reviews reviews of the control environment with with an additional review of Latin America strategy: maintain regional deep dive regional Finance Directors at the Audit also undertaken during 2016.
Committee or with its Chairman.
The Board information is on page 58. plans to visit North America in June 2016.
Continuing the progress in this area, and The Audit Committee received an in-depth Review the effectiveness of the Risk oversight considering key or new risks in depth, such update on cyber security which was then additional support for the North as emerging markets or cyber security: reported to the Board see page 61.
monitoring key operational risks such Board reviewed the status of acquisitions Review internal controls in the light of as the integration of Steritech and other on two occasions during the year, including broader M&A growth strategy.
North American acquisitions in 2015, and their risks.
Review scope of Audit Committee performance of the Workwear business The strategy away day included a focus Terms of Reference to consider especially in France and Benelux.
on quality strategy on Workwear and whether to include certain nonreviewing progress against key indicators.
Maintain focus on refreshing the Boards All Non-Executive Directors are now Nomination Committee review of Succession range of skills as new appointments members of the Nomination Committee Board and executive succession.
planning and are made, and succession planning for as detailed in the Committees Report on Aim for exposure of key Executive talent Executive and Non-Executive Directors: page 68, where information on succession Director and ELT succession extending the membership of the planning is also provided.
management Nomination Committee to include all Review progress and performance of Non-Executive Directors.
A new talent strategy has been approved talent pools and talent strategy.
during the year, with details provided in the Review diversity performance Spending additional time on Executive Nomination Committee Report on page 68. including gender pay reporting.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 57 Corporate Governance Report Governance framework Audit Committee 31 P P P Pr r r ro o o ov v v vid iiid d fide e e es s s s e e e eff ff ff ffe e e ec c c ct t t tiiiiv v v five e e e n n n nanci a a an n nc c ciiial governance w w w wiiiit t t th h h h o o o ov v v ver e e er r rs s s sig iiig g gh h h ht t t t o o o of f f f t t t the h h he e e Groups financial a an a an n nd d d d n n n nar a a ar r rr r r rat a a at t tiiiive reporting, risk Nomination Committee Remuneration m m m man an a an na a a ag g g gemen emen e em me en nt and the external E E En n ns s su u ur r re e es t s s t th h he e e c c co o or r rr r re e ec c ct t t b b balance, structure an a a an n nd d d d i i iinternal audit process.
Committee a a an n nd c d d c co o om m mp p po o os s siiition of the Board Find out more on Reviews and recommends to the Board a a an n nd i d d iit t ts C s s C Co o om m mmittees, and reviews pages 61 to 66. the executive remuneration policy B B Bo o oa a ar r rd d d an a an nd executive succession and determines the remuneration p p planning and diversity.
packages of the Executive Directors Find out more on and senior management.
The Board of Directors Collectively responsible for the governance of the Company, the Board ensures that it is effective at undertaking its duties Chief through the use of clear authority Executive and reporting governance M M M Man an a an na a a ag g g ges es e es s t t t the he h he e o o o overall structures.
p p p pe e e er r r rfo fo f fo or r r rm m m ma a a an n n nce of the b b b bu u u us s s sin in iin fines es e es ss s s s an an a an nd, with senior m m m man an a an na a a ag g g gemen emen e em me en nt, implements t t t the he h he e Groups strategies Management and values.
Senior Committees management A A A Ap p p pp p p po o o oiiiin n n nt t t te e e ed b d b d d b by y y t y t t th h h he e e B e B B Bo o o oa a a ard with specic T T The h he e d da da ay y y- - -t t to o o- - -d d da a ay operational r r r re e e em m m miiiit t t ts s s t s t t to a o a o o a au u u ut t t th h h ho o o or r r rise within their m m man an ana a ag g gemen emen ement t t of the Company.
ap a a appr p pp p pr r ro o o oved limits.
E E Ex xe xe ec c cu u ut t tiiiv v five Leadership Team D D D Diiis is s sc c c clos los llo os sure Committee S S Se e eni n niior Leadership Forum G G G Gr r r roup Risk Committee category boards I I IInvestment Committee Treasury Committee Find out more on page 58.
Matters reserved for the Board and delegated authorities To ensure a clear division of responsibilities at the top of the Company between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for running the Companys business, the Board has set out in writing matters which are specically reserved for its decision.
The matters reserved for the Board and the terms of reference of each of its Committees, which are reviewed annually most recently on 7 December 2016, are available on the Companys website at rentokil-initial.
The Boards governance procedures delegate the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses to the Chief Executive who in turn cascades authority to the wider management population through a documented schedule of authorities, setting out responsibilities, decision-making and approval powers of managers at different levels in the organisation.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 58 Corporate Governance Report Category boards Management committees There are category boards for Pest Control, Hygiene and Workwear.
Disclosure Committee These are forums where the senior operational and functional leaders The Companys Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial of the relevant category meet to coordinate the development agenda Officer, supports the Boards responsibility for the accuracy and for growth and productivity initiatives and to oversee the sharing of timeliness of the disclosures made by the Company, whether in best practice.
They meet at least quarterly with the Pest Control and connection with its financial reporting obligations or other matters.
Hygiene category board being chaired by the Chief Executive, while Group Risk Committee theWorkwear board is chaired by the Managing Director, Europe.
The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, Monitoring and oversight includes senior functional executives with day-to-day responsibility for the internal control environment covering financial, HR and IT systems, Strategic process legal and regulatory compliance and the Director of Risk & Internal The Executive Directors and senior management closely monitor Auditas well as a representative of operational management.
The progress against the Companys strategy and this is communicated Group Risk Committee supports the Audit Committee and executive to the Board at each meeting by the Chief Executive and the Chief management by: Financial Officers reports.
All Board members attend an annual strategy away day and details of this can be found on page 55.
In addition, the providing oversight of the framework for managing risk throughout Board receives detailed presentations from the Regional Managing theGroup: Directors of the Company and their Finance Directors over the course providing oversight of the processes for reviewing the effectiveness of the year.
These review the operations and strategy of the region, of the Group risk management framework and internal control highlight specific areas of progress or challenge, review the financial systems: and control environment, and present the opportunity for the Board assisting the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the risks to challenge management on any area.
In 2016, as in 2015, the Board the Group is prepared to take and monitoring emerging risks: and received an additional deep dive review on our emerging business determining internal responsibility for appropriate mitigating region of Latin America.
Board review of risk management and internal control Copies of the minutes of the Group Risk Committee are provided to the The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining sound systems Audit Committee.
Further information on the Boards approach to risk of risk management and internal control that are both fully effective can be found below.
and ensure compliance with the Code on internal control and risk management.
Risks are considered in the context of long-term strategic Investment Committee and emerging threats, and shorter-term risks to the delivery of the The Companys Investment Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive annual operating plan.
The Board has also assessed the viability of and including the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the Group over a period of three years, and the potential impact of the Company Secretary, reviews and approves investments below the the principal risks and stress testing financial forecasts for severe but threshold requiring approval by the Board, including M&A transactions, plausible scenarios, and the anticipated effectiveness of mitigating property sales and investments and environmental remediation actions.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal expenditures.
It also conducts post-acquisition reviews PARs of risks facing the Company, including those that would impact its business completed M&A transactions and reviews material litigation quarterly.
The principal risks identified can be Treasury Committee found in the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 34 to 39, along The Board has established a Treasury Committee, comprising the Chief with the Companys viability statement.
Financial Officer and four other senior functional executives in order to The framework of risk management and internal control described in delegate authority within specified limits for critical aspects of treasury the Audit Committee Report on page 65 is designed to manage and operations.
The Committee reviews and approves capital structure mitigate risk rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business and financing strategy as well as risk and cash management within set objectives.
In pursuing business objectives, internal controls and risk thresholds.
management can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Senior management and category boards against material misstatement or loss.
Review of its effectiveness is achieved through regular and transparent management reporting, the Executive Leadership Team governance processes and external and internal assurance processes, To support the Chief Executive in managing the business at Group and in the Audit Committee and Boards annual review of strategy and level the Executive Leadership Team has been established under the operational risks.
Chief Executives chairmanship and comprises the Groups operational heads for its five regions and the heads of the Finance & IT, Human The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of Resources and Marketing & Innovation functions, as well as the Group internal control for the year ended 31 December 2016 and confirms that: General Counsel & Company Secretary.
They meet regularly to review the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and safety, performance, operational plans and actions, governance and managing the significant risks faced by the Group: risk management.
Biographical information on the Executive Leadership this process has been in place for the year under review and up to Team is provided on page 50. thedate of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: Senior Leadership Forum the process is regularly reviewed by the Board: and The Chief Executive has also established the Senior Leadership Forum the process operates in accordance with the Code.
comprising the 26 most senior operational and functional colleagues globally who meet to share progress and discuss a range of issues that are critical to the operational performance of the Group as a whole.
The forum meets on a monthly basis other than in August.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 59 Corporate Governance Report Fair balanced and understandable Formal reporting The Directors statement on fair, balanced and understandable can be The Company publishes a half yearly unaudited interim statement at found on page 153.
The requirement under the Code to provide a fair, the end of July or early August as well as audited financial statements balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position which are announced in February and circulated to shareholders in early and prospects in its external reporting is considered throughout the April.
Whilst no longer mandatory, the Company continues to provide process of producing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
quarterly trading updates each year in April and October.
Wewill In order to provide the information necessary to comply with this continue to keep under review our quarterly reporting practice, and requirement, the Board places particular reliance on the conclusions seek shareholders views on the benefits of doing so.
and recommendations arising from the Audit Committees review of the As at the year end, almost 87% of the Companys shareholders Annual Report and Financial Statements, further details of which can be were electing to obtain their primary information on the Company found on page 63.
In addition, the Board has oversight and takes into through electronic communications and the Companys website.
The account the following elements: Company strongly encourages shareholders to use electronic means the Chairman and Chief Executive provide input and agree on key for accessing shareholder communications, saving resources and elements to be included which set the tone and balance of the cost thatwould be involved in distributing printed material a copy of Strategic Report: the Annual Report costs almost 20 to print and post.
Shareholders all contributors to the Annual Report are made aware of the who elect to receive electronic communications can revert to paper requirement for content to be fair, balanced and understandable: communications at a future time, if they so wish.
The Company annually regular review meetings are held with the appropriate senior writes to its new shareholders to inform them that they will receive their shareholder communications electronically unless they elect otherwise.
management to ensure consistency of the whole document: extensive review and verification processes are undertaken by Aside from the Annual Report, the Companys website rentokil-initial.
com the appropriate departments and senior managers to ensure the contains information on the Companys operations and services.
The accuracy of the content: and Investor section contains information on past results and publications, additional independent internal reviews are undertaken to ensure press releases and analyst presentation material as well as dividend thatany perceived lack of clarity, balance or understanding in the history.
It also contains information to help shareholders manage their Annual Report is identified.
holdings, including providing the contact details of our Registrar, who manages all share administration on the Companys behalf.
Engagement with shareholders The Board fulfils its obligations of accountability to shareholders through Additional information for investors can be found on pages 154 and 155. clearand open reporting on current performance and plans for the future, engagement with shareholders and investor representative bodies, andtaking into account the views expressed by shareholders.
Details of substantial share interests notified to the Company are contained onpage 152.
Shareholder engagement in 2016 January March May July October 2015 Annual Report Q3 Trading Update Deutsche Bank Annual General Interim Results published Investor Dinner Meeting April June September November February Announced Q1 Trading Update Toronto Roadshow Edinburgh Stifel sales team Preliminary Results Roadshow presentation Stifel conference New York London, New York & San Francisco Geneva & Zurich Roadshows Roadshow BAML Support Services Conference Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 60 Corporate Governance Report Shareholder communications Annual General Meeting The Board places great importance on communications with shareholders, The Board welcomes the opportunity to enter into dialogue with both also recognising the contribution made by other providers of capital, private and institutional shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and is open to hearing the views of such providers in so far as they are AGM and view it as an opportunity to engage with all our shareholders relevant to the Companys overall approach to governance.
The Board on the performance of the business they own.
is briefed on the Companys investor relations programme through a The 2017 AGM will be held at 12 noon on 10 May 2017 in the Ascot regular report from the Head of Investor Relations as well as by periodic Suite at the Hilton London Gatwick Airport, South Terminal Gatwick updates from the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
A separate Notice of Meeting, containing The Company strives to ensure that investors and other interested an explanation of the items of special business, has been sent to parties have a transparent and effective dialogue with the Company.
shareholders and is available on the Companys website.
In accordance As such, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer with the Code, the Directors other than Chris Geoghegan, who has make themselves available to shareholders at all appropriate times.
been appointed during 2016 and so, in accordance with the Code, In addition, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and will be subject to election by shareholders at the AGM, being the first Committee Chairmen are available to attend meetings with investors, such meeting since his appointment are subject to annual re-election as required, and will typically do so on a number of occasions annually.
by shareholders and will, therefore, be stepping down and seeking The Senior Independent Director met with the Investment Association re-election at the AGM.
The Board recommends to shareholders the as part of their follow up consultation on the recommendations of the election of Chris Geoghegan and re-election of the other Directors Executive Remuneration Working Group in April 2016.
After a detailed on the basis that they are all effective Directors of the Company and shareholder consultation exercise in the fourth quarter of 2015, the demonstrate the appropriate level of commitment to the role.
As Alan Senior Independent Director did not attend any meetings with individual Giles plans to retire from the Board at the 2017 AGM he will not be put investors during the year as there were no requests for him to do so.
Itis felt, however, that he has previously attended sufficient meetings to Biographical information in respect of the Directors as well as information have developed a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns as to why the Board believes the Directors should be re-elected can be of our major shareholders.
It is intended that the new Remuneration found in the Notice of Meeting.
Committee Chairman and the new Senior Independent Director, to succeed Alan Giles, will make themselves available for meetings with The Company encourages all shareholders to attend the AGM and investors once appointed as part of a planned induction to the roles.
to participate in discussion of the matters at the meeting.
The Chief Executive will present to shareholders on the Companys strategy and The Company maintains regular dialogue with institutional shareholders performance and all Directors will be available to answer questions both through one-to-one and group meetings, formal investor and analyst formally at the meeting and informally afterwards over lunch.
Voting at conference calls as well as ad-hoc communications, where appropriate, the AGM will be conducted by a poll and the results announced to the and through exchanges with shareholder representative organisations.
market and displayed on the Companys website as soon as possible Investor roadshows are conducted after full-year and interim results, following the meeting.
involving extensive investor meetings on each occasion, as well as opportunities for private client investor presentations across the UK.
TheChief Financial Officer, supported by the Group Financial Controller& Treasurer, also regularly meets with and hears the  of the debt capital markets.
Formal presentations are also held after full-year and interim results, to which investors and selland buy-side analysts are invited.
These presentations are webcast and any investor is able to hear the John McAdam presentation and related questions and answers via the Companys Chairman website.
Slide presentations of results are hosted as are recordings 22 February 2017 ofmeetings.
Find out more at rentokil-initial.
com investors Read the 2017 Notice of Annual General Meeting at rentokil-initial.
com investors shareholder-centre Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
