Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 61 Audit Committee Report Although we were disappointed at the record-keeping failure that led to a health and safety prosecution in our NewZealand Hygiene business, the overall control environment continues to mature and strengthen and it was pleasing to see reduced levels of breakdowns in internal controls than was the case in 2015 in Mexico, Netherlands and Australia.
For further details, see the Groups approach to risk management and control on pages 65 and 66.
There were changes to the membership of the Committee during the year as Peter Bamford stepped down in May 2016.
I would like to thank him for his contribution as a member over the last nine years.
I would also like to welcome Chris Geoghegan who joined the Committee in June 2016.
I am pleased to report that I believe that the Audit Committee continues to have the necessary balance of skills, experience, professional qualifi cations and knowledge as detailed on page 62.
As I mentioned in last years report, a planned external review of the eff ectiveness of the internal audit function was carried out in the second half of 2015 by Grant Thornton LLP.
The majority of the fi findings were Dear Shareholder positive and inthe fi first half of 2016 the Committee continued to examine the outcomes of this review and the subsequent actions taken.
As in previous years, the Audit Committee Due to the reforms of the audit market created by the EU Audit Directive focused on fi financial reporting and fi financial and EU Audit Regulation, the Committee undertook a detailed review of the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the control and worked closely with the external auditors in 2016.
This was subsequently updated to ensure full Groups Internal Audit function in relation compliance by 1 January 2017 and is available to view on the Companys website.
to risk management and compliance.
As in previous years, the Committee reviewed the methodology In 2016 the Committee also devoted specifi c attention to the M&A followed by the Company to identify the principal risks facing the growth strategy and the increase in the scale and complexity of the business and the adequacy of the mitigating actions.
During the year, business in North America in particular.
It was reassuring to see good the Committee also focused on cyber risk as an area of growing progress in the integration of the Steritech acquisition which, as we had importance, both as a general business matter but also in view of the indicated in our 2015 report, had a signifi cant impact on the scale of the Companys investment in technology and innovation in its services and Companys Pest Control business in the region.
This was important given service delivery, as can be seen on page 5.
The Board and Committee the need to integrate the 17 acquisitions in the North America region eff ectiveness reviews undertaken in 2015 identifi ed consideration of which were completed in 2016.
The US is now suffi ciently material to key or new risks such as cyber risk as an action for 2016.
As a result, the Group that we enhanced the scope of the external audit from 2016 the Audit Committee received an in-depth review by the Global Head onwards.
Additional resource and capability has also been added to of IT Security of the current cyber risks faced by the Company and the North America fi finance team to ensure that, despite the increasingly of progress in putting in place actions to minimise the risks, and will complex fi finance systems and trading environment, our business there continue to receive periodic updates on progress against these actions will continue to perform well, and report and forecast eff ectively.
and further initiatives in this area.
The Committee received in-depth reviews of three of the fi five regions from the Regional Finance Directors, who presented on the risk and control environment in their region, with particular focus on fi financial reporting controls and the quality of the fi finance organisation, specifi c During the year, control issues and key priorities for the fi finance function.
This practice continues to provide a high level of insight for the Committee into the theCommittee also businesses in these regions and to allow the opportunity to challenge senior management on processes and any perceived risks.
We will continue to obtain these helpful reviews in 2017. focused on cyber risk as an area of growing importance.
Julie Southern Chairman of the Audit Committee Julie Southern 22 February 2017 Chairman of the Audit Committee Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 62 Audit Committee Report During the year Peter Bamford retired and Chris Geoghegan was Role of the Audit Committee appointed as a member of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The Audit Julie Southern, Chairman of the Audit Committee, is a Chartered Committees focus is to review and challenge in these areas both with Accountant and is considered to have relevant and recent financial management and with internal and external auditors.
Peter Bamford, Alan Giles and Chris Geoghegan have extensive commercial and operational experience in overseeing the The Audit Committee: financial affairs of substantial business undertakings and the Audit Monitors the integrity of the annual and interim results, including a Committee as a whole is considered to havecompetence relevant to the review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained sector in which the Company operates.
Full biographical details of the therein.
The Directors statement of responsibilities for preparing the members of the Audit Committee are contained on pages 48 and 49.
Annual Report and Financial Statements can be found in the Directors AllAudit Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee didnot find itnecessary to seek external advice during Keeps the Companys internal financial controls and internal control the year, other than through itsusual dialogue with the external auditor.
and risk management systems under review.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Company Chairman, Reports to the Board on its activities and provides the Board with the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor, an independent assessment of the Groups accounting affairs and the Director of Risk & Internal Audit and the Company Secretary.
financial position to enable it to meet the UK Corporate Governance Other company executives attend meetings periodically such as the Code the Code requirement to present a fair, balanced and Group Financial Controller & Treasurer, the Group Tax Director and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Committee meets at least once Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal per year separately with the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, and the audit function.
Director ofRisk & Internal Audit without executive management present.
Establishes and oversees the Companys relationship with the TheChairman of the Committee reports to the Board at the next Board external auditor, including setting their fees, monitoring their meeting on the activity of the Committee and any matters of particular independence and effectiveness and ensuring that the Companys relevance to the Board in the conduct of its work.
policy relating to their engagement on non-audit matters is appropriate and observed.
Activities of the Audit Committee in 2016 Reviews correspondence from regulators in relation to the Companys In 2016, the Audit Committee considered the following key areas: financial reporting and, if appropriate, reviews managements response.
Internal controls and risk Monitors matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing The effectiveness of the internal control and risk management arrangements.
framework including an assessment by the external auditor of the Terms of reference Companys risk management framework relative to peer group The Committees terms of reference were reviewed by the Committee companies to ensure that best practices are applied where relevant.
in 2016 and the Board approved a number of minor amendments to The statement to shareholders on the control environment.
the text to ensure that the terms of reference are fully aligned to current The outcome of internal audit investigations and status of resolution best practice.
They take full account of the FRC Guidance on Audit ofissues raised.
Committees and have been updated to reflect changes brought in under Group risks and actions to enhance their measurement, monitoring the EU Audit Regulation and EU Audit Directive, and are available on the and mitigation actions.
This included a specific review of cyber security.
Review and enhancement of relevant policies and procedures Composition and attendance of the Audit Committee including the Group authority schedule, tax and treasury policies.
The Committee met four times during the year and the members of the Group reporting processes and the central control environment, Committee and their attendance during 2016 are detailed below.
including the review of Group Risk Committee minutes.
The conclusions and themes emerging from the internal audit investigations conducted during the year and approval of the plans for2017 in parallel with the Boards strategic review and operating plan for the year.
Audit Committee meeting attendance 2016 External audit The terms and scope of the audit engagement for the annual and interim financial statements.
The effectiveness of the external audit process.
A review of the annual financial statements, consideration of principal areas of accounting judgement or materiality, further details of which 1 Julie Southern Chairman Peter Bamford are provided below, including discussions with the auditor without Attendance 100% Attendance 100% executives present.
Attended: 4 Attended: 1 A review of the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit Potential: 4 Potential: 1 services by the auditor and compliance with the policy.
The audit strategy for the 2016 audit including the key areas of focus, materiality levels, scope and coverage including the decision to enhance the US audit scope.
An analysis setting out the basis on which KPMG LLP continued to 2 Chris Geoghegan Alan Giles meet the appropriate professional standards of independence as Attendance 100% Attendance 100% auditor to the Company.
Peter Bamford resigned from the Board on 11 May 2016.
Read the Audit Committee terms of reference at 2.
Chris Geoghegan joined the Committee on 28 June 2016. rentokil-initial.
com investors governance Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 63 Audit Committee Report Accounting and financial reporting Significant accounting judgements The annual and interim financial statements, together with the After discussion with both management and the auditor, the Committee significant financial reporting judgements relating to each statement.
has determined the key issues of accounting judgement affecting the financial statements and therefore providing the potential for material Reviews of material litigation and disputes.
misstatement in the 2016 Annual Report.
The significant areas of Reviews with Regional Finance Directors including the control focus considered and actions taken are set out below.
These issues environment in their businesses.
have been discussed and reviewed by the Committee during the A review of and recommendation to the Board in relation to the going year, notably at the review of the interim results and at the review and concern analysis and the viability statement.
agreement of the audit plan for 2017.
Significant matter Action taken Deferred tax assets The Group holds substantial deferred tax assets recognised on Where judgements are material to the Group the auditor uses its recognised on unused unused tax losses.
The amount recognised is highly judgemental own specialists to assist in the review of the approaches taken tax losses and is based on future profitability which is inherently uncertain, and and assumptions made by management and ensure these result involves judgement in determining the forecast period.
The Committee reviews the position at the half-year and year-end balance sheet dates supported by papers from the Director of Tax and is satisfied that the assumptions supporting the valuations are appropriate and that the assets are reasonably stated in the financial statements.
Tax provisions The Group holds a number of provisions for tax contingencies The Group employs local tax experts to support judgements in relation to various potential claims from tax authorities, which where there is significant uncertainty and the amounts involved require significant judgements and estimates in relation to tax risks.
In respect of transfer pricing across tax jurisdictions The complexity is increased as a result of the large number of tax the Group has benchmarked its approach using international jurisdictions in which the Group operates, and the time taken for tax tax experts to ensure the risk of breaching local tax authority matters to be agreed with the relevant authorities.
As noted above, the Committee reviews the position at the half-year and year-end balance sheet dates supported by papers from the Group Tax Director and is satisfied that the assumptions supporting the valuations are appropriate and that the liabilities are reasonably stated in the financial statements.
Valuation of intangible The Group carries material balances for intangible fixed assets The Groups intangible assets are grouped into cash-generating assets arising on acquisitions, and due to the acquisition programme units CGUs for the purpose of assessing the recoverable amount makes material additions to these balances each year.
Annual usually a country business unit.
Impairment tests are carried impairment tests are based on value-in-use calculations which out using a centrally provided model.
Cash flows are based on require significant judgements in relation to the inputs used, recent strategic plans as amended for any significant changes including forecast growth rates and discount rates.
Discount rates used for cash flows must be the is required to perform annual tests for impairment of goodwill applicable rate from the internally published Group discount rates, balances over 1m as well as other acquired intangible assets when which are adjusted for local country risk.
there are indicators of impairment.
The auditor reviews the centrally provided model and a sample of individual CGUs impairment testing, as well as evaluating theprocedures undertaken to identify indicators of impairment inthe year.
Although the total values of intangible assets are significant, management has been able to demonstrate to the Committee that there is material headroom in the major balances based on the assumptions made.
Acquisition accounting The Group makes a large number of material acquisitions each At each balance sheet date, management provides the Audit year, many of which require the valuation of acquired intangible Committee with a summary of M&A activity in the period, including assets such as brands, customer lists and goodwill.
The calculations updates to provisional accounting as well as details of new for valuing these assets on acquisition are subject to significant acquisitions.
The Committee reviews the accounting treatment of judgement and estimation about the future performance of the certain aspects of significant acquisitions, including determination acquired business, such as forecast termination rates, discount of the consideration paid, the identification and valuation of rates and growth rates.
The Group utilises the allowances for acquired intangible assets and a review of provisional opening provisional accounting within the standards where appropriate, balance sheets.
andthere is judgement required during this period as to whether the adjustments relate to the preor post-acquisition period.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 64 Audit Committee Report Internal audit External audit The Group has an internal audit team led by the Director of Risk Audit services & Internal Audit.
Where justified by the need for local language or The auditor is appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on technical expertise in particular markets, the team draws additional the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the resources from external practices although this was not required in 2016.
KPMG LLP has acted as the auditor to the Group throughout The Committee also has the benefit of the output from the financial the year.
The Committee is responsible for oversight of the auditor, controls testing carried out by the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
The agreeing the audit strategy and related work plan as well as approving Director of Risk & Internal Audit reports to the Chief Financial Officer their fees.
and has direct lines of communication with the Chairman of the Audit The auditor attends all meetings of the Audit Committee and meets Committee, the Chief Executive and the Company Chairman, as well withthe Committee without executive management present.
The main asto all operational and functional leaders in the business.
engagement with the Committee in 2016 has been over the audit and During the year, internal audit continued to review a broad range of publication of annual and periodic financial statements, and advising business processes in depth at a relatively limited number of business onthe reporting requirements relating to significant acquisitions and locations.
The audit plan approved by the Committee in December disposals.
The Committee considers that it has an effective working 2015 has been completed in full.
The common themes, and related relationship with the external audit team.
As reported below, the recommendations, arising from the 26 audits and investigations Committee has formally reviewed the effectiveness of the auditor completed or in progress considered by the Committee covered: andissatisfied with their performance.
key financial controls: Audit-related and non-audit services entertainment and expenses: To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditor, the authority schedules: Company has a policy on the engagement of the auditors services onaudit-related and non-audit services.
The Committee accepts that compliance with Group insurance requirements: certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the auditor.
IT general controls and entity level controls: Thepolicy sets out the nature of services that are permitted and those pricing strategy: that are specifically prohibited.
In general, permitted services would be sales and customer account management: limited to matters that are closely related to the annual audit process or customer contract management: where a detailed knowledge of the Group is advantageous.
The auditor stock and warehousing: is permitted to be engaged on transaction services but not to undertake operational effectiveness: any work which would itself be subject to audit.
The Committee regularly reviews the amount and nature of non-audit work performed by the business continuity management: and auditor to ensure that the auditors independence is not compromised compliance with the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption policy, and and in 2016 updated the Companys policy to ensure full compliance policies for reporting serious incidents.
with the EU Audit Directive and EU Audit Regulation.
Any engagement Internal audit continued to implement the recommendations of the 2015 fee on permitted services in excess of 10,000 requires the approval Grant Thornton report on specific IT processes, with reviews during ofthe Chairman of the Audit Committee and any engagement fee in 2016 of information governance, information security, IT supplier and excess of 250,000 requires the approval of the Committee.
A copy contract management, global data centres including data backup ofthe policy on engagement of the auditors service is available at and restore processes, and software development for enterprise rentokil-initial.
There was no significant non-audit service applications.
In each area of focus, recommendations for implementation of additional Fees for audit-related services incurred during the year amounted to controls or improvements to the existing controls were agreed with 0.2m 2015: 0.1m and fees for non-audit services incurred during management and realistic time frames set for actions to be completed.
the year amounted to 0.7m 2015: 0.6m, representing 37% of the Progress on the completion of agreed recommendations is reviewed by total audit fees.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related the Committee and it notes that the majority of audit recommendations services and non-audit services can be found in Note A8 to the Financial are completed in the agreed time frame.
None of the failures identified in the control environment by internal Disclosure of information to the auditor audit or any of the recommendations resulting from individual audits The Committee monitors the process leading up to the preparation represented a systemic underlying issue.
The overall work of the internal of the financial statements, including the arrangements the Company audit function is supportive of the Committees and the Boards view has in place for disclosing all relevant audit information to the auditor.
that the financial and operational controls environment, set out in the A formal confirmation on disclosure of information to the auditor is Risks and Uncertainties section on page 34, is working adequately.
The provided in the Directors Report on page 153.
Boards statement on the effectiveness of risk management and internal control can be found on page 58.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 65 Audit Committee Report Effectiveness Groups approach to risk management and internal control Under the Code, the Committee is required to review and monitor The Groups approach to managing risk and ensuring that an effective the auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of internal control environment is maintained is described below.
The the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional Boards statement on risk management and internal control is set out and regulatory requirements.
The 2015 audit was completed and all inthe Corporate Governance Report on page 58. milestones reached, and there were no significant unexpected events The identification and management of risk is fully integrated into the relating to the publication of the year-end results.
development of the Groups strategy and the day-to-day operational The Committee conducted a review of the auditors effectiveness during execution of the strategy by the regions and business units.
Ensuring the preparation of Group and local statutory accounts for the 2015 that risks are identified and managed effectively is a part of every calendar year, drawing input from the Chief Financial Officer, the Director managers and supervisors job through leadership of the teams for of Risk & Internal Audit and other members of the senior finance which they are responsible.
management team as well as from the majority of the Finance Directors The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management of the Groups subsidiaries.
The process made use of a formal evaluation approach, which includes: using a questionnaire which was completed by 35 business units as well as by the central accounts, tax and treasury functions.
The questionnaire review and approval of the Groups overall strategy, including overall covered: risk appetite.
This includes reviewing the risks that may prevent the Group from achieving its objectives and ensuring that these risks are resources and expertise of the external audit team: mitigated or managed to an acceptable level: effectiveness of the audit process: and regular reviews of business performance including updates of the effectiveness of the financial controls testing process.
risks that the business is facing, and challenging management to The Committee considered the comprehensive findings of the review, obtain assurance that these risks are being effectively managed: none of which were material in the overall context of the Group audit review of managements approach to identifying and managing but was helpful in relation to improvements in the Companys processes risk including approval of the Group principal risks schedule and and those of the auditor.
Taking all responses into account, the scoring recommending enhancements: mechanism demonstrated that the audit performance was effective and evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls, including financial, at a similar level to the previous year.
operational and compliance controls: evaluation of the effectiveness of internal and external audit: and Auditor independence and objectivity In concluding that KPMG LLP should be proposed for reappointment as delegation of authority to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial auditor at the Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2017, the Board and Officer to make commitments on behalf of the Company.
the Audit Committee took into account the need to ensure that auditor Some of the above responsibilities are delegated to the Audit independence was safeguarded.
The Audit Committee also took into Committee as previously described.
account the review undertaken of the effectiveness of the audit process as well as input from executive management.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Risk & Internal Audit on financial controls and The Company considers that there are sufficient controls and processes process improvement programmes.
These include: in place to ensure that the required level of independence of the auditor is maintained.
The Board does not consider that there is any material risk an annual report on the overall status of the control environment in of the Companys auditor withdrawing from the market.
the Group including the results of testing and reports on identified areas of weakness in controls: Auditor re-tendering action plans on control environment improvements and updates Following a tender process in 2009, KPMG LLP replaced ontheir implementation:  LLP as the Groups auditor.
In accordance updates on control breakdowns and planned actions to prevent with the UK Competition and Market Authority Order the Order, are-ocurrence: and the Company will be required to appoint an auditor pursuant to a periodic reports from regional and Group finance executives, competitive tender process by 2019.
In order to allow sufficient time andinternal audit.
for the process to be undertaken thoroughly and fairly and to allow an adequate transition between external auditors if required, the Audit The number of control breakdowns across the Group remains low, Committee would expect that it will complete the competitive tender with those which do occur having no or limited impact on Group process in 2017 with the audit of the 2018 accounts to be undertaken performance.
In 2016 and early 2017 the Audit Committee reviewed: bythe newly-appointed auditor.
A control breakdown in the New Zealand business relating to the In addition, KPMG LLP are required to rotate the audit partner responsible maintenance of immunisation records for technicians.
Due to poor for the Group audit every five years.
The current lead audit partner, record-keeping the business was unable to confirm whether or not PaulSawdon, has served since 2013 and will, therefore, rotate after the atechnician had been immunised against Hepatitis B in 2008, and 2017 year end.
assuch was in breach of the local WorkSafe regulations.
The business was fined and has since put in enhanced processes to prevent a The Committee continues to review the auditor appointment and re-ocurrence.
the need to tender the audit, ensuring compliance with the Order.
In part due to the complex finance systems and trading environment Accordingly the Company confirms its compliance with the provisions in 2016, the North America finance team was unable at times to ofthe Order for the financial period ending 31 December 2016. forecast accurately the underlying performance of the business.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP be There were no material errors in the reporting of performance and the reappointed for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 under the business performed well in the year despite the forecasting errors.
current external audit contract and the Directors will be proposing the Having identified the problem, additional resource and capability has reappointment of KPMG LLP and the setting of its fees at the Companys been added to the North America finance team to mitigate the risk in 2017 AGM.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 66 Audit Committee Report During 2016 the Audit Committee also reviewed progress in remedying Governance and compliance control breakdowns fi first reported in 2015: The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing the Companys Failure in the fi financial control environment in Mexico the former procedures for handling compliance with the Companys Code of Finance Director left the business and a full review of fi financial Conduct, including its anti-corruption policy and confi dential reporting statements and fi financial controls has been carried out by the new whistleblower arrangements.
The Code of Conduct, a fundamental Finance Director.
The review of fi financial statements resulted in a onecommitment to comply with all applicable legal requirements and withhigh ethical standards, can be found on the Companys website.
off charge to the Income Statement in 2016, and a follow-up review During the year, the Committee reviewed assurance of the compliance by Internal Audit in 2016 found that the fi financial control weaknesses procedures in place and the degree to which mandatory training identifi ed in 2015 had been substantially rectifi ed.
hasbeen undertaken by senior management relating to the Code of A fraud by the former Sydney branch manager in Australia including Conduct, which was revised and reissued in 2016.
The Committee is collusion with colleagues and a customer the branch manager was also informed of feedback from senior management who are required prosecuted at the Companys instigation and convicted.
Additional toprovide an annual Letter of Assurance confi rming compliance with controls to prevent a re-ocurrence have been put in place across all keyGroup policies, including the Code of Conduct, and the dissemination branches in Australia, and lessons learned were shared more broadly of these policies to their respective country and functional teams.
Fraud at our Ureco subsidiary in the Netherlands involving production There are policies and procedures in place for the reporting by of false credit notes the matter was investigated and staff dismissed.
colleagues of suspected wrongdoing, for these suspicions to be formally The Ureco subsidiary has subsequently been sold.
Work on the investigated, and for the results of the investigation to be reported to investigation has yet to conclude.
Further information on the Speak Up programme can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on the Companys There is a Group Risk Committee composed of key functional and website.
During the year, the Committee received a report on control operational senior managers which considers the risk framework and incidents arising via the Speak Up programme as well as from other key risks.
Further details of its composition, scope and responsibilities sources.
The Committee also periodically reviews processes which the are set out on page 58.
Company has in place to ensure that in all territories there is an eff ective Specifi c programmes are in place to support implementation of the communication process through which colleagues are kept informed Code of Conduct and underlying policies, national laws and regulations.
In some cases dedicated specialists ensure that standards are set Audit Committee eff ectiveness and complied with, for example in health and safety, IT security, In November 2016, the Committee conducted a review of its pensions and tax.
More broadly, e-learning training, including on the eff ectiveness using the services of Lintstock, an independent external U learning management platform, is used to ensure that expected corporate governance consultancy.
The review concluded that the standards of behaviour are widely disseminated and adopted across Committee was performing eff ectively and had received suffi cient, the Group, for example to ensure understanding of the Code of reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfi l Conduct and compliance with competition law and anti-corruption itsresponsibilities.
The use of U has proved to be highly eff ective in accelerating delivery and monitoring of training on the revised Code of Conduct in 2016.
Full details can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on the Companys website.
Independent re-assurance of the eff ectiveness of risk management and internal controls across the Group is provided to the Chief Executive and Julie Southern the Board by Group Internal Audit.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 22 February 2017 Read our Corporate Responsibility Report at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery Read our Code of Conduct at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery code-of-conduct Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
