50 Executive Leadership Team Paul Cochrane, Jrgen Hfling, John Myers, Phill Wood, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Asia Europe North America UK & Rest of World Appointed: March 2016 Appointed: October 2014 Appointed: October 2013 Appointed: October 2013 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Paul joined Rentokil Initial in Jrgen joined Rentokil Initial John joined Rentokil Initial in 2008 Phill joined Rentokil Initial in 1990 as Branch Manager of in 2014 as Managing Director as President and Chief Executive 2006as Managing Director the Initial Hygiene business in for Europe.
He has significant of the Pest Control division in Europe PestControl, to then be New Zealand.
He later became experience in senior positions North America.
Previously John appointed as Managing Director Managing Director of Initial in the logistics sector and in served as Vice President VP of of the Pest Control division in UK Hygiene New Zealand & Fiji, sales and marketing, principally Business Development, Group and Ireland in 2009.
He has been Managing Director of Ambius in from 14 years at Deutsche Post VP, VP of Business Strategy and Managing Director of UK & Rest of the UK, Managing Director of Initial and DHL International.
He also as Senior VP of Sales at Cintas World since October 2013.
Prior Hygiene Pacific Australia, New has international management Corporation.
Prior to that, he was tojoining Rentokil Initial Phill held Zealand and Fiji and then Senior consultancy experience gained President and Chief Executive a number of top management Vice President of Rentokil Initial as the Founding Partner of at Bio Quest LLC.
John has a positions at Lex Services RAC plc Asia before becoming Regional Theron Management Advisors, diverse business background, where he served for 15 years.
Paul an international management with extensive sales, marketing Phillhas extensive commercial has a diploma in Business from consultancy.
He is a German and business strategy experience.
and business development the University of Auckland and national and fluent in English, He is a graduate of the University experience.
Heisa Chartered aTrade Certificate of Automotive French and German.
Jrgen of Vermont where he earned a Management Accountant and Engineering from Manukau has an Integration & Marketing Bachelors degree in Business holds a first classBachelors Technical Institute in New Zealand.
degree from the Wharton School, Administration.
Additionally, he degree Hons inManagement University of Pennsylvania.
earned an MBA from Mercer Science from Loughborough University in Atlanta.
Vanessa Evans, Alain Moffroid, Stewart Power, Group Human Resources Managing Director, Chief Marketing Officer Director Pacific Appointed: March 2014 Appointed: January 2016 Appointed: March 2016 Skills and experience Stewart joined Rentokil Initial in Skills and experience Skills and experience 2006 as Director of Marketing and Vanessa joined Rentokil Initial Alain joined Rentokil Initial in Strategy for the Rentokil division in January 2016 as Group HR 2013 as Managing Director of and became Group Marketing Director.
Vanessa has had a the Pest Control and Hygiene Director in 2010.
Prior to this successful career with some division in the Pacific.
He joined he held roles as Marketing and of the worlds best known from Unilever where he held the Strategy Director at RAC Business consumer brands.
She brings role of Vice President Customer Solutions, Director of Business valuable business experience Development, Unilever Asia Solutions at Capita Group and and expertise in human resources and Africa, following a number was a management consultant management.
She joined from of senior positions with Unilever with the Boston Consulting Group.
RSA Group plc where she was Australasia.
He has significant He started his career at BOC Group HR, Communications and experience in marketing, sales Group plc spending seven years Customer Director.
Prior to that and business development Andy Ransom, Jeremy in strategy, marketing and sales Vanessa was Global HR Director acquired during 23 years with Townsend and Daragh Fagan roles.
He has broad experience in at Lego and Head of UK HR Unilever in Europe, Asia and are also members of the marketing and strategy, and holds at GAP.
She is a Fellow of the Pacific.
He is a dual national Executive Leadership Team.
an MBA from London Business Chartered Institute of Personnel Belgian Australian and is fluent Their biographical information School and a Bachelors degree and Development and holds in English, French and Dutch.
can be found on pages 48 in Physics from Imperial College, a Bachelors degree Hons in He holds an MSc Business from and 49.
TheChief Executive University of London.
He is a Geography from Bulmershe the Solvay Business School, chairs the Executive member of the Chartered Institute College, University of Reading.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
