Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 67 Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder The Nomination Committees key objective is to make sure that the members of the Board have the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience to govern the Company in an ethical and transparent manner and to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Committee has overall responsibility for succession planning and forleading the process for new appointments to the Board and senior management.
In addition, the Committee is responsible for assessing the composition, diversity, experience, knowledge, skills and independence of the Board.
It recommends the appointment of new members to the Board as well as providing recommendations tothe Board in respect of the reappointment of Directors each year.
The During 2016 we were Nomination Committee also has oversight of the Companys policy andprocedures with regard to managing conflicts of interest.
once again able to During 2016, the Nomination Committee met four times and recommended the appointment of Chris Geoghegan to the Board as appoint an individual a Non-Executive Director following the resignation of Peter Bamford in May.
I am satisfied that the process undertaken worked efficiently and that we were once again able to appoint an individual who could who could contribute contribute and work effectively with the existing Board members.
Weare undertaking a similar process to find a successor to Alan Giles following and work effectively his planned retirement at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
As part of this process, the Committee has reviewed the current composition of the Board and considered any areas of professional or sector experience with the existing which may be currently underrepresented, suchas business-to-business B2B services experience or technology, or which could be considered Board members.
advantageous as the business continues to grow, such as specific international experience in key markets like North America.
John McAdam There has been a considerable amount of corporate governance Chairman of the Nomination Committee guidance published during 2016 which the Board is keeping abreast of and will report against in the future as appropriate.
However, two publications of particular interest to the Nomination Committee were the Hampton-Alexander Review on gender balance in FTSE leadership and the Parker Review on the ethnic diversity of UK boards.
The Committee considered both during the year and more information on this can be found below.
One of the key recommendations of the HamptonAlexander Review is for companies to disclose the number of women on the Executive Leadership Team and in the direct reports to the Executive Leadership Team and we have complied with this on page 69.
Yours faithfully John McAdam Chairman of the Nomination Committee 22 February 2017 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 68 Nomination Committee Report Role of the Nomination Committee Activities of the Nomination Committee in 2016 The Committee has delegated authority from the Board as set out Key items discussed by the Nomination Committee included: in its terms of reference.
The terms of reference of the Committee the appointment of Chris Geoghegan: were reviewed by the Committee during 2016 and are available at a review of Board succession planning, including key skills and rentokil-initial.
The primary purpose of the Committee is to ensure experience to prioritise in the search for new Directors, and formulation that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, of a forward multi-year succession plan: composition and balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the a review and selection of executive search consultants to assist with Board is undertaken, to recommend any changes to the composition the recruitment of new Directors: ofthe Board and its Committees and to instigate and manage a review of the Committees constitution: recruitment processes.
a review of the Committees effectiveness which was externally Material findings and recommendations are reported at the next facilitated by Lintstock, an independent corporate governance Boardmeeting and copies of the minutes of meetings of the Nomination consultancy: Committee are circulated to all Directors where appropriate.
a review of the performance of individual Directors, utilising the output from the Board evaluation process, and making recommendations to Membership and attendance the Board over the re-election of Directors attheAGM: and Since February 2016, the composition of the Nomination Committee was a review of the potential conflicts of interest authorised by the Board changed to include all Non-Executive Directors.
This was done in order and a review of the processes in place to ensure that potential to ensure that all Directors are able to provide input and help determine conflicts are properly considered.
the future composition of the Board.
The Committee met formally four times during the year.
The members of the Committee during 2016 and More detailed information is provided below, where appropriate.
their attendance at Committee meetings can be seen below.
Succession planning and talent development Both the Nomination Committee and the Board recognise that strategic, thoughtful and practical succession planning is critical to the long-term success of the Company.
The Committee looks to bring new energy, Nomination Committee challenge and oversight to the Board and to reflect the business meeting strategy and operational goals in appointments.
The Board is ultimately attendance 2016 responsible for succession planning for Executive and Non-Executive Directors and senior management, with the Committee having oversight and making recommendations as required.
Whilst Board and senior manager succession planning has been a regular feature of both the Nomination Committee and the Board for the last few years, the Board recognises that the critical importance of having the right leadership John McAdam Chairman and talent in place means that additional time should be allocated to Attendance 100% executive succession and talent development.
This was incorporated Attended: 4 into the Board agenda in 2016.
Potential: 4 During 2016, the Board received a presentation from the Group HR Director on talent strategy.
This reviewed the current succession pipeline to Executive Leadership Team and Senior Leadership Forum roles as well as wider talent development priorities.
Descriptions of 1 2 Peter Bamford Richard Burrows Chris Geoghegan these groups can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on Attendance 100% Attendance 100% Attendance 50% page 58.
The Board approved a new talent strategy and approach Attended: 2 Attended: 4 Attended: 1 to ensure that talent activity is focused on the key priorities of Potential: 2 Potential: 4 Potential: 2 the organisation, namely fuelling succession into key operational and leadership roles in the short and medium term and retaining critical talent and specialists.
Talent pools were established to help identify successors for roles in the Executive Leadership Team and Senior Leadership Forum, to improve the succession pipeline for Alan Giles Angela SeymourJulie Southern senior operational management, and to identify and accelerate the Attendance 100% Attendance 100% Jackson development of fast-track talent.
It is intended that identified members Attended: 4 Attended: 4 Attendance 100% ofthe talent pools will be offered development that focuses on individual Potential: 4 Potential: 4 Attended: 4 needs and stretches people in the areas required for their next role Potential: 4 within the Company.
Further details of the Rentokil Initial Diversity and Inclusion Programme offered to colleagues can be found in the 1.
Peter Bamford resigned from the Board on 11 May 2016.
Corporate Responsibility Report on the Companys website.
Chris Geoghegan joined the Committee on 28 June 2016. will be reviewed annually ensuring new participants can be identified and existing participants evaluated, resulting in a comprehensive talent review that is presented to the Board annually, mapping successional candidates and opportunities across all senior roles within the business.
As detailed on page 53, Chris Geoghegan was unable to attend a Nomination Committee meeting held shortly after his appointment due to a conflict with a pre-existing commitment.
The Committee Chairman seeks the views of any director unable to attend a meeting and provides a briefing on outcomes.
All Committee members are provided with material for all meetings, whether or not they are able to attend.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 69 Nomination Committee Report Appointment process to the Board Diversity The Nomination Committee has responsibility for managing the The Board remains of the firm view that in order to secure the best talent appointment process to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent for the Board, or within the business, it is essential to draw on the widest procedure for appointing directors.
In order for the Board to discharge possible talent pool, and our diversity policy requires selection from its duties and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise a diverse diverse, objective and purely merit-based shortlists.
Diversity enriches group of individuals whose skills and experience are gained in a debate and problem solving at Board level and enhances operational variety of backgrounds.
Successful candidates must demonstrate performance as well as governance processes.
25% of Board members independence of mind and integrity, and must enhance the overall are female and the Company aims to meet the recommendation made effectiveness of the Board.
Appointments are considered objectively, in the final Davies Review and in the Hampton-Alexander Review on regardless of gender, ethnicity or other personal characteristics, and are improving gender balance in FTSE leadership, which set a target of made on merit.
Pro-forma letters of appointment and Directors service 33% female board representation by 2020.
The Nomination Committee contracts are available for public inspection at rentokil-initial.
will also keep under consideration the recommendation made in the Hampton-Alexander Review that FTSE 350 companies should aim The process of appointing new directors to the Board is usually for a minimum of 33% womens representation across their Executive supported through the use of an external recruitment consultant.
The Committee and in the direct reports to the Executive Committee process typically commences with the selection of a suitable recruitment by 2020.
Currently Rentokil Initial has one woman on the Executive consultant, who will be briefed on the skill sets and candidate Leadership Team ELT and 18 in the direct reports to the Executive experience being sought.
The recruitment consultant then prepares 1 Leadership Team.
Further a candidate specification for approval by the Committee.
Thereafter details on the composition of Rentokil Initial colleagues are provided potential candidates are identified, interviews take place with members inthe Corporate Responsibility section on page 44. of the Committee, with other Non-Executive Directors and with Executive Directors, following which the Nomination Committee forms The Nomination Committee and Board are already addressing the a recommendation for consideration by the Board.
A similar process relative lack of diversity, both inherent and acquired, in the senior is undertaken when external candidates are under consideration for management of the Company, and to this end the Board received a Executive Leadership Team roles.
presentation from the Group HR Director on diversity and inclusion during the year providing an update on the current strategy.
Several In 2016, this process was undertaken in the search for a replacement initiatives are being undertaken to implement change.
For instance, director following the resignation of Peter Bamford at the AGM in May one element of the diversity and inclusion strategy is to improve female 2016.
Odgers Berndtson, an external executive search consultancy representation in operations and sales roles in order to build the number with no other connections with the Company, were engaged by of women undertaking frontline management roles and, therefore, the the Company to undertake the recruitment process.
Following a pipeline of women to middle and senior management roles.
In addition, formal, rigorous and transparent process, the Nomination Committee female key talent have the opportunity to undertake a coaching recommended to the Board that Chris Geoghegan be appointed as a programme to improve their skills and support those in transition.
Diversity and inclusion is now a theme in all Leadership Development Programmes and will also feature in the Talent Pool Programmes.
Executive Leadership Board Gender % Team Gender % As a company, we will continue to focus on encouraging diversity and business skills and experience throughout the Group, recognising that directors and leaders in our businesses with diverse skill sets, capabilities and experience gained from different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhance the effectiveness of the organisation.
Wealways endeavour to make sure that the very best person is recruited, promoted and retained in the business and that everyone is measured and rewarded based on merit alone.
The Nomination Committee will continue to work to ensure that diversity and inclusion remains a business priority and that improvements already made in this area continue.
Rentokil Initial has a Group-wide policy on diversity and recruitment, which applies up to and including Board level.
In 2017, the Nomination Male 75% Male 90% Committee will consider whether it is more appropriate to adopt a Female 25% Female 10% separate Board diversity policy rather than continue to operate under the Group-wide diversity policy.
The Nomination Committee and Board Executive Leadership will also consider the outcome of the consultation of the Parker Review 1 Team Direct Reports on ethnic diversity in UK boards.
Executive Leadership Team ELT Direct Reports includes those individuals reporting to members of the ELT who are defined as senior managers, with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Company, or a strategically significant part of the Company.
Non-managerial and administrative staff who report to the ELT have not been included.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 70 Nomination Committee Report Managing conflicts of interest Under its terms of reference the Nomination Committee has responsibility The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation where they have, to review the current schedule of authorisations with a view to considering or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or might possibly whether they remain appropriate or whether they should be revoked or conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Board is permitted, under otherwise limited.
In addition, this review, which is undertaken annually, powers from shareholders contained in the Articles of Association, to also considers the process for considering and, if appropriate, authorising authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
In 2016, the process for the disclosure of any perceived conflicts upon the appointment of a new Director The Company has a procedure in place to deal with the situation where was reviewed and updated.
All authorisations given were considered a Director has a conflict of interest and as part of the process the Board appropriate and none were revoked or otherwise limited.
considers each potential conflict situation on its merits.
Since the procedure was introduced a number of potential situational conflicts Nomination Committee effectiveness have been authorised after review by the Chairman, with support from The Nomination Committee has conducted a performance evaluation the Company Secretary.
The Board maintains a register of authorisations of each Non-Executive Director seeking re-election and concluded granted and the scope of any approvals given, which is circulated to that their performance, both individually and in aggregate, continues Board members prior to each meeting.
to be effective and that each demonstrates commitment to the role.
Inaddition, the Committee conducted a review of how it operates, Conflicts are divided into transactional conflicts arising from a specific whichconcluded that the Committee had operated effectively in 2016. matter and situational conflicts arising from appointments on other The Committee noted that in 2017 Board and executive succession boards or through some other ongoing relationship.
All of the approvals would continue to be a high priority on its agenda, as the Boards given have been situational, none of which is subject to any specific composition changes and the scale and complexity of the Companys limitation or condition.
These potential conflicts are not material either business continues to develop.
tothe Company or, the Directors believe, to the other companies that are the subject of the potential conflict.
The Company has not encountered any transactional conflicts involving Directors that would require a Director to be excluded from any part of the Boards activities.
John McAdam Chairman of the Nomination Committee 22 February 2017 Read the Nomination Committee terms of reference at rentokil-initial.
com investors governance Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
