Governance | Corporate governance report Introduction Statement of compliance The following sections explain how the Company applies The Code sets out the principles and provisions relating to the main provisions set out in the 2014 UK Corporate good governance of UK listed companies and can be found Governance Code, the Code issued by the Financial on the FRCs website at https: frc.
Reporting Council FRC, as required by the Listing Rules We are pleased to confirm that, for the year under review, the of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and meets the Company has complied fully with the principles and provisions relevant information provisions of the Disclosure and of the Code.
Transparency Rules of the FCA.
The Boards role The statement of corporate governance covers: The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the the structure and role of the Board and its committees: overall direction and control of the Group and has the powers relations with the Companys shareholders and the Annual and duties set out in the Companies Act and the Companys General Meeting AGM : and Articles of Association.
The Board delegates certain matters the reports of the Audit Committee and Nomination to the Board committees and delegates the day to day Committee including Board effectiveness and evaluation.
operational aspects of the business to the executive directors.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out During the year, the Board has adopted an updated schedule of separately in the Directors Remuneration Report on matters requiring Board approval.
These include approval of: pages 47 to 48.
Rightmoves business strategy: The Groups risk management and internal control the annual business plan: framework and the principal risks and uncertainties are changes to the Groups capital structure: described on pages 21 to 22.
The Directors Report on pages the capital management and dividend policies: 43 to 45 also contains information required to be included in the annual and half year results and shareholder this statement of corporate governance.
communications: major acquisitions and disposals: appointment and removal of officers of the Company: and the system of internal control and risk management.
The key responsibilities and actions carried out by the Board during the year are set out below: Responsibility Specific actions and information received during the year Strategy and The June Board meeting Approved the Groups Presentation from a direction was devoted to budget for 2017 and its media analyst on the Rightmoves strategy three-year business plan online classifieds and included a discussion to 2019 marketplace and global of the potential influences, peer benchmarking threats and opportunities to Rightmoves business model arising from economic, regulatory and other market changes.
Priority strategic initiatives are featured for monitoring, analysis and discussion at every Board meeting throughout the year Performance Regular market updates Regular updates on Presentations from senior Housing market updates monitoring and reports about business performance management providing competitive landscape relative to analyst an update on Agency and including new business consensus forecasts New Homes business models and innovation and business plan performance and progress against the Rightmove customer value equation 30 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibility Specific actions and information received during the year Shareholder Investor feedback Received monthly Presentation from UBS, Investor Consultation engagement received via the executive reports on shareholder Rightmoves corporate eliciting feedback on the directors throughout the composition and analysis broker explaining the key proposed Remuneration year, particularly post of significant changes to drivers of the Groups Policy received via the results and investor the shareholder register valuation Remuneration roadshows Committee Governance Reviewed key risks Reviewed and approved Briefings and Consideration of Board and risk appearing on the risk the Groups regulatory presentations from senior Strategy Review externally register.
Discussed results announcements management covering a facilitated by Korn Ferry changes in significant and Annual Report wide range of topics including analysis of risks affecting the including cyber and relevant experience and business and considered information security risks, skills on the Board to best emerging risks corporate governance support the Groups and 2017 insurance achievement of its Received reports from the renewal programme strategic objectives Audit Committee on the findings of Rightmove Assurance People and Presentations by senior The Audit Committee The Remuneration Monitoring of Group values managers throughout the reported on Rightmove Committee reported on employee satisfaction year to ensure the Boards Assurances review of the proposed executive scores across a range exposure to the breadth employee incentivisation Remuneration Policy of criteria and depth of talent arrangements supporting business growth There are usually seven or eight scheduled Board meetings Board committees each year including one meeting or away day devoted to The Board has established three principal committees, consideration of the Groups strategy.
Additional meetings the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and can be arranged at short notice at the request of any the Nomination Committee, to assist it in the execution director, if required.
In addition to scheduled Board meetings, of its duties.
The Chairman of each Committee reports on there is regular informal dialogue between all directors.
the respective Committees activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
Directors receive Board papers well in advance of meetings to allow sufficient time for review and consideration.
If any The Committees terms of reference are available on the director raises a concern or challenges any aspect of the Companys corporate website, plc.
co. uk or by business conducted at a Board meeting, the Company request from the Company Secretary.
Secretary will ensure their comments are appropriately Each of the Committees is authorised, at the Companys recorded in the Board minutes.
In addition to formal Board expense, to obtain legal or other professional advice to papers, directors receive monthly management and financial assist in carrying out its duties.
No person other than a reports on the operational and financial performance of the Committee member is entitled to attend the meetings of business setting out actual and forecast financial these Committees, except by invitation of the Chairman of performance against approved budgets and other key that Committee.
Current membership of the Committees performance indicators.
The Board also receives copies of is shown on page 34.
The composition of these Committees broker reports and press releases relating to the Group.
is reviewed regularly, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 31 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Membership required under the Minimum number of Committee Committee Role and terms of reference terms of reference meetings per year report on pages Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on: At least three members Three 36 to 40 Group financial reporting: who should be the system of internal control and risk independent nonmanagement: executive directors independence and effectiveness of the external audit process: and the internal audit plan, results and effectiveness of Rightmove Assurance, the outsourced internal audit function.
Recommends the appointment of the external auditors to the Board for approval by shareholders Remuneration Makes recommendations to the Board on: At least three members Two 47 to 48: the Remuneration Policy and strategy for who should be 60 to 74 executive directors and senior managers: independent nonlong-term incentive arrangements: executive directors the design and determination of targets under any performance-related pay scheme: and any major changes in employee benefit structures with the objective of ensuring that directors and employees are incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Groups overall performance.
Careful consideration is given to the interests of the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Group Two Nomination Undertakes an annual review of organisation At least three members, 41 to 42 and succession planning and ensures that the majority of whom should be independent the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, non-executive directors remains appropriate Makes recommendations for the membership of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees Board composition Board changes The Board at the date of this report comprises three As part of the organisational changes announced on executive directors and six non-executive directors, 24 February 2017, Nick McKittrick, Chief Executive Officer, including the Chairman.
The three executive directors are will retire from the Board at the next AGM being 9 May 2017, Nick McKittrick Chief Executive Officer, Peter Brooksand Peter Brooks-Johnson currently Chief Operating Johnson Chief Operating Officer and Robyn Perriss Officer will become the Chief Executive Officer from that Finance Director.
The non-executive directors are Scott date.
Nick McKittrick will remain with the Company through Forbes Chairman, Peter Williams Senior Independent to 30 June 2017 to ensure a smooth transition process.
Director, Ashley Martin, Colin Kemp, Rakhi Goss-Custard Colin Kemp will also retire from the Board and relevant and Jacqueline fide Rojas.
Committees with effect from the AGM date, having served Biographical details of all directors at the date of this report nine years as a non-executive director.
appear on pages 28 to 29 and details of Committee Jacqueline fide Rojas joined the Board on 30 December 2016. membership appear on page 34.
All other directors served throughout the year.
Consideration of the Board size and composition is kept under regular review by the Nomination Committee.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Division of responsibilities The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and there are clear written guidelines to support their division of responsibilities.
The key responsibilities of the Board members are summarised below: Chairman Responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board, including: ensuring its effectiveness by creating and managing constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive directors: ensuring there is ongoing and effective communication between the Board and its key shareholders: and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion and effective decision making, and that directors receive sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear information.
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the day to day management of the Group, including: the operational and financial performance of the Group: developing the Groups objectives and strategy and following Board approval, the successful execution of strategy: effective and ongoing communication with shareholders: and chairing the Executive Committee.
Non-executive directors The role of the non-executive directors is to: constructively challenge the executive directors: and monitor the delivery of the strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
The non-executive directors bring wide and varied commercial experience and independent judgement to the Board and the Committees deliberations.
The breadth of management, financial and listed company experience of the non-executive directors is described in the biographical details on pages 28 to 29 and demonstrates a range of business expertise that provides the right mix of skills and experience given the size of the Group.
Senior Independent Director The role of the Senior Independent Director is to: act in an advisory capacity to the Chairman: deputise for the Chairman if required: serve as an intermediary for other directors when necessary: be available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or other executive directors for which such contact is inappropriate: and conduct an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening a meeting of the non-executive directors.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary: monitors compliance with appropriate Board procedures: advises the Board on corporate governance matters: assists the Chairman in ensuring that all the directors have full and timely access to relevant information: and assists the Chairman by organising directors induction and training programmes.
The Company Secretary also acts as Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for Board approval.
Board diversity representation on the Board.
As at 31 December 2016, 33% We are committed to a Board comprised of directors from of Board members were female and following the retirement different backgrounds with diverse and relevant experience, of Nick McKittrick and Colin Kemp in May 2017, this will rise to perspectives, skills and knowledge.
We believe that diversity, 43% with 50:50 representation at an executive director level.
including gender diversity, amongst directors contributes We remain committed to recruiting the best people and towards a high performing and effective Board and business, so appropriate talent for the business and will seek to recruit we strive to maintain the optimal balance.
We endorse both a qualified directors with an ideal of achieving as near equivalent meritocratic Board appointment process and balanced gender gender balance on the Board as possible.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 33 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Board independence Re-election to the Board The Code provides that the Board should identify in Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance the Annual Report each non-executive director that with the Articles of Association of the Company and the it considers to be independent.
That is, to determine provisions of the Companies Act.
All directors are subject to whether the director is independent in character and election at the first AGM following their appointment and in judgement and whether there are relationships or accordance with the Code, all directors will seek re-election circumstances which are likely to affect, or could at the 2017 AGM with the exception of Nick McKittrick and appear to affect, the directors judgement.
Colin Kemp, who have notified the Company of their retirement from the Board as at this date.
The Board reviews non-executive director independence on an annual basis taking into account such factors as their Board and Committee membership and attendance contribution to unbiased and independent debate during The membership of the Committees of the Board and meetings.
The Board considers that there is an appropriate attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the year balance between the executive and non-executive directors under review are set out in the table below: and that all non-executive directors are fully independent of Remuneration Audit Nomination management and independent in character and judgement.
Committee Committee Committee Board Colin Kemp completed nine years service as a nonTotal meetings 7 6 5 2 executive director in July 2016 and will retire following the 1 2017 AGM.
The Board does not believe that the period from Scott Forbes 7 4 2 his nine-year anniversary to his retirement date will impair Nick McKittrick 7 Colin Kemps independence in character or judgement.
Peter Brooks- 7 Johnson To safeguard their independence, a director is not entitled to vote on any matter in which they may be conflicted or have a Robyn Perriss 7 personal interest.
Where necessary, directors are required Colin Kemp 7 6 2 to absent themselves from a meeting of the Board while 2 Ashley Martin 7 1 5 2 such matters are being discussed.
In cases of doubt, the Peter Williams 7 6 5 2 Chairman of the Board is responsible for determining 3 whether a conflict of interest exists.
Rakhi Goss-Custard 7 6 5 2 The Chairman is also the Chairman of another publically 1 The Remuneration Committee Chairman invited the Chairman of the Board to attend all Remuneration Committee meetings.
The executive directors do not hold any 2 The Remuneration Committee Chairman invited Ashley Martin to attend one other non-executive directorships or commitments Remuneration Committee meeting as a guest for consideration of bonus and requiring disclosure under the Code.
long-term incentive plan performance targets.
3 Rakhi Goss-Custard was invited to attend two Nomination Committee meetings on a guest basis.
Board tenure Balance of directors as at 31 December 2016 as at 31 December 2016 In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present when required.
Peter 3 3 3 Williams, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a meeting 5 of the non-executive directors at which the performance of the Chairman was also reviewed, without the presence of 1 1 2 the Chairman.
0-3 3-6 6-9 9 Executive Chairman Nonyears years years years directors executive directors 34 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Indemnification of directors Annual General Meeting The Articles of Association of the Company allow for a The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to vote on qualifying third party indemnity provision between the aspects of the Companys business, meet the directors and Company and its directors and officers, which remains in ask them questions.
The AGM will be held on 9 May 2017 at force at the date of this report.
The Group has also arranged the offices of UBS Limited at 5 Broadgate, London EC2M 2QS.
directors and officers insurance cover in respect of legal The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and related action against the directors.
Neither our indemnity nor the papers to be available on the Companys corporate website insurance provides cover in the event that a director is at plc.
co. uk or posted to shareholders where proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
requested at least 20 working days before the AGM.
The Group has a Dealing Code setting out the process and The Company continues to comply with the Code with timing for dealing in shares, which is compliant with the the separation of all resolutions put to shareholders.
The Dealing Code applies to all The Company proactively encourages shareholders to directors, who are persons discharging managerial vote at general meetings by providing electronic voting for responsibility, and other insiders.
shareholders who wish to vote online and personalised proxy Shareholder relations cards to all shareholders, ensuring that all votes are clearly The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance identifiable.
The Company presently takes votes at general and activities of the Group and welcomes opportunities to meetings on a show of hands on the grounds of practicality, engage with shareholders.
owing to the limited number of shareholders in attendance.
All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy votes, Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the directors including abstentions, lodged for each resolution are have conducted regular dialogue with shareholders through reported after each resolution and published on the ongoing meetings with institutional investors and research Companys website.
firms to discuss strategy and operational and financial performance.
Contact in the UK is principally with the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director.
The Chairman attends selected investor meetings in the UK and the USA.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to shareholders if they wish to supplement their communication, or if contact through the normal channels is inappropriate.
The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the Companys investors through reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director, as well as reports from the Companys joint brokers, UBS and Numis.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Groups activities through the half year results statement and Annual Report and the investor relations section of its website, at plc.
co. uk, which provides details of all the directors, the financial calendar, latest news including financial results, investor presentations and Stock Exchange announcements.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 35 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report Ashley Martin Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear shareholder This report also outlines the significant accounting matters I am pleased to present the 2016 report of the Audit which received our particular focus during the year.
It seeks Committee the Committee.
to explain why the issues are considered significant and together with the external auditors report provides This report provides an overview of the principal activities additional context for understanding the Groups accounting of the Committee and details how it has discharged its policies and financial statements for the year.
We were delighted to receive communication from the The Committee is an essential part of Rightmoves Financial Reporting Council FRC that following a review governance framework to which the Board has delegated of our 2015 Annual Report and financial statements, there oversight of the accounting, financial reporting and internal were no queries or issues arising.
control processes, the outsourced internal audit function and the relationship with the external auditors.
The key Looking forward to the next 12 months, the Committee will responsibilities are set out on page 32 of the Corporate continue to focus on the audit, assurance and risk processes Governance Report.
within the Group, including specific reviews in relation to cyber security risk, quality of member data and data privacy.
The Committee has completed a detailed programme of work in 2016 in relation to its remit, including challenge I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about and debate in relation to the outsourced risk and assurance the work of the Committee.
programme delivered by  LLP A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be PwC, known as Rightmove Assurance, and ensuring it is found on the Companys website at: plc.
The Committee has also considered a number of new and emerging business risks and regulatory requirements.
These included a review of the potential impact on Rightmove of changes in the housing market environment following the UKs decision to leave the EU, and a review of the requirements of the Finance Bill 2016 in relation to the Groups tax strategy together with compliance with the Senior Accounting Officer Regime, and the reporting Ashley Martin requirements under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 36 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Composition and attendance at meetings Financial reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial Committee members Number of meetings attended reporting is to review with the assistance of both Ashley Martin management and the external auditor the half year results Chairman of the Committee 5 statement and the Annual Report and financial statements Peter Williams 5 relating to the Groups financial performance.
Rakhi Goss-Custard 5 The key significant area of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 Annual Report is revenue The Committee consists entirely of independent nonrecognition: details of how this was addressed by the executive directors, the biographical details of whom can be Committee are provided below.
There has been no change to the composition of the Committee during the year.
The Board is Revenue recognition satisfied that both Ashley Martin and Peter Williams have The key area of judgement is the timing of revenue recent and relevant financial skills and experience.
Both have recognition in relation to the billing of subscription fees and professional qualifications with the Institute of Chartered additional products and services and the accounting for any Accountants of England and Wales.
We consider that every membership offers to customers with discounted or free member of the Committee has competence relevant to periods.
This was a prime area of audit focus with KPMG Rightmoves business and the sector in which we operate.
performing detailed analytical procedures, including using computer assisted audit techniques, throughout the year on The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two amounts billed to the two largest customer groups Agency members.
Appointments to the Committee are for a and New Homes, together with the billing of Overseas period of up to three years, extendable by no more than customers.
KPMG investigated anomalies and outliers two additional three-year periods, so long as members identified and provided detailed reporting to the Committee continue to be independent.
The Committee discussed any reported The Finance Director and the Head of Finance are normally anomalies highlighted by KPMG ensuring that adequate invited to attend the meetings as well as the external auditor, explanations were received from management in line with KPMG and the internal auditor, PwC.
Other relevant people their business understanding.
A separate review of billing from the business are also invited to attend certain meetings and controls within the non-core revenue streams was also in order to provide a deeper level of insight into certain key undertaken by Rightmove Assurance.
In addition, the issues and developments.
The Committee regularly meets Committee received regular updates from management separately with the external and internal auditors without discussing current customer offers and their impact on others being present.
The Committee Chairman briefs the Board on the matters The Committee was satisfied with the explanations provided discussed at each meeting and minutes of the Committee and conclusions reached.
meetings are circulated to the Board once approved.
The Fair balanced and understandable effectiveness of the operation of the Committee was At the request of the Board, the Committee was asked to reviewed as part of the effectiveness review of the Board consider whether the 2016 Annual Report and accounts, taken and its committees in December 2016, details of which can as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 42. the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Each Board member responded to key questions on Board Groups performance, business model and strategy.
performance and commented generally on the performance of Board Committees.
The Board received positive feedback The Committee was provided with an early draft of the on the Committees performance, in particular, noting the Annual Report in order to assess the strategic direction and improved engagement between Rightmove Assurance and key messages being communicated.
Feedback was provided the business during the year.
by the Committee in advance of the February Board meeting, highlighting any areas where the Committee believed further clarity was required.
The draft report was then amended to incorporate this feedback prior to being tabled at the Board meeting for final comment and approval.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 37 Governance | Corporate governance report continued When forming its opinion, the Committee reflected on the information it had received and its discussions throughout the year.
In particular, the Committee considered: Is the report fair?
Is the whole story presented and has any sensitive material been omitted which should have been included?
Are key messages in the narrative aligned with the KPIs and are they reflected in the financial reporting?
Is the reporting on the business areas in the narrative reporting consistent with the financial reporting in the financial statements?
Do you get the same messages when reading the front end and back end of the Annual Report independently?
Are the alternative performance measures explained clearly with appropriate prominence?
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and significant issues reported in this Committee Report consistent with disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
How do these compare with the risks that KPMG are planning to include in their Auditors Report?
Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the Annual Report?
Are the important messages highlighted appropriately throughout the Annual Report?
Is the Annual Report written in easy to understand language and are the key messages clearly drawn out?
Is the Annual Report free of unnecessary clutter?
During the year and in accordance with the approved internal Following its review, the Committee is of the opinion that the audit plan, Rightmove Assurance carried out work in the 2016 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and following areas: understandable and provides the information necessary for financial controls: review of the risks and controls in relation shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
to the revenue and billing processes within our other revenue streams, being all business units other than Financial Reporting Council Agency and New Homes: During the year, Rightmove received a letter from the business continuity planning and Crisis Response: a FRC to confirm that the Annual Report for the year ended comprehensive review and update of plans for the Milton 31 December 2015 had been subject to review by its Keynes and London offices, and testing of business Conduct Committee, which is responsible for reviewing and continuity readiness: investigating the annual accounts, directors and strategic review of non-financial reporting KPIs: including reports of UK public companies.
The letter from the FRC comparisons with public reporting by other quoted peers: communicated that following this review, no questions or reward and incentivisation: an assessment of the structure queries have been raised.
The FRC noted that its role was and philosophy of reward within the Group for employees not to verify information, but to consider compliance with excluding directors: and reporting requirements, and it did not take responsibility Senior Accounting Officer SAO regime: review of for reliance on its letter by any party.
Rightmoves tax risk framework in advance of Rightmove entering the SAO regime in 2017.
Internal audit The Group established an internal audit function during 2015 Reports setting out the principal findings of the Rightmove known as Rightmove Assurance which is outsourced to PwC.
Assurance reviews and agreed management actions were The aim of Rightmove Assurance is to provide independent discussed by the Committee.
and objective assurance on the effectiveness of internal control, risk management and governance processes.
Effectiveness of the internal audit process This includes assurance that underlying controls and The work of Rightmove Assurance has provided a key processes are working effectively, as well as specialist additional source of assurance and support to management reviews that focus on emerging risks in new and evolving and the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal areas of the business.
controls as well as providing guidance and recommendations to further enhance the internal control environment, and provide specialist insight into areas of change in the business.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements The first review by the Committee of the effectiveness of Non-audit services the Rightmove Assurance function took place in early 2016.
The Committee discussed its responsibilities to safeguard The evaluation was led by the Committee Chairman and audit objectivity and independence as well as the needs of included consideration of stakeholder feedback on the the business and agreed that it was practical in certain quality of Rightmove Assurance activity, including from PwC limited cases for the auditor to be assigned to other nonthemselves.
The evaluation concluded that Rightmove audit project work due to their knowledge and expertise of Assurance had added value to the business in its first year the business.
in providing further assurance on financial controls and The Committee approved an updated non-audit fee policy increasing the robustness of the risk review process.
It was in November 2015 in advance of the EU Audit Directive also seen as helpful in setting priorities for management implemented in June 2016, and adopted by the FRC in its and allowing access to specialist input that Rightmove Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
Following the introduction of does not have in-house.
The evaluation had a number updated FRC guidelines, the non-audit fee policy has been of recommendations for PwC and Rightmove that were updated to give management the authority to incur permitted incorporated into the 2016 Rightmove Assurance plan.
non-audit fees of up to 15,000 in any financial year without External audit prior approval of the Committee.
Thereafter all additional fees The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the will be referred to the Committee in advance, subject to a cap relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor.
on permitted non-audit fees of 70% of the average audit fees over the three preceding financial years.
Permitted non-audit KPMG LLP was re-appointed as the Groups auditor in 2013 services are any services which are not identified as prohibited following an audit tender and, in accordance with the EU Audit services in the FRC Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
Directive implemented in 2016, the Group will be required to put the external audit contract out to tender by 2023.
The level of non-audit fees as a proportion of the audit fee The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner has typically been very low at Rightmove.
The non-audit responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current services provided by KPMG have historically related to tax lead partner, Karen Wightman, has been in place for four advisory services which are now prohibited, and as a result, years, and therefore the Committee and management will PwC were appointed as Rightmoves tax advisors in 2016. work with KPMG to ensure a smooth transition to a new audit Details of the non-audit fee services provided by KPMG can partner, commencing during the 2017 audit process.
be found in Note 6 of the financial statements.
The Committee approved the fees of KPMG for the year Additional areas of focus of the Committee during 2016 as set out in Note 6 of the financial statements.
The Committee considers new and emerging risks as the business and regulatory environment evolves.
This resulted Effectiveness of the external audit process in the following items being discussed by the Committee The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent during 2016: on a number of factors.
These include the quality, continuity, housing market: consideration of the potential impact on experience and training of audit personnel, business Rightmove of the greater level of uncertainty in the housing understanding, technical knowledge and the degree of market following the vote to leave the EU: rigour applied in the review processes of the work data protection, and use of consumer personal data: undertaken, together with appropriate audit risk Modern Slavery Act 2015: review of the proposed steps to identification at the start of the audit cycle.
be taken prior to the publication of a Modern Slavery Act The Committee evaluated the effectiveness of the audit statement and approval of the draft statement: and process in addressing these matters together with input consideration of the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from from management.
Areas the Committee considered in this Contracts with Customers on the Groups financial review included the quality of audit planning and execution, statements.
engagement with the Committee and management, quality Internal controls of reporting and capability and experience of the audit team.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system For the 2016 financial year, the Committee was satisfied that of internal controls and has established a framework of there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the financial and other controls which is periodically reviewed primary areas of audit risk and concluded that the in accordance with the FRC Internal Control: Guidance to performance of KPMG remained efficient and effective.
Directors publication for its effectiveness.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 39 Governance | Corporate governance report continued The Board has taken, and will continue to take, appropriate clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and measures to ensure that the chances of financial investment, including appropriate authorisation levels, with irregularities occurring are reduced as far as reasonably larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring possible by improving the quality of information at all levels in Board approval: the Group, fostering an open environment and ensuring that a comprehensive disaster recovery and business continuity financial analysis is rigorously undertaken.
Any system of plan based upon: internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate co-hosting of the rightmove.
co. uk platforms across three the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only separate locations which is regularly tested and reviewed: provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against and material misstatement or loss.
the capability for employees to remote work from home or a third party location in the event of a loss of one of our The Groups management has established the procedures premises which has been tested for the Milton Keynes necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for office during the year: identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to regular testing of the security of the IT systems and the Group.
These procedures have been in place for the platforms, regular backups of key data and ongoing threat whole of the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and up monitoring to protect against the risk of cyber attack: to the date of the approval of these financial statements and a treasury function which manages cash flow forecasts they are reviewed regularly.
and cash on deposit and counterparty risk: and whistleblowing and bribery policies of which all employees The key elements of the system of internal control are: are made aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with major commercial, strategic, competitive and financial risks are formally identified, quantified and assessed and line management or, if appropriate, confidentially outside discussed with the executive directors, after which they are their line management.
considered by the Board: Through the procedures outlined above, the Board, with a comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and advice from the Committee, has considered all significant monitoring Group results.
This includes monthly aspects of internal control for the year and up to the date of management reporting and monitoring of performance this Annual Report.
No significant failings or weaknesses against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for were identified during this review.
However, had there been all significant variances: any such failings or weaknesses, the Board confirms that an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
responsibility and delegation of authority: 40 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report Scott Forbes Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholder Jacqueline fide Rojas was appointed as a non-executive I am pleased to present the 2016 report of the Nomination director on 30 December 2016, following an external search Committee the Committee.
by Korn Ferry International Korn Ferry.
The Board currently consists of nine directors including six non-executive The Committees role is to regularly review the structure, directors, five of which are considered to be independent.
size and composition of the Board with the objective of Following the retirement of Nick McKittrick Chief Executive matching the evolving skills, knowledge and experience Officer and Colin Kemp non-executive director at the required by the business.
The Committee seeks to optimise 2017 AGM, the Board will comprise seven directors two the Boards performance and ensure the continued ability executive directors and five non-executive directors.
of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace, I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about and make recommendations to the Board with regard to the work of the Committee.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website at: plc.
These were updated during the year with the key Scott Forbes responsibilities as follows: Chairman of the Nomination Committee Board Review the structure, size and composition of composition the Board and make recommendations on any Composition and attendance at meetings and changes The following non-executive directors are members of the appointments Identify and nominate suitable candidates Committee.
The Committee met twice during the year and to fill Board vacancies attendance at the meetings is shown below: Recommend the membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Committee members Number of meetings attended Organisation Review the organisation and succession plan in Scott Forbes and succession order to identify skills and expertise for the Chairman of the Committee 2 planning Group to meet its strategic objectives Peter Williams 2 Make recommendations to the Board concerning plans for succession for both 2 Ashley Martin executive and non-executive directors and, in Colin Kemp 2 particular, for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rakhi Goss-Custard and Nick McKittrick attended both Board Evaluate the performance of the Board both meetings by invitation.
evaluation collectively and individually against agreed performance criteria Membership Determine the level of Board effectiveness The Committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors, based on the assessment and recommend any whose biographical details can be found on pages 28 to 29. actions to improve performance As at 31 December 2016 three out of the four members of the Committee were considered by the Board to be independent.
In 2016 the Committee reviewed the organisation and The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two members.
succession plans, recommended the appointment of a new At the request of the Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive non-executive director and conducted an internal Board Officer is normally invited to attend the meeting to discuss the and Committee evaluation.
Further details of the Board annual organisation and succession plan.
evaluation can be found on page 42 of this report.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 41 Governance | Corporate governance report continued The Chairman of the Company may not chair the Board effectiveness and evaluation Committee in connection with any discussion about the The Board is committed to undertaking annual reviews appointment of his successor.
In these circumstances, of its own performance and also the performance of its the Senior Independent Director will take the chair.
Appointments are for a period of up to three years, The Committee considered the conclusions of the Board extendable by no more than two additional three-year Strategy Review externally facilitated by Korn Ferry in 2015, periods, so long as Committee members continue to and agreed a candidate profile for a new non-executive be independent.
director to join the Board in advance of Colin Kemps retirement following the 2017 AGM.
The Committee Principal activities of the Committee during 2016 recommended the appointment of Jacqueline fide Rojas During the year the Committee has: as a recognised technology leader with relevant customer reviewed the Board composition: engagement experience and an advocate for increased reviewed the Board committees composition: opportunities for women and diversity in both the approved the plans for the organisation and succession boardroom and technology workplace.
The Committee of the executive directors and senior management: has also agreed a candidate profile and initiated a search by agreed the process for and considered actions based Korn Ferry for a non-executive director with suitable skills upon the findings of the Board evaluation: and experience to replace Ashley Martin, when he retires recommended the appointment of a non-executive from the Board and as Audit Committee Chairman in director: May 2018. considered the diversity of the Board and updated the policy regarding gender diversity on the Board: and The Board has undertaken an internal self-assessment conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
Directors were invited to provide feedback via the Company Secretary on Board and Committee Board induction and training performance and answer key questions relating to the All new non-executive directors joining the Board undertake Boards strengths, improvements during the year and which a tailored induction programme to meet their individual business risks and development opportunities should needs.
This covers for example: the strategic challenges receive more focus.
The Committee and Board discussed and opportunities facing the Group, financial performance, the feedback at the Committee meeting in December 2016 operational activities including meeting with members of and recommended a number of actions and areas of focus the senior management team and spending a day on the for the Board during 2017.
It was agreed that the Board has road with a sales director meeting our customers, the benefited from access to members of senior management role of the Board including the matters reserved to it for and such interaction should continue at future board approval, and the responsibilities of the Board Committees.
Additionally, the Board seeks more opportunities New directors receive a comprehensive induction pack of to enhance its understanding of the customer perspective.
corporate information and a briefing from the Company Secretary covering corporate governance, Group policies The evaluation concluded that the Board and its and relevant regulations.
Committees continue to operate effectively with strong individual contributions from executive directors, open, Individual Board members have access to training and can constructive debate and a good balance of support and seek the advice from independent professional advisers, at challenge from the non-executive directors.
the Groups expense, where specific expertise or training is required in furtherance of their duties.
An internally facilitated review of the performance of the Board and its Committees will again be conducted during 2017.
