STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRODUCTION Corporate governance Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate Committee assesses the independence of the The board and management governance to comply with the regulatory non-executive directors against an Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a obligations associated with its three principal independence framework which takes into common board of directors.
The directors are stock exchange listings in the UK, Australia account the requirements of the Code, the ASX responsible for the success of the Group and, and the US.
Principles and the NYSE Standards.
This through the independent oversight of framework is reviewed and approved annually management, are accountable to shareholders Statement of compliance with by the Nominations Committee.
for the performance of the business.
governance codes and standards Among the key criteria of the independence in 2016 Role and responsibilities framework are independence from The principal role of the board is to set the management and the absence of any business In compiling this report, the directors have Groups strategy and to review regularly its relationship which could interfere with the referred to the April 2016 edition of the UK strategic direction.
In doing this, the board also directors independence of judgement and his  theCode, the has responsibility for corporate governance.
or her ability to provide a strong, valuable Australian Securities Exchange Corporate contribution to the boards deliberations, or Governance Councils Corporate Governance A formal schedule of matters reserved for the rd which could interfere with the directors ability Principles and Recommendations 3 edition board has been established by the directors.
to act in the best interests of the Group.
the ASX Principles, and the New York Stock This covers areas such as setting of the Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance Groups strategy and monitoring the Groups The chairman was considered independent Standards theNYSEStandards.
performance in the delivery of such strategy, upon his appointment under the Code and, in major investments, acquisitions and theboardsview,  Throughout 2016, and at the date of this divestments, oversight of risk and the Groups tests for independence under the ASX report, the Group applied the principles of, and risk appetite, and reviewing the Groups Principles and the NYSE Standards.
Matters reserved for and the ASX Principles.
Having reviewed the framework and used it to the board also include approval of the Groups assess the independence of the non-executive Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Annual Plan, and any other matters that have directors, the board is satisfied that all of its Depositary Receipts ADRs listed on the significant financial, reputational, social and or non-executive directors are, and remain, NYSE,  environmental implications.
disclose any significant ways in which its .
practices of corporate governance differ from Non-executive directors serving more than Responsibility for day-to-day management of the NYSE Standards.
six years are subject to a particularly rigorous  independence review by the Nominations The Company has reviewed the NYSE and other members of the Executive Committee.
Consequently, the Committee Standards and believes that its practices are Committee under a Group delegation of closely reviewed the continuing independence broadly consistent with them, with the authorities.
A number of management of Ann Godbehere who has served on the following exceptions where the literal committees support the chief executive and board for six years and Paul Tellier who will requirements of the NYSE Standards are not the Executive Committee in the performance of have served on the board for more than nine met due to differences in corporate governance their duties.
The structure of these committees years by the end of 2017.
In the case of Ann between the US, UK and Australia.
Godbehere, the Committee took into account The NYSE Standards state that companies As part of the annual financial planning her significant contribution to the board as must have a nominating corporate governance process, the board sets annual performance Chair of the Audit Committee, as well as the committee composed entirely of independent targets, which include personal and business combination of her strong financial and directors which, in addition to identifying performance measures, under the Groups accounting expertise, her extensive sector individuals qualified to become board short-term incentive plan detailed on page 79 experience and her detailed understanding of members, develops and recommends to the for the chief executive.
These performance the Rio Tinto business.
In the case of Paul board a set of corporate governance principles targets are determined by the Remuneration Tellier, the Committee concluded that, in applicable to the company.
Rio Tinto has a Committee on behalf of the board.
The chief addition to relevant sector experience, the Nominations Committee comprising the executive establishes targets for the Executive board would continue to place significant chairman and independent non-executive Committee.
Those objectives are cascaded reliance on his perspectives and advice on directors, information about which is set out on throughout management teams.
His length of service would page61.
 also provide valuable continuity during a period Details of the terms of appointment of the corporate governance principles for the of refreshment of the composition of the board.
directors and members of the Executive boards approval.
The board itself develops As a result of this review, the Nominations Committee are discussed in the Remuneration such principles.
Committee is confident that both Ann and Paul Policy section of the Remuneration Report on continue to be independent members of the Under US securities law and the NYSE pages70and77.
 board and therefore has recommended to the Standards, the Company is required to have an the executive directors and other members of board that they be allowed to stand for audit committee that is directly responsible for the Executive Committee are discussed in the re-election at the forthcoming annual general the appointment, compensation, retention and Implementation Report section of the meetings.
oversight of the work of external auditors.
While the Rio Tinto Audit Committee makes Directors other directorships Board balance and independence recommendations to the board on these Executive directors may be invited to become Board composition matters, and is subject to legal and regulatory non-executive directors of other companies.
The names, skills and experience of each requirements on oversight of audit tenders, The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the director, together with their terms in office, are the ultimate responsibility for the board, operates a procedure under which shown in the biographical details on pages 50 compensation of the external auditors and the approval may be given to accept such to 52.
Details of changes to the board during appointment of the external auditors of invitations, recognising the benefit to be 2016 and in the year to date are set out in the Rio Tinto plc rests with the shareholders.
derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from Directors report on page 52. such appointments.
Specific consideration is Further information about the corporate Director independence also given to any actual or perceived conflicts governance framework is available in the The tests of independence of a non-executive of interest arising from external appointments Corporate governance section of director vary between the jurisdictions where of Rio Tinto non-executive directors, including Rio Tintos website.
The Nominations any situational conflicts for the purposes of the UK Companies Act, and whether such 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 55 Corporate governance continued appointments materially and adversely affect Directors receive timely, regular and The first stage of the evaluation process the ability of the directors to dedicate sufficient appropriate information to enable them to fulfil involved agreeing questions with the chairman time to their responsibilities to Rio Tinto.
They also have direct access to the and the committee chairmen for discussion advice and services of the Group company with directors and the Group company The board considers that, in compliance with secretary, who is accountable to the board and secretary in interviews which were conducted the requirements of the Code, each of the advises the chairman and, through the by Lintstock during the first half of 2016. directors is able to allocate sufficient time to chairman, the board on all governance matters.
Rio Tinto in order to discharge their The findings from these questionnaires and , through responsibilities effectively.
interviews formed the basis of evaluation the Group company secretary, independent reports for the board and its committees and The chief executive and the chief financial professional advice at the Groups expense.
formed the basis of certain recommendations officer do not hold any non-executive director The chairman and non-executive directors made by Lintstock in July 2016. positions at other companies.
meet, typically at the start of each board The board and board committee performance meeting, without the executive directors Election and re-election evaluation results and recommendations were The directors may appoint additional members present, to create an opportunity for then discussed at a meeting of the board in non-executive directors to raise any issues to join the board during the year.
A full review of the outcome of appointed in this way will be subject to election in private session.
the committee effectiveness evaluation was by shareholders at the first annual general In addition, the directors are in regular tabled for discussion with each committee in meetings after their appointment.
In communication with members of the Executive October 2016.
Outcomes from the subsequent years, the directors are expected Committee and other members of senior performance evaluation process were to submit themselves for annual re-election at management.
This helps to foster an open and considered and reviewed by the board at the annual general meetings.
regular exchange of knowledge and experience.
A series of On 10 February 2017, the board announced the recommended actions has been considered All new non-executive directors undertake a and approved by the board for implementation appointment of three new non-executive full, formal and tailored induction on joining the directors who will stand for election at the in 2017 aimed at enhancing the overall board.
The board is provided with training and effectiveness of the board and its committees.
2017 annual general meetings: David development opportunities during the year.
Constable, Sam Laidlaw and Simon Henry.
The The action plan, and progress and outcomes The directors regularly attend site visits to the against the plan, will also form the basis of appointments of David and Sam took  immediate effect, while Simons appointment future internal and external reviews.
The action with employees and, from time to time, plan includes items regarding regular reporting as a non-executive director will, subject to shareholders and other key stakeholders.
In election at the annual general meetings, take and discussion of investor feedback and the 2016, the board visited the Oyu Tolgoi copper outcomes of post-investment reviews: and effect on 1 July 2017.
Biographies of the new , and non-executive directors can be found on enhanced reporting to the board on changes to reviewed the progress being made on the thelegal,  pages 50 to 52. development of underground mining which Rio Tinto operates.
Robert Brown, who was first elected by operations at the site.
These visits are designed to ensure directors have appropriate The board will continue to monitor progress shareholders as a non-executive director at the 2010 annual general meetings, and Anne knowledge of the Company and access to its against these actions in 2017 and will report on operations and staff.
The boards decision to progress in next years annual report.
Lauvergeon, who was first elected at the 2014 annual general meetings, are not standing for visit Oyu Tolgoi reflects the importance of this The non-executive directors, led by the senior assettotheGroup.
 re-election in 2017 and will each step down independent director, are responsible for the from the board at the end of the annual general and resources that make it one of the worlds performance evaluation of the chairman.
largest known copper and gold deposits.
In meeting of Rio Tinto Limited in May 2017.
Lintstock facilitated this review through a addition, with a significant capital investment All directors apart from Robert and Anne will questionnaire and interviews, and provided a having been recently approved into the report to the senior independent director.
In offer themselves for election or re-election at development of the underground mine, Oyu the annual general meetings in 2017 and addition, directors met with the senior Tolgoi was considered of prime importance for independent director to give their view on the further details about each of them are set out aboardvisit.
on pages 50 and 51 of the Annual report and in performance of the chairman.
The senior Performance evaluation independent director provided feedback to the the notices of the annual general meetings.
 chairman on his performance at the conclusion Governance processes developing and recommending to the board of this process, factoring in the inputs received In 2016, there were nine scheduled board processes for the evaluation of the boards from the external consultants, and from meetings.
Details of the directors attendance performance, as well as that of its committees other directors.
at all of the board and committee meetings and individual directors.
held in 2016 are set out on the following page.
The chairman continues to be responsible for In accordance with the board approved process, the assessment of each individual  the effectiveness of the performance of the non-executive directors performance and management on the Groups strategy.
These board, all board committees and individual contribution.
The chairman met with each of discussions typically include presentations directors is assessed internally on an the non-executive directors in September 2016 given by senior management during the year.
to review their performance and training needs.
The board attends an annual two-day strategy Key outcomes from such evaluation process meeting with the Executive Committee, which In addition, performance evaluations are will be factored into subsequent development carried out by external consultants every three includes a broader, detailed review of the plans for each non-executive director, and Groups strategic direction.
The board engaged Lintstock Limited, a progress towards such development goals will specialist corporate governance consultancy this event help underpin the boards annual be monitored in future evaluation processes.
financial planning exercise and provide with no other connections to Rio Tinto, to undertake an external, independent evaluation strategic direction and focus to the Executive Committee.
of the board and its committees during 2016.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRODUCTION Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during 2016 Annual Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Chairmans general a a a a a a Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings Jan du Plessis 9 9 9 9 8 8 14 14 2 2 b Sam Walsh 9 9 4 5 2 2 c Jean-Sbastien Jacques 7 7 11 11 Chris Lynch 9 9 14 14 2 2 Robert Brown 9 9 6 6 8 8 1 2 d Megan Clark 9 9 5 5 5 5 8 8 2 2 Ann Godbehere 9 9 6 6 8 8 2 2 e Richard Goodmanson 4 4 5 5 3 3 4 4 2 2 f Anne Lauvergeon 9 9 5 5 6 8 1 2 Michael LEstrange 9 9 5 5 8 8 2 2 Paul Tellier 9 9 6 6 9 9 8 8 2 2 Simon Thompson 9 9 5 5 8 8 2 2 John Varley 9 9 6 6 9 9 8 8 2 2 a The number of meetings attended maximum number the director could have attended.
A number of additional ad hoc meetings of the board and board committees were held in 2016, including in relation to i the ongoing investigations relating to contractual payments made to a consultant who had provided advisory services on the Simandou project: and ii the investigation by relevant authorities, including the SEC, relating to the impairment that was included in the Companys 2012 accounts in respect of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique.
b Stood down from the board on 1 July 2016. c Appointed to the board on 17 March 2016. d Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2016. e Stood down from the board on 5 May 2016. f At the board meeting on 3-4 May 2016, Anne attended 4 May only.
may be viewed in the Corporate governance made to a consultant who had provided Governance structure section of the website.
advisory services on the Simandou project in The board has established committees which Guinea and the investigations by relevant The non-executive directors, excluding the are responsible for audit, remuneration, authorities, including the SEC, relating to chairman, who are members of each of the sustainability and nominations issues.
In impairment included in the Companys 2012 committees are all considered to be addition, a Chairmans Committee operates accounts in respect of Rio Tinto Coal independent in accordance with the under delegated authority between scheduled Mozambique.
Accordingly, a dedicated independence framework that has been board meetings.
These committees support sub-committee of the board was established, approved by the Nominations Committee.
The the board in ensuring that high standards of chaired by the chairman of the board, to chief executive is assisted by various corporate governance are maintained across consider the ongoing issues regarding the management committees in monitoring the the Group.
It consists of members of the Groups performance and delivering Chairmans Committee, plus the chairman of The committees are governed by terms of Rio Tintos strategy.
the Audit Committee, the senior independent reference, set and approved by the board, The board determined that additional director and Simon Thompson.
The terms of consideration was required of the allegations reference of the Audit, Nominations,  arising in respect of the contractual payments Remuneration and Sustainability Committees organisation of the key board and management committees.
Board of directors Audit Sustainability Remuneration Nominations Chairmans Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief executive Disclosure Investment Executive Closure Ore Reserves Risk Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Steering Committee Committee Board committees Management committees 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 57 Corporate governance continued Board committees Audit Committee report Chairmans introduction Dear shareholders The Audit Committee fulfils an important oversight role on behalf of the Rio Tinto board and is focused on the quality of the Groups financial reporting and the effectiveness both of the Groups systems of internal control and its risk management processes.
In 2016, our activities included: Reviewing asset carrying values, cash generating units, pension valuations and other material accounting matters.
Reviewing Group Internal Audit findings and approving the Internal Audit Plan and budget and the associated resources.
Reviewing internal controls over financial reporting SOx testing results.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls systems.
Reviewing reports from the head of Group Ethics and Integrity.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems.
Considering the requirement for the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
Reviewing reports from the Ore Reserves Steering Committee and Closure Steering Committee.
Assessing managements projections under different scenarios to allow the board to make its assessment of the longer-term viability of the company.
We have also focused on ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, PwC: A new UK audit engagement partner, Paul Barkus, was appointed in 2016 in compliance with the five year rotation requirement for individuals fulfilling this role.
The Committee has also agreed to the replacement of the PwC Australian audit engagement partner at the end of the 2016 year-end audit process.
The Committee has conducted ongoing monitoring of all non-audit activities performed by the Groups external auditors and approved their audit engagement contracts and compensation.
The Committee has reviewed managements evaluation of the effectiveness of PwC for Group audit and local statutory audit work, as well as the outcomes of the Audit Quality Review of PwC by the Financial Reporting Council in the UK and the Quality Assurance Department of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Committees additional work during 2016 included undertaking training and development on relevant accounting topics, considering the findings from the 2015 evaluation of the Committees performance, and reviewing the impact of the EU Statutory Audit Amending Directive both on the regulatory environment in which the Group operates and on the way that the Committee will discharge its terms of reference in 2017.
In early 2017, the Committee considered, at the request of the board, the draft 2016 Annual report and accounts, to assess whether it is, taken as a whole, fair, balanced and understandable.
During the remainder of 2017, the Committee will follow our annual schedule of meetings and topics for discussion and approval and we will report on the same in 2018.
Continued focus in 2017 will be given by the Committee to the Groups controls enhancement programme, which is designed to refresh accountabilities with respect to financial and non-financial controls assurance and testing.
Ann Godbehere Audit Committee chairman 1 March 2017 58 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRODUCTION Membership the external auditors appointment Significant issues relating to the Members of the Committee are Ann Godbehere and relationship : financial statements chairman, Robert Brown, Paul Tellier and The significant issues considered by the the effectiveness of the risk management John Varley.
Committee in relation to the financial framework: and statements are set out in the table below, the integrity and compliance programme Key responsibilities together with a summary of how the issue was including the Groups Speak-OUT  addressed by the Committee.
In addition, the whistleblowing programme.
board in monitoring decisions and processes Committee and the external auditors have designed to ensure the integrity of financial In carrying out its responsibilities, the discussed the significant issues addressed by reporting and sound systems of internal control Committee has full authority to investigate all the Committee during the year and the areas of and risk management.
matters that fall within its terms of reference.
particular audit focus, as described in the Accordingly, the Committee may: The Committees terms of reference set out its Independent auditors report on pages 207 to main responsibilities, and are available to view 214. obtain, through the Group company onthewebsite.
TheCommitteeis secretary, independent professional advice responsible for: in the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of theGroup:and financial reporting:  internal control, including internal control Group as it may reasonably require over financial reporting: including the internal auditors, and have internal audit and assurance: direct access to the external auditors.
Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee Review of carrying value of The Committee assessed managements determination of cash-generating units, review of cash-generating units and impairment triggers and consideration of potential impairment charges and reversals over the impairment charges course of the year.
For cash-generating units dependent upon major capital spend Oyu Tolgoi and those where impairment indicators were identified Argyle Diamond Mine, the Committee considered the key judgments made by management in relation to discount rates, forecasted commodity prices and updates to resource estimates.
The Committee reviewed disclosures related to Oyu Tolgoi in note 6 on page 133 and the impairment charge of US$0.2 billion recorded in 2016 at the Argyle Diamond Mine.
Estimate of provision for closure, restoration The Committee reviewed the significant changes in the estimated provision for closure, and environmental obligations restoration and environmental obligations by product group and legacy management.
At 31 December 2016, the Groups balance sheet included provision for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations of US$8.7 billion as described in note 26 on page 146.
Policy for items excluded from The Committee approved the Groups policy for exclusion of certain items from underlying underlying earnings earnings and confirmed consistent application of this policy year on year.
The Committee reviewed action taken by management in late 2016 to reduce the foreign currency retranslation volatility arising from currency exchange gains and losses on US dollar intragroup balances by converting US dollar debt to local currency in Canada.
The items excluded from underlying earnings amounted to US$0.5 billion and are described in note 2 on page 130.
The Groups tax exposures The Committee considered managements assessment of the Groups tax exposures, including the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the appropriateness of provisions for uncertain tax positions.
The Committee reviewed key judgments made by management in respect of ongoing discussions with the Australian Tax Office relating to the transfer pricing of certain transactions with the Groups commercial centre in Singapore.
At 31 December 2016, the Groups balance sheet included a net tax payable of US$902 million.
Defined benefit pension plan During 2016, the Committee received a comprehensive update on the status of funding, surpluses and deficits investment performance and governance of pensions and other retirement benefit obligations provided to current and former employees of the Group.
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee critically assessed the projections of future cash flows under different scenarios of the financial statements and compared these with cash balances and committed facilities available to the Group.
The Committee satisfied itself that it was appropriate to recommend to the board the adoption by the Group of the going concern basis of preparation.
Contingent liabilities The Committee assessed certain matters in respect of which contingent liabilities exist.
In particular the Committee reviewed and recommended that contingent liabilities be disclosed in the financial statements in respect of the following matters: contractual payments totalling US$10.5 million made to a consultant who had provided advisory services on the Simandou project, in respect of which the authorities in the US, the UK and Australia have been notified: and investigation by relevant authorities, including the SEC, into an impairment included in the Companys 2012 accounts in respect of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique.
com 59 Corporate governance continued During the year, the Company received a letter The Code requires that the Committee as a status of the audit and the nature of from the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review whole shall have competence relevant to the interactions with management.
team in relation to the 2015 financial sector in which the company operates.
The During the year, the Committee reviewed the statements.
The Committee reviewed the members of the Committee have gained and effectiveness of PwC for Group audit and local response from management and discussed the illustrated relevant experience in the mining statutory audit work.
The evaluation, managed matter with the external auditors.
The FRC sector by virtue of their experience on the by the Groups financial controllers, took the Review team was satisfied with the board of the Company and on the Committee form of a survey comprising a range of response from the Company and had no over an extended period of time.
Further questions covering objectivity, quality and further questions.
sectoral expertise has been obtained by the efficiency, and was completed by individual members of the Committee as a result of Rio Tinto business units.
The results of this The Committee continues to review the multiple site visits that they have undertaken survey and review were assessed by the Groups systems for risk management and on a regular basis, and through relevant Committee which concluded that PwC internal controls on a regular basis to ensure training and development activities that the continued to provide an effective and that the company has the relevant processes Group has provided.
For the period 1 January 2016 to PwC have been the external auditors since The Committee considered reports from thedateofthisreport, withrespecttothe before the formation of the DLC structure in management in order to assess the quality and Internal Control: Guidance to Directors 1995, and their reappointment has not been effectiveness of the Groups internal control formerly the Turnbull Guidance, the subject to a tender during that time.
In the UK, systems, including the effectiveness of the Committee has concluded that executive the audit engagement partner Paul Barkus was Groups internal controls over financial management has taken or is taking appropriate appointed in 2016.
In Australia, the audit reporting and the Groups disclosure controls actions to remedy any failings or weaknesses engagement partner Paul Bendall was and procedures in accordance with sections identified through the operation of the Groups appointed in 2012 and will transition off the 404 and 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. framework of controls.
Continued focus in 2017 account at the end of the 2016 year-end audit The Committee separately received objective will be given by the Committee to the Groups process.
 reports from Group Internal Audit and PwC on controls enhancement programme, which is audit engagement partner in Australia.
the activities undertaken in reviewing and designed to refresh accountabilities with auditing the control environment.
The Committee considers its recommendations respect to financial and non-financial controls to the board on the appointment and The Committee meets privately with the heads assurance and testing.
During 2017, the board reappointment of external auditors annually, of Group Internal Audit and Ethics and Integrity and Committee will focus on the scope and and specifically has responsibility for from time to time without management frequency of risk management and internal establishing formal and transparent present and the chairman of the Committee control reporting and associated assurance in arrangements with PwC.
The Committee has has regular discussions with them.
accordance with the Financial Reporting reviewed the timetable for tendering the Councils: Guidance on Risk Management, external audit, taking into account all relevant The Committee maintains a clearly defined Internal Control and Related Financial and regulation and guidance.
In light of this, the policy for the pre-approval of permitted Business Reporting September 2014.
It is Committee has requested management to services provided by the Groups external also intended that a review of the Groups risk commence preparations for an audit tender to auditors, PwC.
For non-audit services, because management and internal controls systems enable an orderly transition to new auditors no of their knowledge, experience and or for and processes, and procurement and later than the 2020 financial year.
reasons of confidentiality, it may be more compliance programmes, be conducted in efficient or necessary to engage the external The Committee continues to believe that the 2017 by an independent, external third party, auditor rather than another party.
At half-year requirements of good governance and the  and year-end, the chief financial officer and the needs of Rio Tinto are best served by the Committee.
external auditors submit to the Committee a tendering in the above timeframe for the Governance processes schedule of the services that were performed following reasons: The Committee met six times in 2016.
The by PwC during the period.
The Committee has The Group continues to undergo significant chairman of the board, chief financial officer, imposed a financial limit on the total value of business process change.
A measured other senior management and external and the non-audit services that can be provided.
rotation timetable maintains stability in the internal auditors regularly attended the Any non-audit service provided by the external independent oversight provided by the Committees meetings.
The Committee carries auditors, where the expected fee exceeds a external auditors while the business fully out its business following an agreed annual pre-determined level, must be subject to the implements the changes to maximise cycle of meetings and topics for consideration.
 Rio Tinto draws on expertise from other In exceptional circumstances, the chief independent and free of any relationship that accounting firms and therefore a rotation of financial officer is authorised to engage the would affect their impartiality in carrying out external audit services will require careful external auditors to provide such services their responsibilities.
The members meet the planning of transition periods to ensure that without going to tender, but if the fees are independence requirements of the Code, the all services are effectively contracted expected to exceed certain pre-determined ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
The throughout the rotation process without limits the chairman of the Committee must Committee meets the composition, operation unnecessary disruption.
give prior approval of the engagement.
All of and responsibility requirements of the the engagements for services provided by PwC Rio Tinto ensures independence through other ASX Principles.
were either within the pre-approval policies or means, including detailed review, challenge separately approved by the Committee.
The and reporting of all work performed by The Committee is also bound by SEC Committee members are satisfied that the accounting firms.
A summary is presented requirements for audit committees financial provision of non-audit services by PwC in annually to the Committee of the fees incurred experts and the requirements of the Code and accordance with this procedure is compatible and nature of work performed.
Further ASX Principles that at least one committee with the general standard of independence for information on fees paid to PwC in 2016 for member should have recent and relevant auditors imposed by relevant regulations.
audit and non-audit services are set out on financial qualifications and experience.
Ann A breakdown of the categories of permitted page 49 of the Directors report.
Godbehere, chairman of the Committee, is non-audit services and the fees paid to PwC for considered by the board to have recent and The Committee does however keep the .
relevant financial experience, and financial external audit arrangements under regular qualifications, and has been designated the review and, if it deems it appropriate, the The external auditors attended all six Committees financial expert.
All other Committee would accelerate the planned Committee meetings during the year.
In members of the Committee are, in the opinion appointment of new auditors at any time.
advance of the Committee meetings, the audit oftheboard,  partners brief the chairman of the Committee The Company confirms that it complied with by virtue of their business experience.
Private discussion sessions the provisions of the UK Competition and were held between PwC and the Committee Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year without management present to discuss the under review.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Sustainability Committee report and the chief financial officer Chris Lynch.
as the chief executive of the Group.
In Members of the Committee are Megan Clark Sam Walsh was also a member of the recommending this appointment, the chairman, Anne Lauvergeon, Michael Committee until July 2016 in his role as chief Committee considered Jean-Sbastien to be a LEstrange and Simon Thompson.
Richard executive at such time.
highly regarded leader, who has considerable Goodmanson former chairman of the operational experience, a proven track record Key responsibilities Committee stood down from the Committee of successful business delivery and an The Committee acts on behalf of the board on 5 May 2016 on his retirement from the excellent blend of strategic and operational between scheduled board meetings either in board, and Megan Clark assumed chairmanship expertise.
Jean-Sbastien was appointed accordance with specific authority delegated by of the Committee.
deputy chief executive in March 2016 and the board or as specifically set out within its assumed the role of chief executive in termsofreference.
 Key responsibilities July 2016 upon Sam Walshs retirement from of the board and ensures that the business of The Committee assists the board with the business.
 overseeing strategies designed to manage planned and aligned with management.
When In addition to the chief executive succession social and environmental risks, overseeing mandated by the board, the Chairmans process, the Committee engages Egon management processes and standards, and Committee will consider urgent matters Zehnder as an external recruitment consultant achieving compliance with health, safety, between board meetings.
Other than for the from time to time.
Egon Zehnder conducts environment and communities HSEC chairman of the board whose remuneration is searches and executive evaluations for a responsibilities and commitments.
It is set by the Remuneration Committee, the number of Rio Tinto positions, not only at board responsible for reviewing, at least annually, Committee performs the annual review of and Executive Committee level, and has no periodic reports from management that non-executive directors fees and makes a other connection with the Company.
identify the Groups material business risks recommendation to the board.
within the Committees scope and the risk In 2016, the Committee also engaged Egon management strategies and controls applied to This year the Committee reviewed the Zehnder to conduct a search for new prevent and mitigate these risks.
The non-executive directors fees and non-executive directors.
The recruitment Committees terms of reference set out its recommended an increase the first increase process commenced in June 2016 with an main responsibilities, and are available to view since 2014.
As a result, the total amount of the initial longlist of candidates which was on the website.
non-executive directors fees for the 2016 reviewed by the chairman and Egon Zehnder.
For more Following initial contact with potential suitable Governance processes details regarding non-executive directors fees, individuals, a short list of candidates was drawn In 2016, the Committee met five times.
The please refer to the Remuneration Report on up.
Interviews were conducted with the chairman of the board, chief executive, Group page 88. short-listed candidates by members of the executive, Health, Safety and Environment and Committee, following which the Committee other senior management regularly attend Nominations Committee report decided to recommend the appointments of its meetings.
Members of the Committee comprise Sam Laidlaw, Simon Henry and David Jan du Plessis chairman and all Constable as non-executive directors.
In 2016, the Committee: Theboard,  Key responsibilities Committee, continues to value diversity in its Reviewed key HSSEC risks associated with The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the broadest sense when considering safety, process safety and communities and board, for regularly assessing the balance of non-executive director appointments and, in social performance, and managements executive and non-executive directors and the addition to considering gender and ethnicity, plans for managing them, including risks composition of the board in terms of the skills, will seek to achieve within the boardroom the and controls associated with natural experience, diversity and capacity required to appropriate balance of skills, experience, disaster, underground safety, geotechnical oversee the delivery of Rio Tintos strategy.
independence and knowledge of Rio Tinto and activity, tailings, water management, The Committee develops and agrees in theindustryasawhole.
Thisisthecontextfor transportation and the risk management advance the desired profiles of potential the recent appointments of Sam, Simon approach for non-managed operations.
Reviewed work programmes formulated for the recruitment process and engages external HSSEC matters, and associated assurance The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the search consultants to manage searches on its over selected areas within the Committees board, recognises that gender diversity is a key behalf, including constructing shortlists terms of reference.
foundation for introducing different comprising candidates from diverse perspectives into Board debate.
It will remain  backgrounds and conducting appropriate focused on diversity issues in 2017 and, fatalities at the Paraburdoo operations and background and reference checks on specifically, when considering the next also at the non-managed shortlisted candidates.
Following a final review non-executive director appointments to Grasberg operation.
of shortlisted candidates, the Committee the board.
Assessed 2015 safety metrics and makes recommendations for new board recommended 2016 safety metrics in members to the board for approval.
On behalf of the board, the Committee also relation to fatalities and all injury frequency reviews proposals for appointments to the In 2016, the Committee oversaw the process in rates, and the impact this should have on Executive Committee and monitors executive respect of the appointment of a new chief short-term incentive plans.
Inearly2016, the Reviewed the 2015 Sustainable appointment of Jean-Sbastien Jacques as board received notification that Sam Walsh development online report and the chief executive, a review was conducted of the intended to retire in mid-2016.
The Sustainable development sections of the members of the Executive Committee, and the Nominations Committee conducted a detailed 2015 Annual report.
chief executive recommended that certain review of a number of internal and external strategic changes be made to the make-up of Evaluated the Committees performance candidates, and considered the findings of a the Executive Committee in order to support a and agreed actions.
review of the candidates conducted by new phase of development for the Group.
The recruitment consultant, Egon Zehnder.
After We draw to your attention the Sustainable Committee considered and reviewed the careful consideration, the Committee development report on pages 24 to 30. proposed appointment process and approved determined that an internal appointment was the succession planning changes that the chief Chairmans Committee report preferable.
Having considered the relative executive was seeking to implement, including The members of the Chairmans Committee attributes of the respective candidates, the the restructuring of Rio Tintos product groups.
are the chairman Jan du Plessis, the chief Nominations Committee recommended to the executive Jean-Sbastien Jacques, who board that Jean-Sbastien Jacques, previously The Committees terms of reference set out its attended the Committee from March 2016 to  main responsibilities, and are available to view July 2016 in his role as deputy chief executive businesses, be chosen to succeed Sam Walsh on the website.
com 61 Corporate governance continued Governance processes from 1 May 2016 and Simon Thompson with Board skills, experience and The Committee meets as required and, in effect from 23 November 2016. diversity 2016, met eight times.
Key responsibilities More information about the boards process for Remuneration Committee The Committee assists the board with fulfilling the selection, appointment and election of The report of the Remuneration Committee is its oversight responsibility to shareholders.
In  set out on pages 67 to 107.
The report was particular, the Committee seeks to spend governance section of the Groups website.
recommended by the Committee for approval compensation resource fairly and responsibly In leading a large global mining and metals bytheboard,  to ensure that remuneration policy and company, the board aims to evolve its on1March2017.
 practices are properly linked to corporate and composition by seeking non-executive sections dealing with the responsibilities of the individual performance and to the delivery of directors with diverse and complementary Committee and how it spent its time in 2016. the Groups strategy on behalf of our owners.
The board recognises The Committees terms of reference set out its Members of the Committee are John Varley that the evolution of the mix of skills and main responsibilities, and are available to view chairman, Jan du Plessis, Megan Clark, diversity gender and nationality is a on the Groups website.
Paul Tellier and Simon Thompson.
Richard long-term process and it weighs the various Goodmanson stood down from the Committee The Committee met nine times in 2016. factors relevant to board balance and diversity when he retired from the board on 5 May 2016. when vacancies arise.
The key attributes Megan Clark joined the Committee with effect relevant for our board are set out below.
Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects involving large-scale capital outlays and long-term investment horizons.
Executive leadership Sustainable success in business at a senior executive level.
Financial Proficiency in financial accounting and reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls, corporate funding, and the associated risks.
Global Experience in multiple global locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standard of governance, including experience with a major organisation that demonstrates rigorous governance standards.
Government relations geopolitical Interaction with government and regulators and involvement in public policy decisions.
Health, safety, security, environment and Familiarity with issues associated with workplace health and safety, security, environment communities and social responsibility and communities.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing, and development of product and or customer management strategies.
Extractive industries Senior executive and operational experience in a large mining or other extractive industry organisation involved in the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Remuneration Understanding of the link between strategy, performance, desired behaviours, long-term shareholder value creation and remuneration outcomes, as well as broader remuneration regulations and guidelines published by relevant shareholder and or investor bodies in the UK and Australia.
Risk management and internal control Experience in developing an asset or business portfolio over the long term that remains resilient to strategic, business and financial risks, and establishing risk management and internal control frameworks, setting risk appetite and overseeing organisational risk culture.
Strategy Proven ability in developing and implementing successful strategies, including appropriately probing and challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic objectives.
Technology A strong understanding of technology and innovation, and the development and implementation of initiatives to enhance production.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE expansion of training programmes aimed It is supported by a number of Group policies Inclusion and diversity at countering unconscious bias.
These are adopted after wide Our commitment to inclusion and diversity have targeted senior leaders, hiring consultation and, once adopted, are We are a global company and, wherever we managers and recruiters to help minimise communicated globally, to all of the Companys operate and across every part of our business, the impact of bias in recruitment and business units, together with related we strive to create an inclusive culture in which development practices, as well as to procedures, guidelines and resources to diversity is recognised and valued.
By bringing improve the cross-cultural interactions support implementation.
Management is together men and women from diverse and  needed to required to adhere to these policies and backgrounds and giving each person the globalise our business.
standards and any mandated procedures and to opportunity to contribute their skills, experience monitor their effectiveness.
The continuation of a three-year and perspectives, we believe that we are able to commitment by the chairman to mentoring develop the best solutions to challenges and Rio Tinto policies and standards address a high-potential female board candidates deliver value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders.
variety of important topics which apply to all our through the FTSE 100 Cross-company This approach is reflected and put into effect managed businesses.
Where the Group does Mentoring Programme.
through the Companys Diversity and inclusion not have operating responsibility for a business, policy, a copy of which is available on Rio Tintos policies and standards are Proportion of women employees and the website.
communicated to our business partners.
The board members company makes every effort to ensure that the In 2016, the proportion of women on the board What inclusion and diversity mean standards it espouses are respected at all times was27percent , for Rio Tinto and to encourage non-managed businesses to excluding the chairman.
Following the Embracing workforce diversity age, adopt similar policies and standards of appointment of three new male non-executive gender, race, national or ethnic origin, their own.
directors in February 2017, and the forthcoming religion, language, political beliefs, sexual retirement of Anne Lauvergeon from the board, orientation and physical ability.
Rio Tinto employees are required to undertake this percentage will reduce to 17 per cent training on the requirements of The way we Valuing diversity of perspective leveraging , excludingthe work and various policies and standards.
The board remains committed to working styles of our employees and Whistleblowing programme diversity and to seeking to ensure better gender other stakeholders.
Speak-OUT is the Groups confidential and balance in future appointments to the board.
Building a flexible organisation providing independently operated whistleblowing The proportion of women on the Executive opportunities for work arrangements that programme.
It offers an avenue through which Committee in 2016 was ten per cent.
The accommodate the diverse needs of employees, contractors, suppliers and proportion of women in senior management in individuals at different career and life stages.
customers of Rio Tinto managed sites can 2016 was 19.2 per cent and in the overall Respecting stakeholder report concerns, anonymously if they so workforce18.2percent.
Forthesepurposes, diversity developing strong and choose, subject to local law.
This can include senior management includes the business sustainable relationships with diverse any significant concerns about the business, or unit or functional unit leaders who are direct shareholders, communities, employees, the behaviour of individuals, including suspicion reports of Executive Committee members, and governments, customers and suppliers.
of violations of financial reporting, safety or those at general manager, Group adviser and environmental procedures or business integrity Our current focus chief adviser levels.
The programme features  telephone and web submissions, a case Subsidiary board diversity representative of the countries and management tool, and a reporting tool to allow Women represented 11.0 per cent of the communities in which we operate.
Currently,  directors of our principal controlled subsidiary our focus is to improve the representation of reporting.
Rio Tinto continuously considers undertakings during 2016 14 female: women and of people from nationalities ways to promote positive awareness of Speak- 113 male.
representative of our current and future OUT.
 footprint, and to continue to build an inclusive The way we work twice annually on Speak-OUT activity, with the culture in which all talent can thrive.
Sustainability Committee receiving an annual Policies and standards Some of the activities and initiatives relating to report on Speak-OUT relating to sustainable Rio Tintos commitment to integrity and diversity during 2016 are: development issues.
compliance is set out in The way we work, our Our inclusion and diversity steering global code of conduct, which is available on our committee continued to guide the inclusion website.
It sets out the behaviours the company and diversity agenda for the Group.
expects of its people, consistent with Rio Tintos values: safety, teamwork, respect, integrity The reinforcement of accountability and excellence.
amongst leaders of the product groups and functions for inclusion and diversity, with Measurable objectives and progress progress linked to incentive plans and Progress continues to be made in meeting our measurable objectives for workforce diversity, focusing on four key levers: leadership, which were first put in place at the start of 2011: inclusion, integration and business rationale.
Position during 2015 Progress during 2016  Women in Mining groups, professional Women represented 18.1 per cent of our senior Women represented 19.2 per cent of our womens associations and other targeted management in 2015. senior management in 2016. recruiting efforts to raise awareness about Women represented 43.0 per cent of our 2015 Women represented 46.4 per cent of our Rio Tinto and to increase the attraction, graduate intake.
development and retention of talented 33.3 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake were 36.2 per cent of our 2016 graduate women wherever we operate.
 intake were nationals from regions where Significant time was invested in integrating new businesses.
we are growing new businesses.
inclusion and diversity into the core practices and competencies of the business of the product groups to ensure we achieve irreversible change.
An example is the 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 63 Corporate governance continued Dealing in Rio Tinto securities person would expect to have a material effect issues.
The senior independent director met Rio Tinto operates rules which restrict the on its share price.
All information released to major investors in November 2016 to discuss dealing in Rio Tinto securities by directors and the markets is posted on the Media section of and obtain feedback on the Groups employees with regular access to inside our website.
These rules require those people meetings has been collated, and will be taken In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tintos to seek clearance before any proposed dealing into consideration ahead of the renewal of this website features information on corporate and place restrictions on when some people policy in 2018. governance, and general investor information.
Annual and half year results, as well as any During 2016, meetings with the investment major presentations, are webcast and the These rules also prohibit such persons from community focused on the issues of strategy, materials are available on our website.
engaging in hedging or other arrangements board succession, corporate governance, Presentation material from investor seminars which limit the economic risk in connection executive remuneration, and the operational is also made available on our website.
with Rio Tinto securities issued, or otherwise and financial performance of the Group.
allocated, as remuneration that are either Regular investor seminars provide a two-way Annual general meetings unvested, or that have vested, but remain communication opportunity with investors and The annual general meetings present an subject to a holding period.
Surveys of major shareholders opportunity to provide a summary business restrictions applying to a broader group of opinions are presented to the board by the presentation to inform shareholders of recent employees requiring them to seek clearance Groups investor relations advisers on a regular developments and to give them the before engaging in similar arrangements over basis.
Generally, the any Rio Tinto securities.
chairs of all board committees will be available Risk management and internal control to answer questions raised by shareholders Communication with stakeholders A description of the principal risks and and all directors are expected to attend, where Rio Tinto recognises the importance of uncertainties that could affect Rio Tinto and the possible.
In 2016, all of the directors attended effective and timely communication with Groups governance framework for risk the annual general meetings, save for shareholders and the wider investment management and internal control may be Anne Lauvergeon and Robert Brown who were community.
found under the Risk management, Principal unable to attend the Rio Tinto Limited annual risks and uncertainties and Sustainable To ensure that trading in its securities takes general meeting.
Rio Tintos external auditors, development headings within the Strategic place in an informed marketplace, Rio Tinto PwC, attend the annual general meetings and report on pages 24 to 30.
On an annual basis, has adopted procedures to ensure are available to answer questions about the the board conducts a robust assessment of Rio Tintos compliance with its continuous conduct of the external audit and the those principal risks, with the support of disclosure obligations.
preparation and content of the Independent management.
Any such questions received It is Rio Tintos policy to ensure that all public Theboard,  and answers provided ahead of the annual reports and other documents filed, disclosed or Committee, has completed the annual review general meetings are made available to released by the Group shall be accurate, of the Groups risk management and internal shareholders, who also have the opportunity complete and timely, and comply with the control system for the period 1 January 2016 to to meet informally with directors after relevant regulatory requirements, and all thedateofthisreport, andconcludedthat the meetings.
continuous and other disclosure obligations executive management has taken or is taking under applicable listing rules and other Transcripts of speeches made at the annual appropriate actions to remedy any failings or relevant legislation.
general meetings are available on the website, weaknesses identified through the operation of along with a summary of the proceedings at The Groups Disclosure Committee is our framework of controls.
This review included such meetings, and the results of voting on responsible for determining whether consideration of material financial, operational resolutions.
information relating to Rio Tinto may require and compliance controls.
disclosure to the markets under the continuous Investor engagement Two of the Groups management committees, disclosure requirements in the jurisdictions in Rio Tinto provides shareholders with the option the Executive Committee and the Disclosure which Rio Tinto is listed.
In accordance with its to receive communications from, and send Committee, regularly review reports related to terms of reference, the specific focus of the communications to, the Company and the the Groups control framework in order to Disclosure Committee is to consider and .
Thecontact satisfy the internal control requirements of the   Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards information would, to the extent that the page 252 and on our website.
 information is not public and relates directly or The main channels of communication with the 2002.
The Group Internal Audit function indirectlytoRioTinto, belikelytohavea investment community are through the performs reviews of the integrity and significant effect on the price of chairman, chief executive and chief financial effectiveness of control activities and provides Rio Tinto securities if that information was officer, who have regular meetings with the regular reports to the Audit Committee, generally available.
The senior Sustainability Committee and other  independent director has a specific management committees.
executive, chief financial officer, Group responsibility to be available to shareholders Each year, the leaders of the Groups company secretary, the acting chief legal who have concerns, and where contact with the businesses and functions complete a officer, the head of Investor Relations and the chairman, chief executive or chief financial representation letter confirming that adequate Group Corporate Relations director.
officer has failed to resolve their concerns, or internal controls are in place, are operating when such contact is inappropriate.
Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure unless effectively and are designed to capture and an exemption applies allowing a delay to the In his capacity as Remuneration Committee evaluate failings and weaknesses, if any exist, relevant listing authorities in accordance with chairman, the senior independent director also and that action is taken promptly, their rules of any information that a reasonable meets shareholders to discuss remuneration as appropriate.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control framework Operational risk Organisational Lines of defence structures and Financial risk Compliance risk Operations and Resource Services People HSEC and Security internal controls projects Oversight Board and its committees Third Internal audit Group Internal Audit Framework The way we work, operating model, delegation of authorities documents Chief executive Management Executive Committee committees Risk Management Committee Global Ore Reserves Closure Disclosure Plan Review Benefits Steering Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Investment Committee HQ & Central Growth & Human Finance, Ethics & Finance RTX Finance HSE Support Innovation Resources Integrity Speak-OUT Annual reporting suite certifications Executive committee & managing directors Internal Managing Regulatory Control over director & Insurance energy & Subsidiary entity Financial Competent critical risk greenhouse gas boards Reporting person assessments reporting Programme reporting Management Ore Reserves & assurance, Local statutory Mineral Regulatory HSE Annual integrity reporting, accounts Resources reporting certificates monitoring and Second reporting certifications Mandatory HSEC assurance compliance training Compliance reports and certification Group Acceptable Employment HSEC Governance Treasury use of Group policies Reserves & Asset Inclusion and Risk information & Group Tax HSEC and standards resources management diversity Management electronic management Project resources system Human Rights evaluation Business Procurement Closure integrity Security Data privacy Technical safety eg process safety and Antitrust underground External communications Iron Ore, Aluminium, Copper & Diamonds, Energy & Minerals, Growth & Innovation Line First management Group functions 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 65 Corporate governance continued Internal audit Management conducts extensive review and Disclosure controls and procedures challenge in support of the boards obligations  Group Internal Audit in this regard, seeking to ensure balance procedures as this term is defined in US Group Internal Audit is an internal function between positive and negative statement and Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e. Management, which provides independent and objective good linkages throughout the Annual report.
with the participation of the chief executive and assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness The directors were responsible for the chief financial officer, has evaluated the of the Groups systems for risk management preparation and approval of the Annual report effectiveness of the design and operation of the and internal control, together with for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Groups disclosure controls and procedures recommendations to improve the effectiveness pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of of the relevant systems and processes.
The They consider the Annual report, taken as a the end of the period covered by this report and function has an internal audit methodology whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, has concluded that these disclosure controls which is aligned with international auditing and that it provides the information necessary  standards set by the Institute of Internal for shareholders to assess the Companys assurance level.
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Managements report on internal control over The function operates independently of financial reporting management, under a mandate approved by The directors are responsible for maintaining Management is responsible for establishing the Audit Committee, and has full access to all proper accounting records, in accordance with and maintaining adequate internal control over functions, records, property and personnel of UK and Australian legislation.
The Companies internal the Group.
The head of Group Internal general responsibility for taking such steps as control over financial reporting is a process Audit administratively reports to the chief are reasonably open to them to safeguard the designed under the supervision of the chief executive and has direct communication lines assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect executive and chief financial officer to provide with the chairs of both the Audit Committee fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are reasonable assurance regarding the reliability and Sustainability Committee and regularly also responsible for ensuring that appropriate of financial reporting and the preparation and attends their meetings.
systems are in place to maintain and preserve fair presentation of the Groups published the integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation A risk-based approach is used to focus financial statements for external reporting in the UK governing the preparation and assurance activities on high-risk areas and purposes in accordance with International dissemination of financial statements may audit plans are presented annually to the Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by differ from current and future legislation in Audit Committee and Sustainability Committee the European Union IFRS.
The work carried out by the for approval.
external auditors does not involve The Groups internal control over financial In support of its internal audit function, Rio Tinto consideration of such developments and, reporting includes policies and procedures that utilises the services of external service providers.
accordingly, the external auditors accept no pertain to the maintenance of records that, in The function has a policy which addresses responsibility for any changes, should any be reasonable detail: conflicts of interest in relation to engagements of made, to the financial statements after they accurately and fairly reflect transactions the service provider that are requested by .
and dispositions of assets: management.
The policy complies with the IIAs The directors, senior executives, senior standards on independence.
Certain services are provide reasonable assurances that financial managers and other members of staff pre-approved under the policy as they are not in transactions are recorded as necessary to who are required to exercise judgment in the conflict with the internal auditors role.
There is a permit preparation of financial statements course of the preparation of the financial list of prohibited services which may not be in accordance with IFRS, and that receipts statements are required to conduct themselves undertaken without approval of the head of and expenditures are being made only in with integrity and honesty and in accordance Group Internal Audit, and guidance on the accordance with authorisations of with the ethical standards of their profession consideration of services which may give rise to a management and directors of each of the and the business, as are all other conflict of interest.
provide reasonable assurance regarding Financial reporting prevention or timely detection of The directors consider that the 2016 Annual Financial statements unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition report presents a true and fair view and has The directors are required to prepare financial of the Groups assets that could have a been prepared in accordance with applicable statements for each financial period which give material effect on its financial statements.
accounting standards, using the most a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tintos Group as at the end of the financial period, and Due to inherent limitations, internal control business, and supported by reasonable the profit or loss and cash flows for that period.
over financial reporting cannot provide judgments and estimates.
The accounting This includes preparing financial statements in absolute assurance, and may not prevent or policies have been consistently applied.
The accordance with UK company law which give a detect all misstatements whether caused by  true and fair view of the state of the Companys error or fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto from the chief executive and the chief financial affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
In accordance with the which includes the information required by There were no changes in the internal controls internal control requirements of the Code and Regulation11,  over financial reporting that occurred during the ASX Principles, this written statement Medium Sized Companies and Groups the period that have materially affected, or are confirms that the declarations in the statement Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as reasonably likely to materially affect, the are founded on a sound system of risk amended and the Australian Corporations internal controls over financial reporting of management and internal controls, and that Act 2001. each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
 In addition, the Code requires that the board material respects in relation to financial provides a fair, balanced and understandable reporting risks.
assessment of the Companys position and prospects in its external reporting.
