243514 RIT R&A pp024-pp042 27 02 2017 14:44 Page 24 Corporate Governance Report Introduction also comprise a majority of the Nominations Committee, The Directors present the Companys Corporate chaired by Lord Rothschild.
The structure of permanent Governance Report.
This describes its principal committees, together with the delegation of day-to-day governance bodies, their composition, purpose and management to the Executive Committee of JRCM led operation within the context of the Principles of the UK by its CEO, are considered by the Board as appropriate Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code of the UK for a self-managed investment trust and its shareholders Financial Reporting Council, which can be viewed at on an ongoing basis.
The Terms of Reference of each of www.
A new version of the Code was the permanent committees may be viewed at introduced in April 2016 and the revised provisions will www.
apply to the Company for the 2017 financial year.
This is As Chairman of the Board, Lord Rothschild is responsible not expected to have a material impact on the Company, for its leadership and its effectiveness in dealing with the and the Board will report on its implementation of those matters reserved for its decision with adequate time for new responsibilities in next years Annual Report.
This includes ensuring a culture of Leadership openness and debate and that Directors are properly The Company is headed by its Board of Directors the briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
He is also Board which is collectively responsible for setting the responsible for ensuring effective communication with Companys long-term strategic aims, and its ongoing shareholders, making Directors aware of any concerns business and investment strategies.
Its Schedule of raised by shareholders and for facilitating the contribution Reserved Matters may be viewed at www.
The day-to-day management of the business is delegated The Audit and Risk Committee to the Executive Committee of the Companys whollyThe Audit and Risk Committee Report is shown on owned subsidiary and manager, JRCM.
The Board currently comprises nine Directors, the The main features of the Companys internal controls and majority of which are determined by the Board to be risk management are described in the Audit and Risk independent.
The Board comprises six independent Committee Report on page 30 and in Principal Risks & non-executives, two non-independent and non-executive Viability on pages 15 to 18.
This balance is intended to limit the scope for an individual, or a small group of The Conflicts Committee individuals, to dominate the Boards decision making.
The Conflicts Committee meets at least once a year on a More than half of the Board comprises non-executive formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions as and Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Committee is chaired by The Duke of Wellington and is comprised of independent Directors.
Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an The Committees principal responsibilities cover the executive.
Although this is arguably at variance with the monitoring of arrangements with parties related to Lord Code, the Company has in place a structure of five Rothschild or any other Directors as described in permanent committees which are designed to devolve note 19, to ensure that any conflicts of interest are responsibility and control of certain key areas of Board avoided, or managed appropriately.
Such arrangements responsibility away from the Chairman.
Four of these include co-investments and related party transactions.
committees are comprised entirely of independent nonexecutive Directors.
Independent non-executive Directors The members of the five permanent Board committees are as follows: Audit and Risk Committee Conflicts Committee Nominations Committee John Cornish Chairman The Duke of Wellington Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman Mike Power John Cornish Michael Marks Amy Stirling Michael Marks The Duke of Wellington Mike Wilson Remuneration Committee Valuation Committee The Duke of Wellington Chairman John Cornish Chairman John Cornish Mike Power Michael Marks Amy Stirling Mike Wilson 24 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc 243514 RIT R&A pp024-pp042 27 02 2017 14:44 Page 25 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report The Nominations Committee In addition, both Michael Marks and John Cornish have The Nominations Committee comprises three Directors, served as Directors for more than nine years and their two of whom are independent non-executives and the independence was confirmed after very careful third is Lord Rothschild, the Chairman of the Committee.
consideration by the full Board and taking into account The Committee meets at least twice each year and on the following: additional occasions as required.
It is responsible for the Neither Michael Marks nor John Cornish have been process of the appointment of new Directors to the an employee of the Group: Board, and other matters set out in its Terms of Reference including overall Board composition, Michael Marks does not receive any remuneration succession planning, and the annual performance from the Group other than his fees as a Director: evaluation of the Board, its committees and the Directors.
John Cornish does not receive any remuneration from the Group other than his fees as a The Committee is mindful of Board balance and diversity, Director Trustee: and including gender, when considering appointments to the Board.
Neither open advertising nor external searchThere are no relationships or circumstances likely to consultancies have been used for non-executive Director affect the judgement of either Michael Marks or appointments, as the Board and Nominations Committee John Cornish, who both continue to challenge utilise their broad range of business contacts to identify objectively and robustly question management.
candidates on the basis of their potential contribution to During the year, the Committee discharged its the Company.
In accordance with the Code, the Committee considered The Remuneration Committee the proposed re-elections of John Cornish, Michael The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on Marks and The Duke of Wellington after rigorous reviews, pages 32 to 42. as they have served as Directors for more than six years.
The Valuation Committee The Valuation Committee comprises three Directors, all of whom are independent.
The Committee, chaired by John Cornish, meets at least twice each year and additionally as may be required.
Its principal responsibility is to review the Companys direct private and other investments to ensure that they are presented in the annual and half-yearly accounts at fair value.
Board and Committee Attendance The Board and Committee attendance of the Directors during the year is shown below.
In each case the number of meetings attended is shown first, followed by the number of meetings that the Director was eligible to attend as a member of the Board or Committee.
Board Audit & Risk Conflicts Nominations Remuneration Valuation Number of meetings held during the year 541232 Chairman Lord Rothschild 5 5 2 2 Non-executive Directors John Cornish 4 5 4 4 1 1 3 3 2 2 Jean Laurent-Bellue 5 5 Michael Marks 5 5 1 1 1 2 3 3 1 Lord Myners 2 2 Mike Power 5 5 4 4 2 2 Hannah Rothschild 4 5 Amy Stirling 5 5 4 4 2 2 The Duke of Wellington 5 5 1 1 2 2 3 3 Mike Wilson 4 5 4 4 3 3 1 Lord Myners retired as a Director on 21 April 2016.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 25 243514 RIT R&A pp024-pp042 27 02 2017 14:44 Page 26 Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness All Directors other than those who are retiring stand for Many of the Directors hold or have held senior positions re-election annually, subject of course to continued at prominent investment banks, asset management satisfactory performance.
Accordingly, neither the companies or audit firms specialising in the asset Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that it management industry.
In addition, there are Directors would be in the best interests of the Company for nonwith considerable experience beyond these areas, executive Directors to be appointed for specified terms.
including Government and general commercial The re-election of Directors at the forthcoming Annual organisations.
The biographies of the Directors and General Meeting is therefore recommended by the executive management on pages 20 to 23 demonstrate a Board.
strength of experience in the areas required to oversee Accountability and implement the Companys strategic, investment and The Board, acting where appropriate through the Audit operational aims.
and Risk Committee, is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take As described above, the process for the appointment of in achieving its strategic objectives.
It is also responsible new Directors to the Board is the responsibility of the for maintaining sound risk management and internal Nominations Committee, as is their induction and control systems, for setting corporate reporting, risk ensuring on an ongoing basis that each Director is able to management and internal control principles and for allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their maintaining an appropriate relationship with the responsibilities effectively.
These areas are further described in JRCM provided relevant and timely information on the the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 29 to 31. financial and regulatory developments during 2016 in the Relations with Shareholders papers provided for Board and Committee meetings, The Board ensures that an ongoing dialogue with including on the EU Market Abuse Regulation.
principal shareholders and analysts is maintained, based The Board annually undertakes a formal and rigorous on a mutual understanding of the Companys objectives.
evaluation of its performance, its committees and Questions from other shareholders are responded to individual Directors.
Following the external review by promptly.
Trust Associates in 2015, the 2016 annual performance JRCM reports to the Board on its shareholder and analyst evaluation was led by Michael Marks, the Senior meetings to ensure that the members of the Board Independent Director by means of an internally prepared understand the views of major shareholders about the questionnaire.
The summarised responses were Company.
evaluated and considered by the Board and separately by the non-executive Directors in a meeting without the All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual Chairman or executive management present.
Following General Meeting and ask questions of the Directors and such a review, all Directors performance was considered management.
The next external evaluation is scheduled for 2018.
26 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc 243514 RIT R&A pp024-pp042 27 02 2017 14:44 Page 27 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Code The Company has complied with all relevant provisions of the Code during the year, save as follows: Code provision Explanation The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should not As described on previous pages, the structure of Board be exercised by the same individual.
committees and the formal delegation of day-to-day management of the business to the Executive Committee of JRCM led by its CEO devolve executive responsibilities away from Lord Rothschild.
He retains membership of the Investment Committee of JRCM.
Non-executive Directors should be appointed for specified As all Directors stand for re-election annually, subject to terms.
continued satisfactory performance, neither the Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that it would be in the best interests of the Company for nonexecutive Directors to be appointed for specified terms.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain and Accounts, in accordance with applicable law and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable regulations.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group.
The records must enable Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Directors to ensure that the financial statements and the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company Companies Act 2006 as amended and, as regards the financial statements in accordance with International Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding European Union.
Under company law the Directors must the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for not approve the financial statements unless they are taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of of fraud and other irregularities.
affairs of the Group and the Company, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and financial statements, the Directors are required to: integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and select suitable accounting policies and then apply dissemination of financial statements may differ from them consistently: legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 27 243514 RIT R&A pp024-pp042 27 02 2017 14:44 Page 28 Corporate Governance Report The Directors consider that the Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and responsibilities are listed in the Corporate Governance Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report contains a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited 28 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc
