243514 RIT R&A pp024-pp042 27 02 2017 14:45 Page 29 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Audit and Risk Committee Report The Audit and Risk Committee I am pleased to present the Report of the Audit and Risk The most significant matters considered by the Committee for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Committee during the year included: The Committee has oversight responsibilities delegated UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 to it by the Board in three principal areas: financial The Committee reviewed the information and analysis reporting, risk management and the external audit.
The provided by the Manager to support the additional responsibilities are set out in more detail in the disclosures required to be made to shareholders in the Committees Terms of Reference, which may be viewed annual report as follows: at www.
The confirmation that the Directors have carried out Committee composition a robust assessment of principal risks, as described The Committee comprises four Directors, each of whom on pages 15 to 18: is non-executive and independent of the Company.
The The statement that the Board monitors risk Board is satisfied that I have requisite recent and relevant management and internal control systems, reviews financial experience to chair the Committee: I am a their effectiveness at least annually and reports on Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, a these in the annual report: former Partner at Deloitte LLP and also chair the audit committee of another public company.
The statement on Going Concern, shown on page 18: and The composition of the Committee has remained unchanged throughout the year.
The Viability Statement shown on page 18.
All of the three other members of the Committee at the The valuation of direct private investments and other year end have recent and relevant financial experience assets and two others are also Fellows of the Institute of Direct private investments comprise approximately 10% Chartered Accountants.
Their individual biographies are of net assets.
By their very nature such investments shown on pages 20 and 21. merit individual attention when considering their fair value.
The estimation of fair value requires the exercise Committee meetings and activity during the year of considerable judgement and most likely the use of a The Committee meets twice each year to review the range of valuation techniques.
This subjectivity means Groups half-yearly and annual financial statements.
The that there is a higher degree of uncertainty in such reviews include the assessment and assurance that the valuations compared with those of other assets.
reports, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for The Committee has considered the work of the Valuation shareholders to assess the Groups position and Committee and the results of the discussions of that performance, business model and strategy.
The committee with both the Manager and the external Committee also considers the year-end reports from the auditors.
We consider the work to be detailed, external auditors and discusses any matters arising with comprehensive and that the persons preparing the the Manager.
The adequacy of the Groups accounting reports have sufficient and appropriate expertise through policies and financial reporting procedures are discussed their experience and qualifications.
Furthermore we with the external auditor at least annually.
believe that the process is planned and managed so as to devote adequate time and resource to preparation and Two further meetings of the Committee are held each review by both the Manager and the members of the year to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk Valuation Committee.
management and internal controls, by reference to reports prepared by the Manager, its internal audit The Committee has also considered the work of the function and BNP Paribas Securities Services as Valuation Committee as it relates to other assets in the Depositary.
Here, the combination of detailed processes, rigorous analysis and where relevant external advice, has The Committee also reviews the Groups whistleblowing provided comfort over the entirety of the portfolio procedures for staff to follow in the event that they might valuations.
have any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The procedures in place provide for staff to have direct recourse to the Committee, through myself as Chairman.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 29 243514 RIT R&A pp024-pp042 27 02 2017 14:45 Page 30 Audit and Risk Committee Report Related Party Disclosures Related party transactions are a common feature of As part of the review of the control environment, an commerce and business.
The Group often takes internal audit of selected areas is undertaken.
This is advantage of opportunities offered to it, or services performed on an annual basis and follows a rolling provided to it via the many relationships it and its programme targeting key areas.
The precise scope and Directors has built up over time.
Disclosure of such depth of the remit is subject to ongoing review.
Where transactions is a legal requirement in order to allow required improvements are identified, timetables are shareholders and other users of the financial statements agreed for implementing these and progress is monitored to assess the risks and opportunities facing the Group.
Clear and direct reporting lines Any failure to properly address this requirement could between those conducting the reviews and the Chairman expose the Group to legal, regulatory or reputational risk.
of the Audit and Risk Committee have been established to maximise the independence of the function from We consider the work of the Conflicts Committee in JRCMs executive management.
reviewing cost-sharing arrangements, co-investment transactions and any other similar arrangements with JRCM also monitors the compliance of external parties related to any Director, and have discussed with managers with the terms of their investment the Manager the systems and processes in place to management arrangements as well as reviewing their identify, review, record and disclose such transactions.
We note the importance the Chairman and the Manager The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key place upon this.
We have reviewed the disclosures made systems of internal control in operation during the in the financial statements regarding such transactions financial year, and up to the date of this report, through and consider them to be the result of a process designed the Audit and Risk Committee.
During the course of the to ensure that not only are the transactions themselves reviews conducted, the Audit and Risk Committee has on appropriate terms but that the necessary disclosures not identified or been apprised of any failings or have been made.
weaknesses representing a significant business risk.
Internal Control The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups controls exercised over its financial and operating affairs.
system of internal control although it has delegated the Duties are segregated to an extent commensurate with supervision of the system to the Audit and Risk the size of the Groups organisation and business Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, environment.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only External Auditors reasonable and not absolute assurance against any The external auditors are  LLP material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to JRCM the implementation of During 2016 the Audit Quality Review team of the the system of internal control within an established Financial Reporting Council completed a review of the framework acceptable throughout the Group.
The system audit that PwC performed for the year ended of internal control is reviewed twice each year by the 31 December 2015.
This is a process designed to Committee, using a comprehensive report prepared by monitor the quality of audits and the procedures at audit management.
The report outlines principal risks and their firms.
Nothing of concern arose from the inspection and management covering all aspects of financial and the final report has been discussed with PwC.
The relative importance of each principal risk is assessed by reference to the possible impact on PwC attended the meeting of the Committee at which the Groups net asset value or share price should a loss the annual accounts were considered, and provided occur, alongside the likelihood of that loss occurring reports on their audit approach and work undertaken, the taking into consideration the current control environment.
quality and effectiveness of the Groups accounting records and their findings in connection with the Groups The Board considers that the procedures in place are annual statutory audit.
consistent with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business The Committee considers PwCs independence, Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process September 2014. with the benefit of formal and informal feedback from the Manager.
30 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc 243514 RIT R&A pp024-pp042 27 02 2017 14:45 Page 31 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Audit and Risk Committee Report Ensuring the Group has a high quality, effective and The level of non-audit services provided to the Group by independent external auditor is a key role of the Audit and the auditors is monitored, as is the auditors objectivity in Risk Committee.
We review the provision of our external providing such service, to ensure that the independence audit services annually and the Board, on the of the audit team from the Group is not compromised.
recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, has Non-audit services provided by PwC in 2016 totalled decided to put the contract out to tender in 2017 with a 64,000 split between audit-related assurance and view to appointing a new external auditor at the 2018 taxation services.
Their selection for this work was due to AGM.
PwC has been our auditor since listing in 1988 and their expertise in this area.
Further information on fees under new European audit reforms we will be required to paid to PwC is set out in note 5 to the financial replace them as our external auditor no later than 2020. statements.
Mindful of the fact that our current audit partner comes to the end of her five-year rotation at the 2018 AGM we, and PwC, have mutually agreed that they will not take part in the tender process, which will be overseen by the Committee.
John Cornish By running a competitive tender process over 2017 the Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee believes that the Company is best placed to select the most appropriate new auditor in terms of specific expertise, levels of service and value for money while allowing sufficient flexibility to manage the process so as to minimise the impact on the Groups activities and within my current tenure as Chair of this Committee.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 31
