REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Firth, operates within to monitor and consider annually whether there is a need clearly defined terms of reference, which are available from for the Company to have its own internal audit function: the Companys website www.
com, and include to keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1, internal controls, including financial controls and risk the AIC Code and the Corporate Governance Code.
Its other management systems: members are Mr Hayden, Mr Barker, Mrs Whittet and Mr Thompson.
Mr Thompson was formally appointed to the to review and consider the Corporate Governance Code, Audit Committee from 10 August 2016.
Members of the Audit the AIC Code, the GFSC Code, the AIC Guidance on Audit Committee must be independent of the Companys external Committees and the Stewardship Code: and auditor and Investment Manager.
The Audit Committee will to report to the Board on how it has discharged its meet no less than three times in a year, and at such other responsibilities.
times as the Audit Committee Chairman shall require, and will meet the external auditor at least once a year.
The Audit Committee is aware that several sections of the Annual Report are not subject to formal statutory audit, The varied backgrounds of the committees members, including the Chairmans Statement and the Investment and their collective skills, experience and knowledge of the Managers Report.
Financial information in these sections Company, allows them to fulfil the Committees remit and is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
to oversee the Companys auditors.
The Board has taken note of the requirement that at least one member of the The Audit Committee is required to report its findings Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers experience and is satisfied that the Audit Committee is that action or improvement is needed, and make properly constituted in that respect, with all members recommendations on the steps to be taken.
being highly experienced and in particular, one member The external auditor is invited to attend the Audit having a background as a chartered accountant.
Committee meetings at which the Annual Report and Interim Financial Report are considered and at which they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without Responsibilities representatives of the Investment Manager or Administrator The main duties of the Audit Committee are: being present at least once per year.
to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and regulatory announcements relating to its Financial Reporting financial performance and review significant financial reporting judgements: The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review with the Administrator, to report to the Board on the appropriateness of the Investment Manager and the external auditor and report Companys accounting policies and practices: to the Board on the appropriateness of the Annual Report to review the valuations of the Companys investments and Financial Statements and Interim Financial Report, prepared by the Investment Manager, and provide a concentrating on, amongst other matters: recommendation to the Board on the valuation of the the quality and acceptability of accounting policies Companys investments: and practices: to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with including agreeing their remuneration and terms of financial reporting standards and relevant financial engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and governance reporting requirements: and effectiveness, ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately material areas in which significant judgements have applied, and making recommendations to the Board on been applied or there has been discussion with the their appointment, reappointment or removal, for it to external auditor including going concern and viability put to the shareholders in general meeting: statement: REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Significant Areas of Judgement taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders Considered by the Audit Committee to assess the Companys performance, business model The Audit Committee has determined that a key risk and strategy: and of misstatement of the Companys Financial Statements any correspondence from regulators in relation to relates to the valuation of the investment in the Partnership our financial reporting.
at fair value through profit or loss, in the context of the judgements necessary to evaluate market values of the To aid its review, the Audit Committee considers reports Investment Undertakings of the Partnership.
from the Administrator and Investment Manager and also reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of their The Directors have considered whether any discount half-year review and annual audit.
The Audit Committee or premium should be applied to the net asset value of the supports Ernst and Young LLP in displaying the necessary Partnership.
In view of the Companys investment in the professional scepticism their role requires.
Partnership and the nature of the Partnerships assets, no adjustment to the net asset value of the Partnership has been made, as this is deemed equivalent to fair value.
Meetings The Audit Committee reviews, considers and, if thought During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Audit appropriate, recommends for the purposes of the Companys Committee met formally four times and maintained ongoing Financial Statements, valuations prepared by the Investment liaison and discussion between the external auditor and Manager in respect of the investments of the Partnership.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee with regards to the As outlined in Note 6 to the Financial Statements, the total audit approach and the identified risks.
The Audit Committee carrying value of the investment in the Partnership at fair value has met on two occasions since the year end through to through profit or loss at 31 December 2016 was $1,695 million the date of this report on 28 February 2017.
Market quotations are not discussed at those meetings include: available for this financial asset such that the value of the Companys investment is based on the value of the Companys review of the terms of reference of the audit committee limited partner capital account with the Partnership, which for approval by the Board: itself is based on the value of the Partnerships investments as review of the accounting policies and format of the determined by the Investment Manager, along with the cash Financial Statements: and fixed deposits held.
The valuation for each individual investment held by the Partnership is determined by review and approval of the audit plan of the external reference to common industry valuation techniques, including auditor: comparable public market valuation, comparable merger and discussion and approval of the fee for the external audit: acquisition transaction valuation, and discounted cash flow valuation, as detailed in the Investment Managers Report detailed review of the valuations of the Companys and Note 5 to the Financial Statements.
investment portfolio and recommendation for approval by the Board: The valuation process and methodology was discussed with the Investment Manager and with the external auditor detailed review of the Annual Report and Financial at an Audit Committee meeting held on 28 February 2017.
Statements, Interim Financial Report and quarterly The Investment Manager has carried out a valuation quarterly portfolio valuations, and recommendation for approval and provided a detailed valuation report to the Company by the Board: at each quarter.
assessment of the independence of the external auditor: The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment Managers assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit Report.
The Investment Manager confirmed to the Audit process as described below: and Committee that the external auditors work had not identified any errors or inconsistencies that were material in the context review of the Companys key risks and internal controls.
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements as a whole.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The external auditor explained the results of their review of External Audit the valuations, including their assessment of managements Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys external valuation of those Investment Undertakings remaining at 1.0x auditor since the Companys incorporation.
On the basis of their audit work, there were no fourth year of audit.
adjustments proposed that were material in the context of the Annual Report and Financial Statements as a whole.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner every five years.
The current partner is in his fourth The Audit Committee has reviewed going concern and has year of tenure.
There are no contractual obligations considered managements forecasts.
Following this review and a restricting the choice of external auditor and the Company discussion of the sensitivities, we confirmed that it continues to will put the audit services contract out to tender at least be appropriate to follow the going concern basis of accounting in every ten years in line with the FRCs suggestions on audit the financial statements.
Further detail on the basis of the going tendering for FTSE 350 companies.
This will be considered concern assessment by the Directors is set out on page 27. further when the audit partner rotates every five years.
For the Viability Statement, the Audit Committee Under Companies Law, the reappointment of the external endorsed the selection of a three year time horizon as a auditor is subject to Shareholder approval at the Annual basis for the statement and the approach to its development.
The Audit Committee will continue to Further detail on the assessment of viability and the viability monitor the performance of the external auditor on an statement are set out on page 27 and 28. annual basis and will consider their independence and objectivity, taking account of appropriate guidelines.
Risk Management The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and The Board is accountable for carrying out a robust assessment objectivity of the external auditor, with particular regard to of the principal risks facing the Company, including those the level of non-audit fees.
Notwithstanding such services threatening its business model, future performance, solvency the Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be and liquidity.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee independent of the Company and that the provision of such reviews the effectiveness of the Companys risk management non-audit services is not a threat to the objectivity and processes.
The Companys risk assessment process and the independence of the conduct of the audit.
way in which significant business risks are managed is a key area of focus for the Audit Committee.
The work of the Audit To further safeguard the objectivity and independence Committee was driven primarily by the Companys assessment of the external auditor from becoming compromised, the Audit of its principal risks and uncertainties as set out in the Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement Corporate Governance Report.
The Audit Committee receives of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
This reports from the Investment Manager and Administrator on precludes Ernst & Young LLP from providing certain services the Companys risk evaluation process and reviews changes such as valuation work or the provision of accounting services to significant risks identified.
and also sets a presumption that Ernst & Young LLP should only be engaged for non-audit services where Ernst & Young LLP are best placed to provide the non-audit service Internal Audit for example, the interim review and reporting accountant services.
Note 14 details services provided by Ernst & The Audit Committee shall consider at least once a year Young LLP.
whether or not there is a need for an internal audit function.
Currently, the Audit Committee does not consider there to To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence be a need for an internal audit function, given that there are of the external auditor, the Audit Committee considers: no employees in the Company and all outsourced functions discussions with or reports from the external auditor are with parties who have their own internal controls describing its arrangements to identify, report and and procedures.
manage any conflicts of interest: and the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the committee reviews: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from it: discussions or reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the course of the audit: and feedback from other service providers evaluating the performance of the audit team.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with Ernst & Young LLPs effectiveness and independence as external auditor having considered the degree of diligence and professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
Having carried out the review described above, and having satisfied itself that the external auditor remains independent and effective, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2017.
The Audit Committee has provided the Board with its recommendation to the Shareholders on the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2017.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as our external auditor will be put to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Audit Committee Patrick Firth Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 February 2017
