CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 All companies with a premium listing of equity shares For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK are required under the Listing Rules to report in the Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers that on how they have applied the Corporate Governance Code in the above provisions are not currently relevant to the position their Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Directors of the Company, being an externally managed investment recognise the importance of sound corporate governance, company, which delegates most day-to-day functions to particularly the requirements of the AIC Code.
The Company became a member of the AIC effective The Company does not have a chief executive or any 15 January 2014 and has therefore put in place arrangements executive directors.
The Company has not established a to comply with the AIC Code and, in accordance with the AIC separate remuneration committee as the Company has no Code, voluntarily complies with the Corporate Governance executive officers and the Board is satisfied that any relevant Code.
The Company is subject to the GFSC Code, which applies issues that arise can be properly considered by the Board.
to all companies registered as collective investment schemes The Company has no employees or internal operations in Guernsey.
and has therefore not reported further in respect of these The GFSC has also confirmed that companies that report provisions.
The need for an internal audit function is against the Corporate Governance Code or AIC Code are discussed in the Audit Committee report.
deemed to meet the GFSC Code.
The Board monitors developments in corporate The Board governance to ensure the Board remains aligned with best The Company is led and controlled by a Board of Directors, practice especially with respect to the increased focus which is collectively responsible for the long-term success on diversity.
The Board acknowledges the importance of of the Company.
It does so by creating and preserving value, diversity, including gender, for the effective functioning and has as its foremost principle acting in the interests of the Board and commits to supporting diversity in the of shareholders.
It is the Boards ongoing aspiration to have a well diversified representation.
The Board also values The Company believes that the composition of the Board diversity of business skills and experience because Directors is a fundamental driver of its success as the Board must with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained provide strong and effective leadership of the Company.
from different geographical backgrounds enhance the Board The current Board was selected, as their biographies by bringing a wide range of perspectives to the Company.
illustrate, to bring a breadth of knowledge, skills and business experience to the Company.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Corporate The Board consists of eight Non-executive Directors Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles 31 December 2015: eight, five of whom, including the and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance Chairman, are independent of the Companys Investment to investment companies such as the Company.
The Board Manager: Mr Hayden, Mr Firth, Mr Barker, Mrs Whittet considers that reporting against the principles and and Mr Thompson 31 December 2015: five.
Mr Lapeyre, recommendations of the AIC Code, by reference to the Mr Leuschen, and Mr Ryan are not considered independent AIC Guide, provides better information to Shareholders.
because of their nomination for appointment to the Board by the Investment Manager, pursuant to a right set out in the The AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on the Investment Management Agreement.
All Directors served AICs website, www.
The Corporate Governance throughout the year, save for Mr. Thompson and Mr. Ryan Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils who were appointed as a Non-executive Independent website, www.
Director and a Non-executive Director, respectively, at the The Company has complied with the recommendations AGM on 19 May 2016.
In addition, Sir Robert Wilson and of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the Corporate Mr Hackett served as a Non-executive Independent Governance Code, except as set out below.
Director and Non-executive Director, respectively, until the Companys AGM on 19 May 2016 at which point they did The Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: not seek re-election.
the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The Chairman of the Board is independent and is Board Tenure and Re-election appointed in accordance with the Companys Articles of No member of the Board has served for longer than eight Incorporation.
Mr Hayden is considered to be independent years to date.
As such no issue has arisen to be considered because he: by the Board with respect to long tenure.
In accordance with has no current or historical employment with the the AIC Code, when and if any director shall have been in Investment Manager: office or on re-election would at the end of that term of office for more than nine years the Company will consider has no current directorships or partnerships in any further whether there is a risk that such a director might other investment funds managed by the Investment reasonably be deemed to have lost independence through Manager: and such long service.
is not an executive of a self-managed company or A Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting an ex-employee who has left the executive team of may, if willing to continue to act, be elected or re-elected a self-managed company within the last five years.
If, at a general meeting at which a Director New Directors receive an induction from the Investment retires, the Company neither re-elects that Director nor Manager and all Directors receive other relevant training appoints another person to the Board in the place of that as necessary.
Director, the retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been re-elected unless at the general At each subsequent Annual General Meeting of the meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or unless a Company, each of the Directors at the date of the notice resolution for the re-election of the Director is put to the convening the Annual General Meeting shall retire from meeting and not passed.
office and may offer themselves for election or re-election by the Shareholders.
Directors are appointed under letters of appointment, copies of which are available at the registered office of The Board meets at least four times a year for regular, the Company.
The Board considers its composition and scheduled meetings and should the nature of the activity succession planning on an ongoing basis.
of the Company require it, additional meetings may be held, some at short notice.
At each meeting the Board follows a Following discussion, it is the opinion of the Management formal agenda that covers the business to be discussed.
Engagement Committee that the performance of the The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of Investment Manager for the year ended 31 December 2016 investment performance and associated matters such as was satisfactory and the continuing appointment of the asset allocation, share price discount premium management, Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests investor relations, peer group information, gearing, industry of the Shareholders as a whole.
The Board consider the issues and principal risks and uncertainties in particular performance of the Investment Manager, based on selection those identified at the end of this report.
of high quality E&P and midstream investments and comparative resilience in weak markets, to be satisfactory.
Between meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Manager and the Administrator, and the Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information Directors Remuneration by the Investment Manager, the Company Secretary and other advisers in a form and of a quality to enable it to The level of remuneration of the Non-executive Directors discharge its duties.
reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of their roles.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors does The Company has adopted a share dealing code for the not include any share options or other performance related Board and will seek to ensure compliance by the Board and elements and there are no plans to seek any Shareholder relevant personnel of the Investment Manager and other waivers to deviate from this.
third party service providers with the terms of the share dealing code.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The Chairman is entitled to annual remuneration of Duties and Responsibilities 120,000 31 December 2015: 120,000.
The Chairman of The Board is responsible to Shareholders for the overall the Management Engagement Committee is entitled to management of the Company.
The duties and powers annual remuneration of 65,000 31 December 2015: reserved for the Board include decisions relating to the 60,000 and the Chairman of the Audit Committee is determination of investment policy and approval of entitled to annual remuneration of 75,000 31 December investments in certain instances, strategy, capital raising, 2015: 60,000.
The other independent Directors are entitled statutory obligations and public disclosure, financial reporting to annual remuneration of 60,000 31 December 2015: and entering into any material contracts by the Company.
The three non-independent Directors have chosen not to be remunerated by the Company for their services.
The Board has overall responsibility for maximising the Companys success by directing and supervising the During the year ended 31 December 2016 and affairs of the business and meeting the appropriate interests 31 December 2015, the Directors remuneration was of Shareholders and relevant stakeholders, while enhancing as follows: the value of the Company and also ensuring the protection 2016 2015 of investors.
A summary of the Boards responsibilities $000 $000 is as follows: 1 Peter Barker 79 88 statutory obligations and public disclosure: 1 2 Patrick Firth 91 88 1 3 Richard Hayden 126 88 strategic matters and financial reporting: Pierre Lapeyre risk assessment and management including reporting, David Leuschen 4 compliance, governance, monitoring and control: and Ken Ryan 1 4 Jeremy Thompson 47 other matters having a material effect on the Company.
1 5 Claire Whittet 83 56 6 The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Sir Robert Wilson 65 177 6 Administrator, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring James Hackett 7 that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with Dr Tidu Maini 32 Companies Law and applicable rules and regulations of the GFSC and the LSE.
Where necessary, in carrying out their 1 Non-executive Independent Director duties, the Directors may seek independent professional advice 2 Senior Independent Director appointed on 19 May 2016 and and services at the expense of the Company.
The Company Chairman of the Audit Committee appointed on 19 May 2016 maintains directors and officers liability insurance in respect 3 of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis.
Chairman of the Company appointed on 19 May 2016 4 Appointed to the Board on 19 May 2016 The Boards responsibilities for the Annual Report are 5 set out in the Directors Responsibility Statement.
The Board Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee appointed is also responsible for issuing appropriate half-yearly on 19 May 2016 financial reports, quarterly portfolio valuations and other 6 Stepped down from his duties on the Board on 19 May 2016 price-sensitive public reports.
7 Stepped down from his duties on the Board on 13 May 2015 The above fees due to the Directors are for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, and none were outstanding at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: $Nil.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors attendance at Board and Committee Meetings: One of the key criteria the Company uses when selecting Non-executive Directors is their confirmation prior to their appointment that they will be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities in a timely and effective manner.
The Board formally met four times during the year and the other Board committee meetings were called in relation to specific events or to issue approvals, often at short notice and did not necessarily require full attendance.
The Chairman meets privately with the independent Non-executive Directors before each scheduled Board meeting.
Directors are encouraged when they are unable to attend a meeting to give the Chairman their views and comments on matters to be discussed, in advance.
In addition to their meeting commitments, the Non-executive Directors also make themselves available to management whenever required and there is regular contact outside the Board meeting schedule.
Attendance is further set out below: Management Scheduled Audit Nomination Engagement Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director max 4 max 4 max 2 max 2 max 6 1 Peter Barker 4 4 1 2 n a 1 2 Patrick Firth 4 4 2 2 6 1 4 Richard Hayden 4 4 n a 1 n a Pierre Lapeyre 4 n a n a n a n a David Leuschen 4 n a n a n a n a 1 Claire Whittet 4 4 2 2 6 3 Ken Ryan 3 n a n a n a n a 1 3 5 Jeremy Thompson 3 2 n a 15 6 Sir Robert Wilson 2 n a 11 n a 6 James Hackett 1 n a n a n a n a 1 5 Non-executive Independent Director Mr Thompson was appointed to the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Management Engagement Committee from 2 Non-executive Senior Independent Director 10 August 2016, at which point two Audit Committee Meetings, 3 two Nomination Committee Meetings, one Management Mr Ryan and Mr Thompson were appointed to the Board from Engagement Committee Meeting and one Board Committee 19 May 2016, at which point one Board Meeting had already Meeting had already taken place taken place 6 4 Stepped down from his duties on the Board on 19 May 2016 Mr Hayden was appointed as Chairman of the Nomination Committee from 19 May 2016 at which point two Nomination Committee Meetings had already taken place A quorum is comprised of any two or more members of the Board from time to time, to perform administrative and other routine functions on behalf of the Board, subject to such limitations as the Board may expressly impose on this committee from time to time.
All committee members are provided with Committees of the Board appropriate induction on joining their respective committees, The Board believes that it and its committees have an as well as on-going access to training.
Minutes of all appropriate composition and blend of backgrounds, skills meetings of the committees save for the private sessions and experience to discharge their duties effectively.
No one of committee members at the end of meetings are made individual or small group dominates decision-making.
available to all Directors and feedback from each of the The Board keeps its membership, and that of its committees, committees is provided to the Board by the respective under review to ensure that an acceptable balance is committee Chairmen at the next Board meeting.
The maintained, and that the collective skills and experience Chairman of each committee attends the AGM to answer of its members continue to be refreshed.
It is satisfied that any questions on their committees activities.
all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles The Board and its committees are supplied with regular, and that undue reliance is not placed on any individual.
comprehensive and timely information in a form and Each committee of the Board has written terms of of a quality that enables them to discharge their duties reference, approved by the Board, summarising its objectives, effectively.
All Directors are able to make further enquiries remit and powers, which are available on the Companys of management whenever necessary, and have access to website www.
com and reviewed on an the services of the Company Secretary.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The Board also believes that diversity of experience and Audit Committee approach, including gender diversity, amongst Board members The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Firth and comprises is of great importance and it is the Companys policy to give Mr Barker, Mr Hayden and Mrs Whittet, who held office careful consideration to issues of Board balance and diversity throughout the year, as well as Mr Thompson, who was when making new appointments.
appointed to the Audit Committee on 10 August 2016, following his election to the Board at the AGM on 19 May 2016.
The Board is satisfied with the current composition and The Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Investment functioning of its members.
When appointing Board members, Manager and the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, have its priority is based on merit, but will be influenced by the held discussions regarding the audit approach and identified strong desire to maintain board diversity, including gender.
The external auditors attend Audit Committee meetings All Directors are subject to annual re-election by and a private meeting is routinely held with the external Shareholders at the AGM.
auditors to afford them the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
The Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee activities are contained in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 39 to 42.
The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Mrs Whittet and comprises Mr Hayden, Mr Barker, Nomination Committee and Mr Firth, who held office throughout the year, as well as Mr Thompson, who was appointed to the Management The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Hayden and Engagement Committee on 10 August 2016, following his comprises Mr Barker, Mr Firth, and Mrs Whittet, who held election to the Board at the AGM on 19 May 2016.
The office throughout the year, as well as Mr Thompson, who was Management Engagement Committee meets at least once appointed to the Nomination Committee on 10 August 2016, a year pursuant to its terms of reference.
following his election to the Board at the AGM on 19 May 2016.
At a Board meeting on 19 May 2016, the Nomination The Management Engagement Committee provides Committee recommended to the Board that Mr. Thompson be a formal mechanism for the review of the performance of added as an additional Director to the Board, which the Board the Investment Manager and the Companys other advisors approved.
In advance of making their proposal, the Nomination and service providers.
It carries out this review through Committee, which utilises the Directors existing network consideration of a number of objective and subjective criteria rather than an external search consultancy or open advertising, and through a review of the terms and conditions of the presented the two most suitable candidates to the Chairman of advisors appointments with the aim of evaluating the Board for an interview.
The Nomination Committee had performance, identifying any weaknesses and ensuring confirmed to the Board that the proposed candidates were value for money for the Shareholders.
independent, resident in Guernsey, and had relevant experience with listed businesses, similar in both size and composition Board Performance and Evaluation to the Company.
The Chairman advised that following the In accordance with Principle 7 of the AIC Code which requires interview process, candidates on the short list had met with a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its performance, the Directors either in person or had spoken with them on the Board formally reviews its performance annually through the telephone.
Internal evaluation of the Board, the Audit The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Management pursuant to its terms of reference and met on 28 February Engagement Committee and individual Directors has taken 2017.
The Nomination Committee is convened for the purpose the form of self-appraisal questionnaires and discussions of considering the appointment of additional Directors as and to determine effectiveness and performance in various areas when considered appropriate.
In considering appointments to as well as the Directors continued independence.
the Board, the Nomination Committee takes into account the The Board believes that annual evaluations are ongoing requirements of the Company and evaluates the helpful and provide a valuable opportunity for continuous balance of skills, experience, independence, and knowledge improvement.
In 2016, an  review of of each candidate.
Appointments are therefore made on the Board, its Committees and individual Directors including personal merit and against objective criteria.
In the case of the Chairman was undertaken.
The Board evaluation was candidates for Non-executive Directorships, care is taken to facilitated by Optimus Group Limited.
The 2016 Board ascertain that they have sufficient time to fulfil their Board effectiveness review took the form of a structured and, where relevant, committee responsibilities.
The Board questionnaire which covered a range of key topics including believes that the terms of reference of the Nomination composition, skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, Committee ensure that it operates in a rigorous and transparent the respective roles and responsibilities of the Non-executive manner.
The Board believes that, as a whole, it comprises and Executive Directors, quality of strategic and risk debate, an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge.
the effectiveness of decision making and interactions with management together with one to one discussions between Optimus and each of the Directors, including the Chairman.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 All Directors participated in the evaluation, and the findings the Administrator provides administration and company were collectively considered by the Board.
No significant secretarial services to the Company.
The Administrator areas of weaknesses were highlighted during the evaluation maintains a system of internal control on which they and the Board concluded that it had operated effectively report to the Board: and throughout 2016 and the Board is confident in its ability to the Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit continue effectively to lead the Company and oversee its function and has decided that the systems and procedures affairs.
The Board believes that the current mix of skills, employed by the Administrator and Investment Manager, experience, knowledge and age of the Directors is including their own internal controls and procedures, appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
provide sufficient assurance that an appropriate level of New Directors receive an induction on joining the Board risk management and internal control, which safeguards and regularly meet with the senior management employed Shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is by the Investment Manager both formally and informally maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the to ensure that the Board remains regularly updated Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
All members of the Board are members Internal controls over financial reporting are designed to of professional bodies and serve on other Boards, which provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of ensures they are kept abreast of the latest technical financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements developments in their areas of expertise.
The Administrator and The Board arranges for presentations from the Investment Investment Manager both operate risk controlled frameworks Manager, the Companys brokers and other advisors on on a continual ongoing basis within a regulated environment.
matters relevant to the Companys business.
The Board The Administrator has undertaken an ISAE 3402: Assurance assesses the training needs of Directors on an annual basis.
Reports on Controls at a Service Organisation audit and formally reports to the Board quarterly through a compliance report.
The Investment Manager formally reports to the Internal Control and Financial Board quarterly including updates within Riverstone and also engages with the Board on an ad-hoc basis as required.
Reporting No weaknesses or failings within the Administrator or Investment Manager have been identified.
The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Companys system of The systems of control referred to above are designed to internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal ensure effectiveness and efficient operation, internal control control systems are designed to manage rather than and compliance with laws and regulations.
In establishing the eliminate the failure to achieve business objectives and can systems of internal control, regard is paid to the materiality only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against of relevant risks, the likelihood of costs being incurred and material misstatements or loss.
The Directors carry out a costs of control.
It follows therefore that the systems of robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute including those that would threaten its business model, future assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures which have been established to provide internal control are that: Investment Management Agreement the Board has delegated the day-to-day operations of the Company to the Administrator and Investment The Investment Manager has been appointed as the sole Manager: however, it retains accountability for all investment manager of the Company and the Partnership.
functions it delegates: Pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement, the Investment Manager has responsibility for and discretion the Board clearly defines the duties and responsibilities over investing and managing the Companys and the of the Companys agents and advisors and appointments Partnerships direct and indirect assets, subject to and are made by the Board after due and careful consideration.
in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
The The Board monitors the ongoing performance of such Investment Manager is entitled to delegate all or part of agents and advisors and will continue to do so through its functions under the Investment Management Agreement the Management Engagement Committee: to one or more of its affiliates.
the Board monitors the actions of the Investment The Company has delegated the provision of all services Manager at regular Board meetings and is given to external service providers whose work is overseen by frequent updates on developments arising from the the Management Engagement Committee at its regular operations and strategic direction of the underlying scheduled meetings.
Each year a detailed review of investee companies: performance pursuant to their terms of engagement is undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 In accordance with Listing Rule 15.6.
2 2 R and having Whistleblowing formally appraised the performance and resources of the The Board has considered the AIC Code recommendations Investment Manager, in the opinion of the Directors the in respect of arrangements by which staff of the Investment continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on the Manager or Administrator may, in confidence, raise concerns terms agreed is in the interests of the Shareholders as within their respective organisations about possible a whole.
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
It has concluded that adequate arrangements are Relations with Shareholders in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and, where necessary, for appropriate The Board welcomes Shareholders views and places great follow-up action to be taken within their organisation.
importance on communication with its Shareholders.
The Companys AGM provides a forum for Shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors of the Company.
The Principal Risks and Uncertainties Chairman is available to meet with Shareholders at the The Companys assets consist of investments, through the AGM to hear their views and discuss any issues or concerns, Partnership, within the global energy sector, with a particular including in relation to board composition, governance and focus on opportunities in the global exploration and strategy, or at other times, if required.
In addition, Mr. Firth, production and midstream energy sub-sectors.
Its principal as the Senior Independent Director, is also available to risks are therefore related to market conditions in the energy shareholders if they have concerns which contact through sector in general, but also the particular circumstances the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such of the businesses in which it is invested through the contact would be inappropriate.
The Investment Manager to the Partnership Independent Director and other Directors are also available seeks to mitigate these risks through active asset to meet with Shareholders at other times, if required.
management initiatives and carrying out due diligence work The Company reports formally to Shareholders in a on potential targets before entering into any investments.
number of ways: regulatory news announcements are issued Each Director is fully aware of the risks inherent in in response to events or routine reporting obligations, the Companys business and understands the importance of an Interim Report is published in August each year, outlining identifying, evaluating and monitoring these risks.
The Board performance to 30 June, which is made available on the has adopted procedures and controls that enable it to carry Companys website: the Annual Report is published in out a robust assessment of the risks facing the Company, February each year, for the year ended 31 December, which manage these risks within acceptable limits and to meet is made available on the Companys website.
In addition, all of its legal and regulatory obligations.
com contains comprehensive information, including company notifications, The Board thoroughly considers the process for share information, financial reports, investment objectives identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks and policy, investor contacts and information on the Board faced by the Company on an ongoing basis and these risks and corporate governance.
are reported and discussed at Board meetings.
It ensures that effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks The Investment Manager has regular contact with and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure Shareholders, in particular the Cornerstone Investors, all applicable local and international laws and regulations and any views that they may have are communicated to the are upheld.
No sensitive information is provided to the Cornerstone Investors that is not provided to the For each material risk, the likelihood and consequence Shareholders as a whole and at the same time.
The Board is are identified, management controls and frequency of also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary monitoring are confirmed and results reported and on the Company by the Investment Manager and the discussed at the quarterly Board meetings.
The Companys principal risk factors are fully discussed in the Prospectuses, available on the Companys website www.
com and should be reviewed by Shareholders.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The key areas of risk faced by the Company are The recent regulatory proposals require SIFIs, summarised below: specifically large banks, to hold sufficient capital as a buffer against trading losses, or CAR CRAR.
The Company intends to only invest in the global energy commodities are more volatile risky in the current sector, with a particular focus on oil and gas exploration market, it could strip large banks particularly and production, and midstream investments, which will Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley of commodity expose it to concentration risk.
trading operations to alleviate the capital required to 2.
The Ordinary Shares may trade at a discount to NAV maintain their CAR CRAR.
This could in turn impact the commodity prices and therefore the value of per Share for reasons including but not limited to: market conditions, liquidity concerns and actual or expected RELs portfolio companies.
As such, there can be no guarantee RELs portfolio companies operate in a hazardous that attempts to mitigate such discount will be successful industry, which is highly regulated by safety and or that the use of discount control mechanisms will be health laws.
Failure to provide a safe working possible, advisable or adopted by the Company.
environment may result in harm to employees and local communities.
Investments in the exploration and production and closure of facilities or refuse future drilling midstream sectors of the global energy sector involve right applications.
These inherent risks associated with investments in the global The countries in which the Company invests may energy sector could result in a material adverse effect on the be exposed to geopolitical risks.
Companys performance and the value of Ordinary Shares.
The change in the price of oil could adversely affect The above key risks are mitigated and managed by the the investment valuations through the public market trading and transaction comparables, the discounted Board through continual review, policy setting and updating of the Companys risk matrix at each Audit Committee cash flow rates, and potentially limit exit opportunities.
Meeting to ensure that procedures are in place with the A change in interest rates could adversely affect intention of minimising the impact of the above mentioned efficient access to debt as a source of capital for risks.
The Board relies on periodic reports provided by the both portfolio investments and potential buyers Investment Manager and Administrator regarding risks that of portfolio investments.
When required, experts will be employed to gather information, including tax advisors, legal advisors, The regulatory and tax environment of the Companys and environmental advisors.
target investments is potentially subject to change, which may adversely affect the value or liquidity of The Companys financial instrument risks are discussed investments held by the Company or its ability to in Note 11 to the Financial Statements.
By order of the Board The Company will be exposed to increased risk by investing in build-up and early-stage investments that have little or no operating history and are comparably more vulnerable to financial failure than more established companies.
The investor should be aware there can be no assurance that losses generated by Richard Hayden these types of entities will be offset by gains if any realised on the Companys other investments.
Chairman 28 February 2017 An investments requirements for additional capital may require the Company to invest more capital than it had originally planned or result in the dilution of the Companys investment or a decrease in the value of that investment.
The Company may not have sufficient dry powder to participate in all investment opportunities presented.
