72 DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Ruth Cairnie Remuneration Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committee report Policy drivers The performance measures are proposed to Highlights Four key themes have emerged to underpin be unchanged for both annual bonus and our policy design: supporting transformation, LTIP, but with careful consideration having New remuneration policy.
being given to the weightings of the LTIP components and a primary focus on growth We focused on the linkage to successful Outturns for 2016. in free cash flow.
delivery of the transformation agenda which is closely matched to shareholder Cash flow targets will be based on Terms of appointment for interests.
cumulative cash flow per share CPS as Chief Financial Officer.
now: earnings per share EPS targets will be We also needed to address the set on cumulative EPS over the three-year competitiveness of our current rewards.
performance period: total shareholder Through 2016, we have sought to recruit return TSR will be measured relative to the into a number of senior positions to constituents of the FTSE 100 as now, as well 2016 overview strengthen skills in some areas, or to as the S&P Global Industrials Index.
support an overall raising of our This approach better reflects our status leadership capability to deliver the Introduction as a FTSE 100 company and a global transformation, bringing in experience engineering group.
In this we have I am pleased to present my first report as encountered real evidence of our rewards chairman of the Remuneration Committee The maximum level of LTIP award is not being sufficiently competitive describing what we have done in the proposed to be increased to 250% of salary to secure some key talent that would year and how we have reviewed our for the Chief Executive and 225% for other make a strong contribution to Rolls-Royce.
Executive Directors, to enhance our ability to attract and retain the talent we need in We have continued to focus on aligning competitive markets.
We also seek the interests of Executive Directors and Policy review headroom up to 300% for the Chief shareholders.
Much of the Committees activity in 2016 Executive and 250% for other Executive We have also looked for opportunities has focused on reviewing our policy.
Directors if this should be necessary for to simplify our reward structure, and future recruitment.
We have no other to ensure a coherent framework that Business context intention to use this headroom.
Our current can be cascaded to lower levels in the The Group is at a critical stage in undergoing discretion to award a higher level of annual organisation.
a major transition of the business including bonus on recruitment will be removed.
a ramp-up in delivery of new Trent engines, Proposed changes Shares received upon the vesting of LTIP the associated modernisation of the The overall structure will be unchanged, awards, following the three-year manufacturing footprint and the farcomprising base salary, benefits, annual performance period, will be subject to a reaching organisational transformation bonus and a new long-term incentive plan two-year holding period.
This approach that is underway.
This reflects our continued focus on further aligns incentives with long-term Whilst the transition has an expected pay for performance.
short-term negative impact on profit, A number of simplifications are proposed The level of LTIP vesting for threshold performance will improve through in the structure of both annual bonus and performance will be reduced from 30% successful delivery of our transformation LTIP, replacing multiplicative structures, to 20% of the maximum.
programme driving cost reduction and hurdles and kickers with simpler improving operational execution, and additive components.
through achieving the increase in rate of engine delivery.
This underpins our investment case and remuneration should be strongly linked to delivering this programme over the coming years.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT 73 Shareholder engagement nature of our businesses, differing sources 2016 outturns We have consulted extensively with major of R&D funding and their long investment shareholders throughout the policy review.
Some shareholders were ambivalent We have given careful consideration to Early in the year several shareholders about inclusion of relative TSR, however we both the reported numbers and the external expressed concerns about retention and wanted to maintain a portion linked to the context in determining the bonus outturns motivation given our more limited incentive in-period value delivered to shareholders.
We continued to discuss our thinking Our shareholders also recognised the Group underlying profit and cash flow, our with shareholders as we developed our policy significant changes to EPS, as we transition key financial metrics, were both above the during the year.
The majority of shareholders to reporting under IFRS 15, but understood target levels and therefore a bonus will be who participated in this process: the approach we propose to take.
paid for the first time in three years.
Recognised the level of challenge in Underlying profit is a key measure of delivering the transformation and our Agreements with investigating performance and as such does not include need to attract top class talent.
authorities the accounting impacts of non-operational Supported the simplified remuneration factors.
In particular it excludes our US As announced on 17 January 2017, structures.
dollar hedge book valuation adjustment, agreements were entered into between which is a non-cash consequence of Rolls-Royce and the UK Serious Fraud Office Welcomed the inclusion of a holding managing our foreign exchange risk, SFO, US Department of Justice DoJ and period and reduced threshold vesting for and is larger this year due to the postBrazilian Federal Prosecution Service MPF.
These agreements relate to bribery and Strongly supported cash as the most corruption involving intermediaries in a important measure.
In assessing the achievement of bonus number of overseas markets from January targets, the Committee made overall Supported an increase in the LTIP 1989 to November 2013 and will result in downwards adjustments to both profit maximum award in the context of penalties totalling 671m over the next and cash flow elements.
Adjustments were delivering our transformation.
The agreements that have been made to remove gains from unbudgeted reached relate to legacy behaviour, and, Some shareholders favoured a more foreign exchange movements and cash Lord Justice Leveson, made clear in his highly-geared approach to remuneration, receipts as well as restructuring payments.
judgment, no current member of the with significantly higher incentive Following these adjustments the Committee Board was involved.
As set out in his opportunities.
Other shareholders, while also reviewed the bonus outturn in the judgment, the new executive team supportive of an increase, were mindful, round, taking into account the Companys demonstrated extraordinary co-operation as are we, of the increasing attention to high performance and the shareholder context.
and has made essential changes, creating levels of executive pay and concerns about 2016 was a solid year in which we exceeded new policies, practices and cultures.
On balance, we have opted for an cash and profit expectations and our operational LTIP maximum that, while a As a Committee we have considered transformation programme is off to significant increase, was not as high as remuneration consequences for individuals a good start.
However, reflecting the overall some of our shareholders suggested.
who were in office at the time.
Our clawback experience of our shareholders, in a year A small number of shareholders suggested provisions were introduced in 2014, which when underlying profits have fallen, the a fundamentally different approach to was after the relevant period of these Committee agreed with the management remuneration with higher salaries and events.
In cases where employees have been and Board that it would be appropriate for lower leverage based on performance.
dismissed or resigned as a result of the business element of the executive However, at this time our strong preference Rolls-Royces own internal investigation, teams bonuses to be reduced to is to link reward firmly with performance shares and incentives have been cancelled target levels.
and the delivery of our transformation in full as a consequence of the termination programme.
The 2014 performance share plan PSP awards will not vest as the performance We also consulted widely with shareholders Because the SFO, DoJ and MPF agreements conditions were not met over the three-year on LTIP performance measures.
We received relate to legacy matters, and given that the performance period to 31 December 2016. a very strong message that cash flow was legal judgment was very clear that there the most important performance measure.
was no culpability in relation to existing Several shareholders asked us to consider management, the Committee has concluded a long-term return measure in the mix.
that the impact of the penalties should be On reflection, we were of the view that this excluded from the 2016 bonus and from would be too opaque as a Group-level future incentive targets.
incentive metric given the very diverse 74 DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Board changes Principal responsibilities In September 2016, we announced that The key areas of responsibility of the David Smith would leave Rolls-Royce after Committee are: two years as Chief Financial Officer and will To set and monitor the strategy and policy be succeeded by Stephen Daintith.
Stephen is for the remuneration of the Executive expected to take up the role in Spring 2017.
Directors, the Chairman and members Colin Smith will also be stepping down from of the Executive Leadership Team ELT.
the Board at the 2017 AGM, after 43 years To determine the design, conditions with Rolls-Royce.
and coverage of annual and long-term The Committee considered appropriate incentive plans for senior executives terms for David and Colin on their and approve total and individual departure.
Their remaining contractual payments under the plans.
entitlements will be subject to phasing and To determine targets for any mitigation.
PSP awards will be pro-rated for performance-related pay plans.
service and will vest at the normal time, To determine the issue and terms of depending on achievement against the all share-based plans available to all relevant performance targets.
awards have lapsed as the targets were not met and 2015 awards, for all participants, To oversee any major changes in are not expected to vest either.
participate in incentive schemes for 2017.
The Committee also considered the Resolutions remuneration package for Stephen on his At our AGM in 2017 we will be asking appointment, and believe his package is shareholders to pass resolutions to approve: appropriate for the role and for someone of his experience and capabilities.
We will also Our new Directors remuneration policy.
make some buyout awards in respect of his Our Directors remuneration report forfeited awards, retaining performance which sets out how we have applied our conditions where relevant and matching or existing policy during 2016. exceeding time horizons.
Our new LTIP to accommodate the new remuneration policy.
2017 salary review I would like to thank the shareholders who The Committee has reviewed the salary levels contributed to the Committees discussions of the Executive Directors and has concluded during the year, and we hope that all our that an increase of 2% will be made to shareholders will support these resolutions.
Warren East in line with those made to other employees.
All salary increases for management are being deferred until 1 September 2017.
No increases are being Ruth Cairnie made for other Executive Directors.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT 75 Remuneration for 2016 at a glance Annual bonus Performance Fixed pay APRA share plan PSP Fixed pay Base salary No increases for Executive Directors in 2016.
Base salaries during the year were: Warren East 925,000: Colin Smith 550,000: David Smith 540,000.
Pension Pension arrangements during the year were: Warren East cash allowance of 25% of salary.
Colin Smith continued participation in defined benefit scheme with no further accrual.
cash allowance of 32% of salary.
David Smith cash allowance of 32% of salary.
Other benefits Benefits include car or car allowance and related costs, financial planning assistance, certain insurances and other benefits.
Annual bonus APRA Maximum award For 2016, the maximum APRA was 180% of salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for other Executive Directors.
Performance Group performance for 2016 was based on: measures 75% financial profit and cash performance.
25% non-financial employee and customer metrics.
Group performance outcomes can be multiplied by 0% to 120% based on individual performance.
Deferral 40% of awards are deferred into shares for two years.
GROUP AND INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE AND BONUS OUTCOMES Award for 2016 Group performance Individual multiplier Overall percentage Overall percentage percentage of max of salary of maximum Warren East 60% 1.1 99% 55% Colin Smith 60% 1.0 75% 50% David Smith 60% 1.0 75% 50% Discretion was applied to reduce the Group performance outturn to on-target 60% of maximum.
Performance share plan PSP Maximum award The maximum annual PSP award is normally 180% of salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for other Executive Directors.
As disclosed last year, for 2016 awards only, the maximum opportunities were reduced to 150% of salary and 130% of salary respectively as a balance to changes to the measurement of the EPS hurdle.
Performance measures Awards are subject to an aggregate CPS performance condition measured over three years.
The number of shares awarded can then be adjusted up to 125% for 2016 awards based on relative TSR versus constituents of the FTSE 100.
No awards can vest until an EPS hurdle is met.
As disclosed last year, for 2016 awards EPS must exceed the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD index of consumer prices over the two-year period 2017 and 2018.
Vesting of 2014 award The 2014 PSP awards will lapse in March 2017 based on performance to 31 December 2016 as the performance measures were not met.
Shareholding Shareholding The Chief Executive is required to build up a holding equal to 250% of salary.
For other Executive Directors requirements the requirement is 200% of salary.
Based on current policy which is available on our website at www.
APRA and PSP awards are subject to malus and clawback in certain circumstances see page 79.
