96 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Lewis Booth Audit Committee report Chairman of the Audit Committee During 2016, we recommended revisions Review the procedures for detecting, Highlights to reflect the review of Directors and senior monitoring and managing the risk of fraud.
managers expenses that we undertake Review the system of internal control Implementation of enhanced and to remove the requirements for the over the business processes and the risk management system.
Committee to review payments to risks identified through the risk shareholders, which are considered by the management process.
Issue of governance framework Board as a whole.
Internal audit The Committee met six times in 2016. Review of key judgements and In addition, the audit tender steering Review the scope, resources, results estimates and consistency of group see page 102 also met six times.
and effectiveness of internal audit.
The Chief Financial Officer, Deputy CFO & External auditor Group Controller, Group Chief Accountant, Significant progress on the Director of Internal Audit, General Counsel, Oversee the relationship with the external adoption of IFRS 15.
Director of Risk and representatives from our auditor, review the effectiveness of the external auditor are also invited to attend.
external audit process and make PwC selected as auditor Lord Gold also attended the Committees recommendations to the Board for the for 2018. meetings in July and December.
external auditors appointment and fees.
Principal responsibilities Areas of focus for 2016 The principal responsibilities of the Overseeing the ongoing projects to 2016 overview Committee are to assist the Board in enhance the systems for risk fulfilling its oversight responsibilities.
Introduction Assessing the effectiveness of internal Financial reporting control over financial reporting.
I am pleased to present the 2016 report of the Review financial results announcements Audit Committee which describes how the and financial statements, focusing on: Reviewing key accounting judgements Committee has carried out its responsibilities and estimates and the consistent the appropriateness of critical during the year.
I would like to thank the application of accounting policies which accounting policies, judgements and members of the Committee, the executive had the most significant impacts on the estimates and consistent application management team and KPMG for the open financial results in 2016.
In addition, of those accounting policies: discussions that take place at our meetings we requested a comprehensive review and the importance they all attach to its work.
inclusion of appropriate disclosures: of the application of all accounting policies across the Group.
All members of the Committee are compliance with relevant regulations: independent Non-executive Directors.
and Reviewing the Groups basis for the Alan Davies stepped down from the Board viability statement.
reporting to the Board as to whether and the Committee in November 2016. the Annual Report, as a whole, is fair, Overseeing the project for the For the purposes of the Code, Irene Dorner balanced and understandable.
implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from and I have recent and relevant financial Contracts with Customers, which will be experience.
Our biographies are on pages Risk and control environment adopted in 2018.
Assess the scope and effectiveness of the Reviewing the progress of the systems to identify, manage and monitor management information systems project.
Operation of the Committee financial and non-financial risks.
Reviewing principal risks on behalf The Committees responsibilities are outlined Assess the management of principal risks of the Board.
in its terms of reference which we review allocated to the Committee: business annually and refer to the Board for approval.
continuity, market and financial shock Leading the audit tender process.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 97 At a glance Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Financial The appropriateness of accounting policies and key accounting judgements The accounting policies and key reporting and estimates, including: judgements and estimates are appropriate and key estimates used estimates used in accounting for long-term contractual arrangements, are balanced.
including the regular review of the methodologies for taking account of uncertainties in these estimates and the financial impact: The reviews of consistent application of accounting policies identified some further impairment of goodwill in Marine: minor differences, which have now carrying value of goodwill in Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG: and been amended.
The Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The consistency of the application of accounting policies across the Group.
IFRS 15 will introduce some very The form and content of the Annual Report.
significant changes in accounting The implementation project for IFRS 15 and the communication to investors policies, particularly in the Civil in November 2016.
Risk and control Improvements to the risk management and internal controls systems to address Appropriate procedures are in place environment requirements of the Code.
to identify and manage principal risks and all of these have been subject to a Managements assessment of the risk of a disruptive event.
review by the Board or an appropriate Board committee.
The procedures for preventing, monitoring and combatting breaches of the security of the Groups IT systems.
Appropriate procedures are in place to manage business continuity, The processes for identifying and managing risks.
cyber-security and market shock risks.
The model for assessing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
The internal control system meets The process and assumptions underlying the viability statement.
the requirements of the Code.
It will continue to be enhanced during 2017.
Reported to the Board that an appropriate process is in place to make the viability statement.
Internal audit The effectiveness of the internal audit function, its key findings and trends arising, The scope, extent and effectiveness and the resolution of these matters.
of internal audit are appropriate.
External audit The approach and scope of external audit and the effectiveness and independence Assessed KPMG as effective and of the external auditor and the review of the 2015 Rolls-Royce audit by the FRCs independent and recommended their Audit Quality Review team.
The extent of non-audit services provided by KPMG and the tendering firms during No concerns over the nature and scale the tender process.
of the non-audit services provided.
The requirements of the FRCs new Ethical Standard on non-audit services.
Approved a revised policy on the provision of non-audit services.
A thorough process resulted in the Committee recommending to the Board that  LLP PwC be proposed at the 2018 AGM to succeed KPMG as the Groups auditor.
98 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 consequential impact on the application of the policies.
The key Business and function presentations areas of focus in 2016 are set out in the table opposite.
In part, these We have a regular schedule of presentations from each of the reflect the current weak trading conditions in Marine.
Overall, we Groups businesses and its key functions.
During 2016, we received are satisfied that the judgements and estimates made are balanced.
presentations from the following: In July, the FRC wrote to the Company following its review of the 2015 Annual Report.
This review, which was based solely on the Civil Aerospace key business risks including major product Annual Report, did not identify any questions or queries which the failure, on-time and profitable delivery of new programmes, FRC wished to pursue, although a number of suggestions for business continuity risks including supply chain disruption improvements were noted, and these have been taken into account and market shock due to external events or factors reducing in preparing the 2016 Annual Report.
air travel : accounting policies: key accounting judgements, estimates and controls: credit risks associated with customers: During the year, we reviewed the conclusions reached by the and TotalCare and CorporateCare accounting.
implementation project on IFRS 15, which will be applicable Defence Aerospace key business risks including the impact for 2018. of government spending and pricing in the traditional This new standard will have a significant impact on our accounting UK and US markets and the protection of our position in the policies for revenue recognition, most particularly in our Civil transport and patrol markets : and key accounting estimates Aerospace business.
We agreed with the conclusions reached that which principally relate to long-term contracts, in particular will require us to account for OE and aftermarket contracts the contract loss provisions on the contract for TP400 separately and to recognise aftermarket revenues based on development and production : and controls.
activities performed rather than flying hours.
Marine key business risks including the impact of the current These changes were presented at an investor event in November low oil price to the offshore business and the restructuring 2016 and are discussed further in the accounting policies on programme : and key accounting estimates which principally page130.
relate to the carrying value of goodwill and inventory, warranty The Group continues to consult with other companies in the and restructuring provisions : and controls.
We believe that the new policies will Group Tax Director approach to managing the Groups tax be broadly comparable across the sector.
affairs: key tax risks and how they are managed with specific consideration of tax disputes : key sources of estimation Since the year end, we have reviewed the form and content of the uncertainty in particular the recognition of deferred tax assets : Companys 2016 Annual Report together with the processes used to and key tax-related disclosures in particular we considered the prepare and verify it.
We have reported to the Board that, taken as disclosure of the Groups approach to managing its tax affairs.
a whole, we consider the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable.
We further believe the Annual Report provides We also reviewed the introduction of enhanced management the necessary information for shareholders to adequately assess the information systems.
To date, these have covered the introduction Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In making of new dashboards and forecasting processes which have improved this assessment, we considered: visibility to the ELT and the Board, although more work is required.
The process for preparing the Annual Report, including a steering The full benefits will also be dependent on the implementation of committee, the core team, and instructions to contributors.
improvements to underlying IT systems over the next few years.
Written representations from management in respect of the business reviews, sustainability, principal risks and financial Financial reporting statements.
The completion of a regulatory compliance checklist.
We place considerable emphasis on making sure that the All reviews performed including the Board, the ELT and KPMG.
accounting policies are appropriate and are consistently applied so We ensured that all feedback was appropriately reflected.
that the financial statements faithfully represent the results and financial position of the Group and its underlying contractual arrangements.
Given the long-term nature of the Groups businesses, most of the accounting policies subject to significant judgement do not change materially year-on-year.
However, the facts and circumstances on which those judgements are based do vary over time, with a DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 99 Financial reporting: key areas of focus Key issues Matters considered Outcome Indications of impairment of The assessments of the value-in-use We are satisfied that there were no indications of impairment.
the carrying values of intangible of the principal intangible assets, assets in Civil Aerospace including the key assumptions and estimates on which they are based.
The estimates used in accounting The basis on which the estimates We are satisfied that the process produces balanced estimates, for long-term contractual are prepared and, in particular, with appropriate consideration of the uncertainties.
arrangements in Civil Aerospace are how the inherent uncertainties are The Civil Aerospace business continued to review the estimates appropriate reflected in these estimates.
and compare them to the actual outcome.
Based on this actual In particular: experience, which was generally better than previously assumed, Lifecycle cost improvements.
this led to a revision to the estimates, which resulted in a net profit benefit of 90m.
The estimates for long-term exchange rates were reviewed against third-party forecasts.
This led to a reduction in these forecasts, resulting in a one-off profit benefit of 35m.
The sale of engines to joint ventures The basis for assessing the selling price.
We are satisfied that the price represents the fair value of the engines.
Impairment of goodwill in Marine The forecasts for each of the relevant We are satisfied with the analysis and that impairments should cash generating units, including the key be recognised where these did not support the carrying value assumptions on which they are based.
Whether there is any impairment The business plan and the underlying We are satisfied that, although the headroom has reduced as to the carrying value of the goodwill assumptions on which it is based.
a result of the current trading environment, there is no indication in Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG of impairment.
Warranty and contractual The basis for specific warranty and We are satisfied that the estimates reflect a balanced assessment provisions in Marine contractual provisions.
Post-retirement benefits The impact of the restructuring We are satisfied that the impacts are reflected in accordance of the five UK defined benefit schemes.
with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, in particular their recognition in the Income Statement and Other Comprehensive Income.
We were also satisfied that the exclusion of the settlement and related costs of 306m from the underlying results is appropriate see page 157.
Deferred tax assets DTAs The recognition of DTAs arising from Based on the Groups forecasts, we are satisfied that it is appropriate tax losses in the UK and Norway.
to continue to recognise the UK DTAs, and that, given the current uncertainty in the oil & gas market, those in Norway should cease to be recognised.
See note 9 to the financial statements for further details of the assumptions.
100 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Review of principal risks Sector audit committees We considered in detail the principal risks that have been allocated In support of our work, each of the Groups businesses and principal to us by the Board.
We reviewed: functions has its own sector audit committee, each of which Business continuity comprises senior finance personnel and is attended by business The generic design of the Civil Aerospace supply chain and the risks and functional leaders and KPMG.
Thesecommittees: that arise due to constraints such as single sources of supply.
The management of these risks using business continuity Allow the review of accounting policies and their consistent processes and controls.
application, risk management, internal systems and issues arising Improvements planned to enhance the visibility of key risks.
Give us further assurance as to the extent of management IT vulnerability control and accountability.
The changing threat landscape in particular the Nation State Promote the governance culture within the Group.
threat has diminished, but there has been an increase in targeting Inform areas for further consideration at our meetings.
of supply chain, joint ventures and other partners, and a very All the committees meet twice a year to consider the accounting significant increase in organised crime threats.
policies, judgements and estimates and the internal control How the principal risks are being tracked and managed.
They are chaired by the Director of Internal Audit, Improvement activities over the past year.
During the year, both Irene Dorner and I Plans for the future.
attended sector audit committee meetings.
Market and financial shock The Groups exposure to market risks in particular: exchange In 2016, the sector audit committees have focused on the improvement rates, oil prices, interest rates, liquidity, credit risk reductions in project for internal control and risk management processes.
air travel or other disruption to customers operations.
The Groups policies, procedures and controls for identifying, Risk and control environment managing and mitigating these risks, in particular through the Financial Risk Committee which meets quarterly, chaired by the Assessment of principal risks Chief Financial Officer.
Risk management is a fundamental and integral part of how we We are satisfied that appropriate procedures are in place to monitor work.
All risks are managed through a risk management system and manage these risks.
RMS described on page 48 in accordance with policies and guidance established by the Director of Risk and his team and Internal control approved by the Board.
The Board has overall responsibility to the shareholders for the Judgement is required in evaluating the risks facing the Group in Groups system of internal control over its business and risk achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered management processes and the risks identified through the risk acceptable, in determining the likelihood of those risks materialising, management process.
The Committee has responsibility for inidentifying the Groups ability to reduce the incidence and impact reviewing the systems operation and effectiveness.
onthe business of risks that do materialise, and in ensuring the costs of The Group has a long-standing process for identifying risks and operating particular controls are proportionate to the benefit provided.
planning mitigating actions and for assessing the effectiveness of On behalf of the Board, we monitored the RMS.
In assessing the Code requirements in 2015, the focused on the continued implementation of the enhancements Group identified improvements to the existing processes.
These are described in more detail on page 48. the implementation of these improvements has continued.
Our model for representing the system comprises: This process and the principal risks arising see page 50 then formed the basis for our assessment of the going concern and Entity-level controls covering leadership and direction from the top.
viability statements which are discussed later in this report.
Specific control activities, covering detailed process controls, and The processes are designed to identify and manage, rather than internal and external assurance activities.
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve our business objectives.
In 2016, the Group issued a governance framework providing an We satisfied ourselves that the processes for identifying and overview of how internal control frameworks to manage risk in key managing the principal risks are appropriate and that all risks and business activities are established.
This gives a framework for the mitigating actions had been subject, during the year, to a detailed entity-level controls.
The Group has continued to document and review by the Board or an appropriate committee.
Based on this assess the effectiveness of core financial controls, and we routinely and on our other activities, including consideration of the work review controls over the Groups principal risks, and the key risks of internal and external audit and presentations from senior and critical processes in each of the Groups businesses.
Both the management of each business which include risk management, sector audit committees and this Committee also consider KPMGs we reported to the Board that a robust assessment of the observations on the Groups control environment.
We noted a principal risks facing the Company had been undertaken.
general improvement in the control environment, including the ongoing improvements to the controls around the accounting for long-term aftermarket contracts in Civil Aerospace referred to in the Independent auditors report on pages 177 and 178.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 101 The Group has also used the internal control framework as an I meet the Director of Internal Audit privately before each meeting opportunity to improve the consistency of reporting, in particular and on an ad-hoc basis throughout the year, as do other members fromthe Groups smaller operations.
We paid particular attention of the Committee.
As a whole we have a private meeting with him to internal controls over financial reporting and have implemented at least once a year.
These discussions cover the activities, findings, a wide-ranging plan to improve controls in this area.
resolution of control weaknesses, progress against the agreed plan and the resourcing of the department.
We have conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, including those We are satisfied that the scope, extent and effectiveness of internal relating to the financial reporting process, in accordance with the audit work are appropriate for the Group and that there is a sound Code.
The Groups systems of risk management and internal control plan for ensuring that this continues to be the case as our business have been in place throughout 2016.
We consider that these existing progresses and risks change.
systems, together with the enhancements made in 2016, are sufficient to meet the requirements of the Code and the FCAs External audit Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
2016 audit Going concern and viability statements During the year, KPMG presented the audit strategy, which We reviewed the processes and assumptions underlying the identified their assessment of the key audit risks and the proposed statements set out on page 53.
In particular, we considered: scope of audit work.
We agreed the approach and scope of audit The Groups forecast funding position over the next five years.
Key risks and the audit approach to these An analysis of impacts of severe but plausible risk scenarios, risks are discussed in the Independent auditors report pages 176 ensuring that these were consistent with the risks reviewed by to 182, which also highlights the other significant risks that KPMG the Board as part of its strategy review.
The impact of multiple risks occurring simultaneously.
As part of the reporting of the half-year and full-year results, in July Additional mitigating actions that Group could take in extreme 2016 and February 2017, KPMG reported to the Committee on its circumstances.
assessment of the Groups judgements and estimates in respect of The current borrowing facilities in place and the availability these risks and the adequacy of the reporting.
KPMG also reported of future facilities.
on its assessment of the Groups control environment.
As a result, we were satisfied that the going concern and viability We also undertook an assessment of KPMGs qualifications, statements have been prepared on an appropriate basis.
expertise and resources, independence and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
This included: Internal audit A presentation to the Committee of KPMGs Quality Control We receive a quarterly dashboard from the Director of Internal Framework and Internal Quality Evaluation, the experience of the Audit identifying key trends and findings from internal audit key members of the audit team and the extent of their individual reports, and the resolution of actions agreed.
Twice a year, we involvement in the audit work.
This also included KPMGs review detailed updates of significant findings.
In particular, responses to matters identified by management in a survey we review the nature andnumber of issues raised by internal conducted following the 2015 audit.
audit and the time to complete the related actions.
The small Consideration of the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection AQI Annual number of overdue actions received particular attention and the Report 2015 16 on KPMG.
time to complete all actions has reduced, and is now in line with expectations.
In November, we reviewed and approved the internal The results of the AQI review of KPMGs audit of Rolls-Royce.
I am confident that the plan is strongly correlated to the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team monitors the quality of audit key risks facing the business, and we monitor changes during the work of UK audit firms, including inspections of a sample of audits.
During 2016, the AQR reviewed the 2015 audit.
The review findings noted limited areas for improvement and commended KPMG on the We also receive two reports each year setting out the Director of particularly high standard of its auditors report.
We have discussed Internal Audits perspectives on the internal control environment.
these findings with the AQR and KPMG: KPMGs responses to the These are used to drive management responses to underlying root areas for improvement were incorporated into the 2016 audit work.
Topics discussed in 2016 included: process and control design: compliance to process: data integrity: The Committee does not consider any of the findings to have a and management behaviours.
significant impact on KPMGs audit approach.
We also reviewed the fees of the external auditor.
Our conclusions were that the external The Committee considered and reviewed the effectiveness audit was carried out effectively, efficiently and with the necessary of the Groups internal audit function, including resources, plans objectivity and independence.
and performance as well as the functions interaction with management.
The outcome of the 2016 review was positive We continue to support the extended auditors report and KPMGs and identified opportunities for ongoing improvement which approach which goes beyond the minimum requirements, have been implemented.
providing additional clarity on the key judgements and estimates.
102 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Audit tender I meet with the lead partner prior to each meeting and the whole Committee has a private meeting with KPMG at least once a year.
As reported last year, we are required to appoint a new auditor no later than 2020.
As planned, we tendered the audit in 2016, for the Re-appointment of KPMG appointment of a new external auditor for the financial year 2018.
The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board The process was led by an audit tender steering group comprising with regard to the re-appointment of the external auditor.
In doing the Committee members, the Chief Financial Officer and the so, we take into account auditor independence and audit partner Director of Internal Audit and supported by Group Finance and rotation.
KPMG was appointed as auditor in 1990.
No contractual Purchasing, which met six times from May until November.
obligations restrict our choice of external auditor.
The lead audit We issued a request for proposal in August 2016 to suitable, partner is required to rotate every five years and other key audit appropriately experienced candidates to participate in the tender.
partners are required to rotate every seven years.
Jimmy Daboo The process included: provision of data on the Group operations, tookover as lead audit partner in 2013, and will be required to finances and processes: meetings with key management from the rotate after the 2018 AGM.
For the first time since KPMGs businesses and Group functions and two presentations to the appointment, in 2016, we have tendered the audit for appointment Committee.
In December, the Committee concluded that PwC was in 2018, coinciding with Jimmy Daboos rotation.
the preferred firm to conduct the audit engagement, judged The Committee and the Board have recommended KPMGs against the selection criteria including quality of the proposed re-appointment at the 2017 AGM.
team, experience within the aerospace and defence industry, and available resources and organisation.
Non-audit services provided by KPMG The Committee recommended that the Board propose, to the In order to safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity, 2018AGM, the appointment of PwC as the external auditor of the wedo not engage KPMG for any non-audit services except where it Company for the financial year 2018.
On behalf of the Committee, is work that they must, or are clearly best suited to, perform.
Fees Iwould like to thank all the candidates for the quality and paid to KPMG for audit, audit-related and other services are set out professionalism of their proposals.
in note 8 to the Financial Statements and summarised below.
The Committee considers that the Company has, throughout the All proposed services must be pre-approved in accordance with the year ended 31 December 2016, complied with The Statutory Audit non-audit services policy which is reviewed and approved annually.
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use Above defined levels, my pre-approval is required.
The Committee of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee also reviews the non-audit fees charged by KPMG quarterly.
Non-audit related fees paid to KPMG during the year were 12% 2015:29% of the audit fee.
Our annual review of the external auditor Looking forward takes into account the nature and level of all services provided.
During 2017, we will monitor the transition activities so that PwC 2016 2015 can take over the audit in 2018 in a seamless manner.
m % m % We will also continue to monitor: Audit 6.8 5.9 The implementation of IFRS 15, focusing on the development of 1 Audit-related 0.6 9 1.3 22 the supporting processes and controls.
Tax compliance 0.5 7 0.4 7 The key accounting judgements and estimates.
Other 0.1 1 The continuous improvements planned for the documentation of Non-audit 1.2 17 1.7 29 controls.
The continuing development of the management information 1 Includes 0.3m for the review of the half-year report.
systems and improvements to the underlying systems and tools.
Based on our review of the services provided by KPMG and IFRS 16 Leases will be applicable to the Group in 2019.
The Group will discussion with the lead audit partner, we concluded that neither address its implementation during 2017, and we will review the the nature nor the scale of these services gave any concerns development of these plans.
regarding the objectivity or independence of KPMG.
In addition to the continuing oversight by the Safety & Ethics As part of the EU audit reform, with effect from 1 January 2017, Committee of the Companys ethics and compliance programme theFRCs Ethical Standard places further restrictions on auditors see pages 105 and 106, we will monitor the Groups actions relating undertaking non-audit services.
Accordingly, we have revised our to risk management, internal controls and other matters relevant policies for the engagement of the auditor to undertake non-audit to the Committee that arise out of Lord Golds recommendations, services, broadly limiting these to audit-related services such as and from the agreements with prosecuting authorities.
reporting to lenders and grant providers.
Lewis Booth During the audit tender process, we also implemented additional Chairman of the Audit Committee procedures to monitor engagements with each potential future auditor to ensure that we can discontinue or transition any engagements with the new auditor as required.
