Governance at a glance Governance Board of directors at a glance Chairman Executive directors Howard Davies Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson Our Board Non-executive directors The Board has twelve directors comprising the Chairman, two Sandy Crombie Penny Hughes executive directors and nine independent non-executive Senior Independent Director directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
Brendan Nelson Frank Dangeard Biographies for each director can be found on pages 58 to 61.
Baroness Noakes Mike Rogers was appointed to the Board on 26 January 2016 and Alison Davis Mike Rogers Frank Dangeard was appointed to the Board on 16 May 2016.
Morten Friis Robert Gillespie The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of RBS and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
Its role is to provide leadership of RBS within a framework of prudent and Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel effective controls which enables risks to be assessed and managed.
Aileen Taylor Company Secretary An internal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees was conducted in 2016, led by the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel.
Our Board committees Sustainable Banking Committee Executive Committee In order to provide effective Provides support to the Board in The Board is supported by the oversight and leadership, the overseeing actions being taken by Executive Committee comprising Board has established a number of management to run a sustainable the executive directors and other Board committees with particular long term business, with specific senior executives.
The work of the focus on culture, people, customer, Chief Executive in managing RBSs Board committees is discussed in brand and environmental social businesses.
It reviews and debates their individual reports.
The terms of and ethical issues.
relevant items before consideration reference for each of these committees by the Board.
It is responsible for is available on rbs.
Group Performance and developing and delivering RBSs Remuneration Committee strategy and it monitors and manages The full Governance report is on Responsible for approving financial performance, capital pages 57 to 111 of the 2016 Annual remuneration policy and reviewing the allocation, risk strategy and policy, risk Report and Accounts.
management, operational issues and It also considers senior executive customer issues.
Group Audit Committee remuneration and makes Assists the Board in discharging its recommendations to the Board on the UK Corporate responsibilities for monitoring the remuneration of executive directors.
Governance Code quality of the financial statements of Throughout the year ended 31 RBS.
It reviews the accounting policies, Group Nominations and December 2016, RBS has complied financial reporting and regulatory Governance Committee with all of the provisions of the UK compliance practices of RBS and RBSs Assists the Board in the selection and Corporate Governance Code issued systems and standards of internal appointment of directors.
It reviews by the Financial Reporting Council controls, and monitors the work of the structure, size and composition of dated April 2016 except in relation internal audit and external audit.
the Board, and the membership and to provision D. 2.2 that the Group chairmanship of Board committees.
Performance and Remuneration Board Risk Committee It considers succession planning Committee should have delegated Provides oversight and advice to the taking into account the skills and responsibility for setting remuneration Board on current and potential future expertise which will be needed on the for the Chairman and executive risk exposures of RBS and future risk Board in future.
Its remit also includes directors.
RBS considers that this strategy.
It reviews RBSs compliance governance oversight.
is a matter which should rightly be with approved risk appetite and reserved for the Board.
oversees the operation of the RBS Policy Framework and submissions to regulators.
