Governance Page Our Board 58 Corporate governance 63 Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee 69 Report of the Group Audit Committee 71 Report of the Board Risk Committee 79 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee 85 Directors remuneration report 88 Other Remuneration Disclosures 109 Compliance report 112 Report of the directors 115 Statement of directors responsibilities 122 RBS MIB 00000057 Secret 57 Our Board Chairman Howard Davies age 66 External appointment s : Nationality: British Independent director of Prudential plc and Date of appointment: 14 July 2015 Board, chair of the Risk Committee 1 September 2015 Chairman Member of the Regulatory and Compliance Advisory Board of Millennium Management Experience: Howard was Deputy Governor of the LLC Bank of England from 1995 to 1997 and Chairman Chair of the International Advisory Council of the UK Financial Services Authority from 1997 of the China Securities Regulatory to 2003.
Howard was Director of the London Commission School of Economics and Political Science from Member of the International Advisory 2003 until May 2011.
He is also Professor of Council of the China Banking Regulatory Practice at the Paris Institute of Political Science Commission Sciences Po.
Chairman of the London Library Trustees Committee membership s : Howard was chair of the UK Airports Commission Group Nominations and Governance between 2012 and 2015 and is also the author of Committee Chairman several books on financial subjects.
Executive directors Chief Executive Ross McEwan age 59 External appointment s : Nationality: New Zealand None Date of appointment: 1 October 2013 Committee membership s : Experience: Ross became Chief Executive of The Executive Committee Chairman Royal Bank of Scotland Group in October 2013.
Between August 2012 and September 2013, he was Chief Executive Officer for UK Retail, joining from Commonwealth Bank of Australia where he was Group Executive for Retail Banking Services for five years.
Prior to this he was Executive General Manager with responsibility for the branch network, contact centres and third party mortgage brokers.
Ross has more than 25 years experience in the finance, insurance and investment industries.
Prior to Commonwealth Bank of Australia, he was Managing Director of First NZ Capital Securities.
He was also Chief Executive of National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd AXA New Zealand Ltd. Ross has an MBA from Harvard.
Chief Financial Officer Ewen Stevenson age 50 External appointment s : Nationality: British New Zealand None Date of appointment: 19 May 2014 Committee membership s : Experience: Prior to his current role, Ewen was at Executive Committee Credit Suisse for 25 years where he was latterly US Risk Committee co-Head of the EMEA Investment Banking Division and co-Head of the Global Financial Institutions Group.
He has over 20 years of experience advising the banking sector while at Credit Suisse.
Ewen has a Bachelor of Commerce and Administration majoring in Accountancy and a Bachelor of Law from Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand.
58 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Sandy Crombie age 68 External appointment s : Nationality: British President of the Cockburn Association Date of appointment: 1 June 2009 Senior Independent Director Committee membership s : Group Performance and Remuneration Experience: Sandy spent his entire full-time Committee Chairman career with Standard Life plc, retiring as Group Group Audit Committee Chief Executive.
An actuary, he has served his Group Nominations and Governance profession in a variety of roles and has also Committee served as a director of the Association of British GRG Board Oversight Committee Insurers.
Sandy has had a variety of cultural and community roles, and was previously Chairman of Creative Scotland, Chairman of the Edinburgh World City of Literature Trust and vice-Chairman of the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland.
Frank Dangeard age 59 External appointment s : Nationality: French Non-executive director of the RPX Date of appointment: 16 May 2016 Corporation Non-executive director of Symantec Experience: Previously, Frank served as a nonCorporation executive director of Crdit Agricole CIB, EDF, Home Credit, Orange, Sonaecom SGPS, and as Committee membership s : Deputy Chairman and acting Chairman of Telenor Board Risk Committee ASA.
During his executive career he held various roles at Thomson S. A. including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and was Deputy Chief Executive Officer of France Telecom.
Prior to that he was Chairman of SG Warburg France and a Managing Director of SG Warburg.
Frank is a graduate of HEC and IEP in Paris and of the Harvard Law School in the US.
Alison Davis age 55 External appointment s : Nationality: British USA Non-executive director and member of Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 the compensation and audit committees of Unisys Corporation Experience: Previously, Alison served as a Non-executive director, and member of director of City National Bank, First Data the audit committee of Fiserv Inc Corporation, Xoom, Diamond foods and chair of Non-executive director and chair of the the board and as Non-executive director of audit committee of Ooma Inc LECG Corporation.
She has also worked at McKinsey & Company, AT Kearney, as Chief Committee membership s : Financial Officer at Barclays Global Investors Group Nominations and Governance now BlackRock and as managing partner of Committee Belvedere Capital, a private equity firm focused Group Performance and Remuneration on buy-outs in the financial services sector.
Committee Sustainable Banking Committee Alison is a graduate of Cambridge University and Stafford Business School.
59 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Morten Friis age 64 External appointment s : Nationality: Norwegian Member of the Board of Directors of The Date of appointment: 10 April 2014 Canadian Institute for Advanced Research Member of the Board of Directors of the Experience: Previously, Morten had a 34 year Harvard Business School Club of Toronto financial services career and held various roles at Non-executive director of Jackson National Royal Bank of Canada and its subsidiaries Life Insurance Company including Associate Director at Orion Royal Bank, Vice President, Business Banking and Vice Committee membership s : President, Financial Institutions.
In 1997, he was Group Audit Committee appointed as Senior Vice President, Group Risk Board Risk Committee Management and served as the Chief Credit US Risk Committee Chairman Officer then Chief Risk Officer from 2004 to 2014.
He was also previously a Director of RBC Bank USA, Westbury Life Insurance Company, RBC Life Insurance Company and of RBC Dexia Investor Services Trust Company.
Robert Gillespie age 61 External appointment s : Nationality: British Independent board director at Ashurst LLP Date of appointment: 2 December 2013 Chairman of Council at the University of Durham Experience: Robert began his career with Price Chairman of the Boat Race Company Waterhouse now  where Limited he qualified as a chartered accountant.
He then Director of Social Finance Limited moved into banking joining SG Warburg, specialising in corporate finance, and was Committee membership s : appointed as Co-Head and Managing Director of Group Nominations and Governance its US investment banking business in 1989.
Committee Following the acquisition in 1995 of Warburg by Group Performance and Remuneration Swiss Bank Corporation which subsequently Committee merged with UBS, he then held the roles of Head Sustainable Banking Committee of UK Corporate Finance, Head of European GRG Board Oversight Committee Corporate Finance and Co-Head of its global business and CEO of the EMEA region.
He relinquished his management roles at the end of 2005, and was appointed Vice Chairman of UBS Investment Bank.
Robert left UBS to join Evercore Partners, from where he was seconded to the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, as Director General, from 2010 to 2013.
Penny Hughes, CBE age 57 External appointment s : Nationality: British Non-executive Chairman of The Gym Date of appointment: 1 January 2010 Group plc.
Also chair of the nominations and member of the audit, risk and Experience: Previously a non-executive director remuneration committees and Chairman of the corporate compliance and Non-executive director and member of the responsibility committee of Wm Morrison audit and nomination committees of Supermarkets plc.
Other former non-executive SuperGroup plc directorships include Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Home Retail Group plc, Vodafone Committee membership s : Group plc, Reuters Group PLC, Cable & Wireless Sustainable Banking Committee Worldwide plc and The Gap Inc. Penny spent the Chairman majority of her executive career at Coca-Cola Board Risk Committee where she held a number of leadership positions, GRG Board Oversight Committee latterly as President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland.
60 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Brendan Nelson age 67 External appointment s : Nationality: British Non-executive director and Chairman of the Date of appointment: 1 April 2010 audit committee of BP plc Member of the Financial Reporting Review Experience: Brendan was global Chairman, Panel financial services for KPMG.
He previously held senior leadership roles within KPMG including as a Committee membership s : member of the KPMG UK board from 1999 to 2006 Group Audit Committee Chairman and as vice-Chairman from 2006 until his Group Nominations and Governance retirement in 2010.
He was Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee of the Institute of Chartered Board Risk Committee Accountants of Scotland from 2005 to 2008.
GRG Board Oversight Committee President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Chairman of Scotland 2013 14.
Baroness Noakes, DBE age 67 External appointment s : Nationality: British Deputy Chairman, Ofcom Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 Committee membership s : Experience: Baroness Noakes is an experienced Board Risk Committee Chairman director on UK listed company boards with Group Audit Committee extensive and varied political and public sector GRG Board Oversight Committee experience.
A qualified chartered accountant, she US Risk Committee previously headed KPMGs European and International Government practices and has been President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
She was appointed to the House of Lords in 2000 and has served on the Conservative front bench in various roles including as shadow treasury minister between 2003 and May 2010.
Previously held non-executive roles on the Court of the Bank of England, Hanson, ICI, Severn Trent, Carpetright, John Laing and SThree.
Mike Rogers age 52 External appointment s : Nationality: British None Date of appointment: 26 January 2016 Committee membership s : Experience: Mike has extensive experience in Group Performance and Remuneration retail banking and financial services.
Mike joined Committee Barclays in 1986 where he undertook a variety of Sustainable Banking Committee roles in the UK and overseas across business banking, wealth management and retail banking.
Mike was Managing Director of Small Business, Premier Banking and UK Retail Banking and was latterly Chief Executive of Liverpool Victoria Group for 10 years.
61 Our Board Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel Aileen Taylor age 44 Aileen is a fellow of the Chartered Institute Nationality: British of Bankers in Scotland and a member of Date of appointment: 1 May 2010 the European Corporate Governance Company Secretary Council.
She is also a member of the FCAs Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
Experience: A qualified solicitor, Aileen joined RBS in 2000.
She was appointed Deputy Group Secretary and Head of Group Secretariat in 2007, and prior to that held various legal, secretariat and risk roles including Head of External Risk Retail, Head of Regulatory Risk Retail Direct and Head of Legal and Compliance Direct Line Financial Services.
Executive Committee The Board is supported by the Executive Committee comprising the executive directors and other senior executives.
Details of the composition of the Executive Committee and biographies of its members can be found at rbs.
com about us board and governance ceo and board executive committee.
62 Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Board changes I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance report.
The Mike Rogers was appointed as a non-executive director on 26 following report provides an overview of key roles and January 2016.
Mike was appointed as a member of the responsibilities of the Board, and sets out in greater detail how Sustainable Banking Committee with effect from 25 April 2016, the Board spent its time in 2016.
Board effectiveness and and a member of the Group Performance and Remuneration performance evaluation are also covered, as well as an overview Committee with effect from 1 January 2017.
Frank Dangeard was of how we communicate with shareholders.
appointed as a non-executive director on 16 May 2016 and as a member of the Board Risk Committee on 4 August 2016.
As mentioned in my Chairmans Statement on page 6, the Board has considered a number of key strategic, financial, regulatory Roles and responsibilities and litigation matters during 2016.
The Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of Understandably, capital strategy and planning remains a priority RBS and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board has continued to provide detailed terms of reference include a formal schedule of matters oversight of litigation and conduct matters, particularly the FCA specifically reserved for the Boards decision and are reviewed at review of the treatment of SME customers, shareholder litigation least annually.
The terms of reference are available at and RMBS litigation.
The divestment of Williams & Glyn: the rbs.
implications of the EU Referendum result: and the Transformation agenda were all key strategic challenges As mentioned above a number of board members have been deliberated by the Board this year.
The Board continues to designated as Senior Managers under the PRA and FCAs monitor steps being taken to drive cultural change, including risk Senior Managers Regime.
The role profiles of relevant directors culture, and ensuring that the right culture and values are have been updated to reflect their regulatory responsibilities and embedded throughout the organisation.
The Board has they receive ongoing support to ensure they can demonstrate the considered the preparations for the implementation of ringreasonable steps they have taken to meet their responsibilities.
fencing and this will be an area of continued focus in 2017.
Chairman On 7 March 2016, the PRA and FCAs Senior Managers Regime The role of Chairman is distinct and separate from that of the came into effect which, alongside the PRA and FCAs new Chief Executive and there is a clear division of responsibilities Certification and Conduct Rules regimes, is aimed at with the Chairman leading the Board and the Chief Executive strengthening personal accountability and conduct within managing RBS business day to day.
The Senior Managers Regime required us to identify those senior executives and board members referred to as The Chairmans key responsibilities are to: Senior Managers who would be allocated specific regulatory provide strong and effective leadership to the Board: responsibilities under the Senior Managers Regime.
The Board ensure the Board is structured effectively, observes the has received training and ongoing support to ensure that those highest standards of integrity and corporate governance, members who are Senior Managers are able to demonstrate their and sets the tone from the top in terms of culture and compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements.
values: build an effective and complementary Board with an I and my fellow directors are committed to observing high appropriate balance of skills and personalities, and as standards of corporate governance, integrity and professionalism.
Chairman of the Group Nominations and Governance Our statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Committee consider succession planning for Board Code the Code can be found on page 112. appointments: manage the business of the Board and set the agenda, style I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Directors and tone of Board discussions to promote effective decisionfor their continued commitment and dedication throughout 2016. making and constructive debate: facilitate the effective contribution and encourage active Howard Davies, Chairman of the Board engagement by all members of the Board: in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Chief The Board Governance Officer and Board Counsel, ensure that The Board has twelve directors comprising the Chairman, two members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear executive directors and nine independent non-executive information to enable the Board to lead RBS, take sound directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
decisions and monitor effectively the performance of executive management: Biographies for each director and details of which Board ensure that the performance of individual directors and of committees they are members of can be found on pages 58 to the Board as a whole and its committees is evaluated 61.
The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on regularly: and appointment and that all non-executive directors are independent ensure RBS maintains effective communication with for the purposes of the Code.
63 Corporate governance Chief Executive The Board Committee established in 2015 in relation to the The Chief Executive has responsibility for all of RBSs business Financial Conduct Authority review of the treatment of SME and acts in accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
customers continued to meet during 2016, to oversee and provide advice to the Board in relation to the review, the external The Chief Executives key responsibilities are to: independent review of Global Restructuring Group GRG exercise executive accountability for the RBS businesses instigated by the Group and other matters generally related to delivering operational management and oversee the full GRG.
A new US Risk Committee was established to comply with range of activities of the customer businesses and functions: US enhanced prudential standards and reports key matters develop, drive and deliver the strategy approved by the discussed to the BRC.
The first meeting took place in May 2016.
Board: drive and deliver performance against financial plans, acting Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel in accordance with authority delegated by the Board: Aileen Taylor is the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel consult regularly with the Chairman and Board on matters and the Company Secretary.
As of 1 January 2017, she also which may have a material impact on RBS: leads the banks Regulatory Affairs function as part of an act as champion of the culture and values of RBS, creating extended remit.
an environment where employees are engaged and committed to good customer outcomes: The Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsels key lead, manage and develop RBSs senior leadership team, responsibilities include: ensuring professional capability is developed and that working closely with the Chairman to ensure effective succession coverage meets the needs of RBS: functioning of the Board and appropriate alignment and ensure RBS has effective frameworks and structures to information flows between the Board and its committees, identify, assess and mitigate risks: and including the Executive Committee.
This includes Board in conjunction with the Chairman and Chief Governance succession planning, induction, and professional Officer and Board Counsel, ensure the Board receives development: accurate, timely and clear information.
providing support and advice to the Board on a broad range of strategic, governance, legal and regulatory issues: Senior Independent Director executive responsibility for Chairman non-executive director Sandy Crombie, as Senior Independent Director, acts as a search and appointment process: sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for management of the banks profile with key stakeholders, other directors when necessary.
He is also available to including oversight of relations with key influencers, such as shareholders to discuss any concerns they may have, as regulators: appropriate.
defining and delivering the corporate governance and regulatory affairs strategy across RBS: and Non-executive directors the provision of professional support to the Board and its Along with the Chairman and executive directors, the noncommittees and leading on implementation of executive directors are responsible for ensuring the Board fulfils recommendations from the annual Board evaluation.
its responsibilities under its terms of reference.
The nonexecutive directors combine broad business and commercial Conflicts of interests experience with independent and objective judgement and they RBS has procedures in place to ensure that the Boards provide independent challenge to the executive directors and the management of conflicts of interest and its powers for authorising leadership team.
The balance between non-executive and certain conflicts are operating effectively.
On appointment, each executive directors enables the Board to provide clear and director is provided with RBSs guidelines for referring conflicts of effective leadership across RBSs business activities.
Each director is required to notify the Board of any actual or potential situational or transactional conflicts of The standard terms and conditions of appointment of noninterest and to update the Board with any changes to the facts executive directors are available on rbs.
com or from RBS and circumstances surrounding such conflicts.
Corporate Governance and Regulatory Affairs.
Situational conflicts can be authorised by the Board in Board Committees accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the companys In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board Articles of Association.
The Board considers each request for has established a number of Board committees with particular authorisation on a case by case basis and has the power to responsibilities.
Please see page 54 of the Strategic Report for impose conditions or limitations on any authorisation granted as more details.
The terms of reference are available on rbs.
Details of all directors conflicts of interest are recorded in a register which is maintained by the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel and reviewed annually by the Board.
64 Corporate governance Board meetings Strategy In 2016, nine Board meetings were scheduled and individual annual Board strategy offsite attendance by directors at these meetings is shown in the table EU referendum implications below.
Ring-fencing, including legal entity restructuring transactions updates In addition to the nine scheduled meetings, 11 additional transformation programme meetings and committees of the Board were held, including Williams & Glyn disposal meetings to consider and approve financial statements.
The technology updates Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least once per year without executive directors present.
Risk & Conduct Attended stress testing scheduled risk appetite governance and framework Howard Davies 9 9 annual review of strategic risk appetite Ross McEwan 9 9 Individual Accountability Regime implementation Ewen Stevenson 9 9 Sandy Crombie 9 9 Legal & Governance Frank Dangeard 1 5 5 Annual Report and Accounts Alison Davis 9 9 AGM arrangements Morten Friis 9 9 board appointments Robert Gillespie 9 9 board and committee evaluation Penny Hughes 9 9 annual PRA and FCA presentation to the Board Brendan Nelson 9 9 external auditor evaluation Baroness Noakes 9 9 internal audit evaluation Mike Rogers 2 9 9 legal report, including litigation updates Notes: 1 Appointed to the Board on 16 May 2016.
2 Appointed to the Board on 26 January 2016.
Human Resources employee survey results Principal areas of Board focus during 2016 executive director remuneration proposals In advance of each Board meeting, the directors are provided executive talent session with comprehensive papers.
During 2016 the Board also visited the Ulster Bank business in At each Board meeting the directors received reports from the the Republic of Ireland, spending time on the business, risks and Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk challenges.
The directors met with key customers, politicians and Officer, Chief Conduct and Regulatory Affairs Officer, Franchise senior industry and business representatives.
CEOs and the Board Committee Chairmen.
An overview of the principal areas of Board focus during 2016 is set out below: Executive Committee Executive Committee members attend part of each Board Customer meeting to provide an update on the performance of each of the customer service franchises and risk, operational and conduct issues.
Other network distribution relevant senior executives attend Board meetings to present products and innovation reports to the Board as appropriate.
This provides the Board with branding an opportunity to engage directly with management on key issues culture and supports the Boards succession planning activity.
customer trust and advocacy Board effectiveness Skills and experience of the Board Finance The Board is structured to ensure that the directors provide RBS annual financial budget and plan with the appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge capital strategy and planning as well as independence.
Given the nature of RBSs businesses, Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process experience of banking and financial services is clearly of benefit, Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment and we have a number of directors with substantial experience in pension funding that area.
The Board also benefits from directors with experience recovery and resolution planning in other fields.
results and analysts presentations 65 Corporate governance The table below illustrates the breadth of skills and experience on During 2016, the directors received updates on a range of the Board.
subjects to enhance their knowledge, including: investor and rating agencies views on RBS: Retail Banking Chief Executive disruptive technologies: Broad Financial Services experience Market Abuse Regulations Inside Information and Persons Markets Investment Finance & Accountancy Discharging Management Responsibility aspects : Banking Risk corporate investigations: Government & Regulatory Technology Digital Senior Managers Regime: Mergers & Acquisitions Operations The Conduct Rules: Corporate Restructuring Change Management PRAs final Supervisory Statement on corporate governance Stakeholder Management Consumer Facing and board responsibilities: Ring-fencing: Board committees also comprise directors with a variety of skills board diversity: and experience so that no undue reliance is placed on any The UK Governments proposals for corporate governance individual.
reform: Induction and professional development Institute of Directors 2016 good governance report: Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the FRCs report on corporate culture and the role of the board: Board, which is co-ordinated by the Chief Governance Officer and and Board Counsel.
This includes visits to RBSs major key regulatory & supervisory policy developments.
businesses and functions and meetings with directors and senior management.
Meetings with external auditors, counsel and The Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel maintains stakeholders are also arranged as appropriate.
An illustrative list continuing professional development logs.
These are reviewed of the meetings arranged during a new directors induction regularly between the Chairman and each director individually, to programme is set out below: assist in identifying future training and development opportunities that are specific to the individual directors requirements.
Chairman Director, Finance Information Chief Executive Chief Accountant All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all Chief Financial Officer Head of RBS Tax relevant matters and have access to the advice and services of Senior Independent Director Chief Human Resources the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel.
In addition, all Other non-executive directors Officer directors are able, if necessary, to obtain independent Chief Governance Officer and Chief Administrative professional advice at the companys expense.
Board Counsel Officer Chief Risk Officer Head of Investor Relations Time commitment Chief Marketing Officer Head of Public Affairs It is anticipated that non-executive directors will allocate sufficient Chief Operating Officer Director of Strategy & time to RBS to discharge their responsibilities effectively and will RBS Treasurer Corporate Development devote such time as is necessary to fulfil their role.
Directors Chief Audit Executive Director of Transformation have been briefed on the limits on the number of other Chief Legal Officer and General Head of Restructuring directorships that they can hold under the requirements of the Counsel Chief Economist fourth Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV.
Each director is Chairmen and CEOs of principal External Auditors required to advise RBS as early as possible and to seek the subsidiaries External Counsel agreement of the Board before accepting additional commitments Franchise Chief Executive Regulators that might affect the time the director is able to devote to his or Officers Institutional Investors her role as a non-executive director of RBS.
The Board monitors Business visits UK and the other commitments of the Chairman and directors and is overseas satisfied that they are able to allocate sufficient time to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The The directors have access to a wide range of briefing and training time commitment currently required of our non-executive sessions and other professional development opportunities.
directors continues to be significant.
Internal training relevant to the business of RBS is also provided.
Business visits are arranged as part of the Group Audit Election and re-election of directors Committee and Board Risk Committee schedule details of which In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors stand can be found on pages 73 and 80 and all non-executive for election or re-election by shareholders at the companys directors are invited to attend.
Directors undertake the training Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the UK Listing they consider necessary to assist them in carrying out their duties Rules, the election or re-election of independent directors also and responsibilities as directors.
Directors may also request requires approval by a majority of independent shareholders.
individual in-depth briefings from time to time on areas of particular interest.
66 Corporate governance Performance evaluation Key themes In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board Board composition and succession planning takes place every three years.
An internal evaluation takes place The importance of keeping Board and committee composition in the intervening years.
under regular review was highlighted, in order to ensure diversity and an orderly succession as a number of non-executive The 2015 evaluation was conducted externally by a specialist directors approach the end of their tenure with RBS.
board evaluation consultancy and a number of initiatives were implemented aimed at improving the overall performance and Quality of information effectiveness of the Board.
These included the creation of a Paper quality has improved over recent years.
There is scope for Nominations and Governance Committee, adding a governance further enhancement, by continuing to manage paper length and oversight function and streamlining processes and membership: ensuring an appropriate level of detail is shared with the Board.
a range of actions to enhance agenda planning and the Boards Similar issues were raised during the committee evaluations.
overall operating rhythm: and actions to improve alignment between the Board and executives to ensure a consistent tone Focus of agenda from the top.
These themes were taken forward during 2016 The balance of the Board agenda tends towards legacy and under an action plan, are being appropriately addressed and will internal issues, which reflects the current climate.
However, it is be kept under regular review as a matter of good practice.
also important to ensure continued focus on forward-looking and strategic discussions.
In 2016, the Board and committee evaluation process was conducted internally by the Chief Governance Officer and Board Non-executive director time commitment Counsel.
Non-executive director time commitment remains significant.
This is largely due to the number of extraordinary items which Performance evaluation process require to be considered by the Board in the current environment.
The Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation by: Customers and culture preparing surveys that were completed by each director and The Sustainable Banking Committee has played a key role in holding interviews with each director: customer and culture issues, however the directors would discussing the key themes and recommendations for action welcome greater Board focus on these priorities.
with the Chairman: and recommending the key themes and proposed actions to the Proposed actions Board.
Recommendations arising out of the 2016 evaluation have been carefully considered by the Board.
An action plan has been Outcomes of the 2016 performance evaluation agreed for 2017 and key actions include: The 2016 performance evaluation concluded that the Board was Ensuring board & committee composition and succession strong and operated effectively and within its terms of reference.
plans are kept under regular review, to be led by the Group Nominations and Governance Committee.
Key strengths identified included the following: Refreshing Board and committee paper templates and The Chairman provides strong leadership to the Board and guidance, to ensure consistency across the Board and has settled into the role well.
committees in relation to paper length and content.
The Board works well together to create effective debate Ensuring Board time is appropriately allocated in response and challenge, and provides effective oversight and to evaluation feedback, to facilitate the effective use of nonchallenge to management.
The Boards composition has been strengthened during Further developing the Boards role on culture, to include 2016 by the appointments of Mr Rogers and Mr Dangeard.
consideration of how Board time is spent on actions to drive The quality of information received by the Board continues cultural change.
The Boards committees operated effectively within their In addition, a list of 2017 priorities for the Board was prepared terms of reference throughout the year, providing valuable following evaluation feedback and has been factored into the support to the Board.
2017 agenda planning process, as appropriate.
A summary of the key themes arising from the 2016 performance Individual director and Chairman effectiveness reviews evaluation is set out below, together with an overview of the key The Chairman met with each director individually to discuss their actions proposed: own performance and ongoing professional development and also shared peer feedback provided as part of the evaluation process.
Separately, the Senior Independent Director sought feedback on the Chairmans performance from the non-executive directors, executive directors and key external stakeholders and discussed it with the Chairman.
67 Corporate governance Relations with investors Throughout the year, the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective Financial Officer and Chairman of the Group Performance and communication with shareholders.
The company communicates Remuneration Committee communicate shareholder feedback to with shareholders through the Annual Report and Accounts and the Board.
The directors also receive reports reviewing share by providing information in advance of the Annual General price movements and performance against the sector.
Individual shareholders can raise matters relating to market and shareholder feedback is provided to the Board after their shareholdings and the business of RBS at any time major public announcements such as a results release.
The throughout the year by letter, telephone or email via rbs.
arrangements in place are to ensure that directors develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders and that these Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions at the are considered as part of the annual Board evaluation.
Annual General Meeting and any General Meetings held or can submit written questions in advance.
The Senior Independent The Investor Relations programme also includes communications Director and the chairmen of the Board committees are available aimed specifically at its fixed income debt investors.
The Chief to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Financial Officer and or the RBS Treasurer give regular presentations to fixed income investors to discuss strategy and Communication with the company's largest institutional financial performance.
There is also a separate section on the shareholders is undertaken as part of the Investor Relations RBS website for fixed income investors which includes programme: information on credit ratings, securitisation programmes and the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet securities documentation.
Further information is available at regularly with UKFI, the organisation set up to manage the rbs.
Governments investments in financial institutions, to discuss the strategy and financial performance of the business.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer also undertake an extensive annual programme of meetings with the companys largest institutional shareholders: the Chairman independently meets with RBSs largest institutional shareholders annually to hear their feedback on management, strategy, business performance and corporate governance.
Additionally, the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and chairmen of the Board committees met with the governance representatives of a number of institutional shareholders during the year: the Senior Independent Director is available if any shareholder has concerns that they feel are not being addressed through the normal channels: and the Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee consults extensively with major shareholders in respect of the Groups remuneration policy.
68 Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee Letter from Howard Davies Membership and meetings Chairman of the Group Nominations and Governance The Group Nominations and Governance Committee is Committee comprised of the Chairman of the Board and four independent non-executive directors, which is consistent with the findings of last years recommendation.
The Committee holds at least four scheduled meetings per year and also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
In 2016, there were four Group Nominations and Governance Committee meetings and individual attendance by directors at these meetings is shown in the table below.
Attended scheduled Howard Davies Chairman 4 4 Sandy Crombie 4 4 Alison Davis 4 4 Dear Shareholder, Robert Gillespie 4 4 As Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Group Brendan Nelson 4 4 Nominations and Governance Committee I am pleased to present our report on the committee's activity during 2016.
Consideration of new non-executive directors Role and responsibilities As previously advised, JCA Group has been engaged to support The Group Nominations and Governance Committee was the search for new non-executive directors.
The search and constituted in January 2016 and assumed the responsibilities of nominations process has been streamlined, including by the previous Group Nominations Committee to review the establishment of this Committee.
The Committee has also structure, size and composition of the Board, and membership considered by reference to peer institutions the significant time and chairmanship of Board Committees.
In addition, the commitment required of the Groups non-executive directors and Committee monitors the Groups governance arrangements to how this might be reduced to make the position accessible to a ensure that best corporate governance standards and practices larger pool of candidates.
JCA group does not provide search are upheld and considers developments relating to banking services to any other part of RBS.
reform and analogous issues affecting the Group in the markets where it operates.
The Committee makes recommendations to During 2016, the Committee considered a number of potential the Board in respect of any consequential amendments to the candidates and in May 2016, Frank Dangeard was appointed to Groups operating model.
the Board as a non-executive director.
The Committee engages with external consultants, considers The Committee has overseen the establishment of the Groups potential candidates and recommends appointments of new Technology Advisory Board, which was constituted on 1 directors to the Board.
December 2016 with a remit to provide an external lens to RBSs innovation and technology agenda including consideration of The terms of reference of the Group Nominations and driving a resilient, simple and efficient technology environment.
Governance Committee are reviewed annually, approved by the Board and are available at rbs.
In addition to appointments to the Board and subsidiary appointments being required to specifically comply with ringPrincipal activity during 2016 fencing legislation, the Committee has also overseen the As highlighted in the Boards 2015 performance review, the process for the appointment of a new chairman for Ulster Bank Committee acknowledges the tenure of a number of the current Ireland DAC.
Board directors and therefore made succession planning a priority in 2016.
Tenure of non-executive directors The tenure of non-executive directors is set out below.
In addition to recruitment, the Committee assumed oversight of the process to reach agreement with the PRA in respect of a governance model that adheres to ring-fencing legislation.
Ring- 2016 fencing also gives rise to a requirement to recruit additional non- 0 - 3 years 40% executive directors to the boards of our material regulated 3 - 6 years 30% subsidiaries, which the Committee has also been overseeing.
6 years 30% 100% The Committee has spent time considering the Groups arrangements in respect of legal entity governance.
This work is ongoing and is complementary to the Groups preparations for the implementation of ring-fencing legislation.
69 Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee Board and Committee membership The gender diversity of the Board is set out below.
As previously mentioned, Frank Dangeard joined the Board as a 2016 non-executive director on 16 May 2016 and was subsequently Female 25% appointed to the Board Risk Committee on 4 August 2016.
Frank Male 75% has substantial Board level experience across a number of 100% sectors, including technology, telecom and financial services.
His change management and transformation experience are a real asset to the Board.
The Board operates a boardroom diversity policy and a copy of the Boards diversity statement is available on rbs.
The Committee recommended in February 2016 that the CIB Board Oversight Committee should be discontinued, due to its RBS understands the importance of diversity and, with regard to remit having been superseded.
gender diversity, recognises the importance of women having greater representation at key decision making points in Performance evaluation organisations.
The search for Board candidates will continue to The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior be conducted, and nominations appointments made, with due Committees, including the Group Nominations and Governance regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
However, all Committee, was conducted internally in 2016.
The Committee appointments to the Board are ultimately based on merit, has considered and discussed the outcomes of this evaluation measured against objective criteria, and the skills and experience and accepts the findings.
Overall the review concluded that the the individual can bring to the Board.
Group Nominations and Governance Committee operated The balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and effectively.
However, certain recommendations for action were diversity on the Board, and how the Board operates together as a recognised including the need to: regularly engage with the unit is reviewed annually as part of the Board evaluation.
Where external search firm to provide clarity and guidance on RBSs appropriate, findings from the evaluation will be considered in the recruitment requirements: and rebalance the agenda of the search, nomination and appointment process.
If appropriate, Committee to ensure greater focus on strategic issues, including additional targets on diversity will be developed in due course.
director performance and board and senior management succession.
Further details on RBSs approach to diversity can be found on pages 118 and 119.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board and the Committee will track progress during the year.
Howard Davies Chairman of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee Boardroom diversity 23 February 2017 The Board currently meets the target of 25 per cent female board representation as set out in Lord Davies 2011 report on women on Boards.
We acknowledge the updated targets published in the Hampton Alexander and Parker reports and will continue to consider the implications for RBS during 2017.
70 Report of the Group Audit Committee Letter from Brendan Nelson, The GAC also considered significant developments in relation to Chairman of the Group Audit Committee financial reporting to ensure that RBS is well prepared for legal and regulatory changes which impact its financial results and disclosures.
In particular, the GAC has overseen the preparatory The first priority work relating to the introduction of IFRS 9 which will take effect of the Group on 1 January 2018.
Audit Committee is to ensure the In relation to the Annual Report and Accounts, the GAC carefully integrity and considered the viability report and the fair, balanced and quality of RBSs understandable statement, including the processes which financial support them.
The directors are required to make these statements statements in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Dear Shareholder, Systems of internal control RBS continues to work on the improvement of its control Throughout 2016 RBS has continued to progress its plan to build environment, which is key to making RBS a safer and more a strong, simple, fair bank for customers and shareholders and secure bank.
However, the level of change RBS is undergoing the Group Audit Committee GAC has supported this through the presents significant challenges and RBSs operational risk profile review and consideration of RBSs financial reports and remains heightened.
The GAC oversees the arrangements for disclosures.
This report also sets out the key areas of focus for RBSs systems of Internal Control relating to financial reporting.
I am pleased to confirm that the GAC During 2016 the GAC received quarterly updates from Internal operated effectively during 2016, as was confirmed by the annual Audit detailing Internal Audits control ratings for RBSs evaluation process, details of which are also set out below.
The GAC also received bi-annual updates on the control environment certification process and the Accounting and financial reporting material operational risk events which are notified to RBSs The first priority of the GAC is to ensure the integrity and quality senior management, executives and non-executive directors.
of RBSs financial statements, including its quarterly, interim and full year results and its annual report and accounts.
During 2016 During 2016 RBS made good progress in developing its the GAC spent considerable time reviewing and discussing operational risk management framework with the roll-out of bankRBSs financial results in detail, and challenging the material wide risk appetite statements for its most material risks, this judgements proposed by management, before recommending included financial reporting risk appetite which was considered by them to the Board for approval.
RBS has also developed end to end risk and control assessment for material processes during 2016, In particular, during 2016 the GAC considered judgements and the resulting actions to improve and enhance controls will be relating to the recoverability of deferred tax assets, the carrying taken forward during 2017: this process will be overseen by the value of goodwill, provisions for litigation and conduct charges, Board Risk Committee with the GAC focusing on those aspects loan impairment provisions and the fair value of financial impacting financial reporting.
The drive to achieve satisfactory instruments.
Additionally, in the stand-alone parent company controls will benefit from the bank-wide programme to enhance accounts, the GAC considered judgements relating to the risk culture, with its focus on encouraging a proactive approach to carrying value of RBSGs investment in subsidiaries.
risk and a more open and challenging environment.
There were also a number of developments during 2016 which External audit required the GACs scrutiny from a disclosure perspective.
The A priority for the GAC during 2016 was to oversee a change of divestment of Williams & Glyn was an important issue during the external auditors.
Ernst &Young EY assumed the role of 2016 and the GAC was fully engaged on this issue in order to RBSs new auditors in March 2016, having been successful in the ensure that all developments and risks were transparently tender process run in 2014. disclosed to the market.
RBS also continues to work through a number of litigation and conduct issues which the GAC has On behalf of the GAC, I would like to thank the outgoing external carefully considered in order to ensure its disclosures remain auditors, Deloitte LLP, for their hard work over many years and accurate and up to date.
for their professionalism in ensuring an orderly and smooth handover to EY.
The implications of the EU referendum and subsequent developments in the macro economic environment were an The external auditors have attended each meeting of the GAC in important area of focus for RBS in the second half of 2016.
The 2016 and have provided the GAC with quarterly reports and ad GAC received reports on the implications for the credit hoc updates on specific topics as required.
I am pleased to environment which it has considered in the context of RBSs confirm that the 2016 evaluation of the external auditor found that disclosures and financial reports.
This will remain an area of EY were performing the audit of RBS effectively.
The Market Abuse Regulation took effect in July 2016.
The GAC reviewed and discussed the implications for RBSs disclosures and the processes RBS has implemented to ensure compliance with these regulations.
71 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key priorities for 2017 Moving into 2017 the GAC will continue its focus on RBSs accounting and financial reporting.
The GAC will continue to consider developments in accounting policy and regulations impacting RBS, including IFRS 9 in particular.
The impact of developments in the macro economic environment on the credit portfolio and financial results will also remain a priority, as will the Control Environment and the GAC will continue to monitor these throughout 2017.
Accounting issues and disclosures relating to legacy litigation and conduct issues are also expected to be an important area of attention during 2017 as had been demonstrated by the provision RBS announced on 26 January 2017 in relation to RMBS litigation and investigations.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow GAC members for their continued support and focus during 2016.
Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 23 February 2017 72 Report of the Group Audit Committee Report of the Group Audit Committee Meetings and visits Membership The GAC held seven scheduled meetings during 2016, four of The Group Audit Committee GAC is comprised of the following which were held immediately prior to the submission of the four independent non-executive directors.
quarterly financial statements to the Board.
The GAC also Attended convened three ad hoc meetings to consider: scheduled the trading statement issued in January 2016: Brendan Nelson Chairman 7 7 documentation relating to disclosures in the 2015 Annual Sandy Crombie 7 7 Report and Accounts: and Morten Friis 7 7 disclosure issues relating to the H1 2016 results, including Baroness Noakes 7 7 the developments on Payment Protection Insurance.
Brendan Nelson, Morten Friis and Baroness Noakes are also During 2016, in conjunction with members of the Board Risk members of the Board Risk Committee.
Sandy Crombie is Committee, members of the GAC took part in an annual Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration programme of visits to businesses and control functions in order Committee.
Brendan Nelson and Sandy Crombie are also to gain a deeper understanding of the risks and issues they face.
members of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee.
This programme comprised two visits to Risk and Restructuring: This cross committee membership helps facilitate effective Conduct and Regulatory Affairs and Internal Audit plus visits to: governance across all finance, risk and compensation issues.
It Personal & Business Banking: Commercial & Private Banking: also helps to ensure that agendas are aligned and that overlap of NatWest Markets formerly CIB : Capital Resolution, Services: responsibilities is avoided where possible.
The members of GAC are selected with a view to the expertise Allocation of Group Audit Committee agenda time during 2016 and experience of the GAC as a whole and with proper regard for was as follows: the key issues and challenges facing RBS.
The Board is satisfied that all GAC members have recent and Financial affairs of the group 39% relevant financial experience and that each member of the GAC Standards of internal control 21% is independent as defined in the SEC rules under the US Internal audit 13% Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange Act and External audit 9% related guidance.
The Board has further determined that Brendan Regulatory relationships and Nelson, Committee Chairman, and Baroness Noakes are both compliance 13% financial experts for the purposes of compliance with the Governance and procedural 5% Exchange Act Rules and the requirements of the New York Stock Total 100% Exchange, and that they have competence in accounting and auditing as required under the Disclosure Guidance and Performance evaluation Transparency Rules.
Full biographical details of GAC members The performance of the GAC is evaluated annually, and at least are set out on pages 59 to 61. once every three years is facilitated by an external party.
Following an externally facilitated evaluation in 2015, the During 2016 GAC meetings were attended by the Chief evaluation of the GACs performance in 2016 was conducted Executive and Chief Financial Officer: the Group Chairman: the internally.
The evaluation process involved the completion of Internal and External Auditors: and Finance, Legal and Risk questionnaires by both GAC members and members of Management executives.
Other executives, subject matter management and follow up interviews to discuss the findings.
experts and external advisers were also invited to attend, as The Board and the GAC have considered and discussed the required, to present and advise on reports commissioned by the outcomes of this evaluation.
Overall the review concluded that GAC.
The GAC also met privately with the external auditors and the GAC continued to operate effectively.
A number of separately with Internal Audit management.
recommendations for improvement were made which were approved by the GAC and the Board: progress against these will Purpose of the Group Audit Committee be tracked in 2017.
The GACs responsibilities are set out in more detail in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Committee and approved by the Board.
These are available on: rbs.
73 Report of the Group Audit Committee Matters considered by the Committee in 2016 Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee Financial affairs of the Group Accounting The Group Audit Committee focused on a number of salient judgements and reporting issues in the preparation of judgements and the financial results throughout 2016, including the quarterly, half year and full year results and the Annual Report reporting issues and Accounts.
In particular, the Committee considered, discussed and, where appropriate, challenged: considered in the preparation of provision and disclosure for ongoing regulatory and litigation actions including: Payment Protection Insurance financial reports claims, RMBS investigations and litigation, UK shareholder actions, the FCAs investigation into RBSs former Global Restructuring Group, the Central Bank of Irelands review of Irish tracker mortgages and investigations into alleged foreign exchange rate manipulation.
During 2016 RBS has recognised 5.9 billion of litigation and conduct provisions: the adequacy of loan impairment provisions, focusing in particular on judgements and methodology applied to provisions.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall loan impairment provisions and underlying assumptions and methodologies were reasonable and applied consistently: valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments carried at fair value including RBSs credit market exposures and own liabilities assessed at fair value: judgements made by management in relation to the carrying value of intangible assets.
In particular, in light of changes to economic forecasts, the GAC considered whether any adjustments were required to the carrying value of goodwill and of RBSs investment in subsidiaries within the stand-alone parent company accounts: in its Q3 2016 results RBSG reduced the carrying value of its investment in subsidiaries by 6.0 billion to 44.7 billion in light of the deterioration in the economic outlook.
The GAC also challenged the processes and the models used to asses the value of these assets: judgements made by management in assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, in light of continued execution of the RBSs strategy and changes to the UK corporate tax system.
A 300 million impairment of deferred tax assets was recognised in RBSs Q3 2016 results: managements assessment of the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, and identified deficiencies.
Remediation of identified weaknesses in relation to privileged access controls for certain IT applications and in relation to legal entity recharge accounting for the allocation of ATM fees was monitored and tracked by the GAC during 2016: the quality and transparency of financial and risk disclosures: the viability statement in the 2016 report and accounts.
The GAC considered the process to support the assessment of principal risks: assessed the companys prospects in the light of its current position and the identified principal risks: selected the time period to be covered by the statement: and reviewed the disclosure on behalf of the Board: the going concern basis of accounting including consideration of evidence of RBSs capital, liquidity and funding position.
The GAC supported the directors going concern conclusion.
Further information is set out on page 119: and the comprehensive review process which supports the GAC and the Board in reaching the conclusion that the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The review process included: central co-ordination of the annual report and accounts by the Director of Finance with guidance on requirements being provided to individual contributors: review of the annual report and accounts by the Executive Disclosure Committee prior to consideration by the GAC: and a management certification process which required members of the Executive Committee and other senior executives to provide confirmation following their review of the annual report and accounts that they considered them to be fair, balanced and understandable.
This process was also undertaken in respect of the half year and quarterly results announcements.
The External Auditor also considered the Boards statement as part of its audit requirements.
Having considered the above, the Committee recommended the quarterly, interim and full year results announcements and the Annual Report and Accounts to the Board for approval.
74 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee Standards of internal control Annual Risk and The GAC considered the effectiveness of RBSs internal control system, including any significant failings or Control report weaknesses.
The Williams & Glyn divestment programme and the NatWest Markets control environment were both identified as weaknesses, these have both been closely monitored and reviewed by the Board Risk Committee and are discussed further in the report of the Board Risk Committee.
The GAC also considered RBSs disclosure on internal control matters in conjunction with the related guidance from the Financial Reporting Council.
Control The GAC considered the outputs of bi-annual self-assessments of the robustness of the internal control Environment environment for RBSs customer-facing businesses, and its support and control functions.
This informs the control Certification environment disclosure in the annual report and accounts.
The GAC reviewed work undertaken on the banks integrated risk assessment approach which is designed to Integrated Risk provide a single approach to the assessment of risk mind sets and behaviours and risk capabilities, leading to Assessment a more effective and simplified approach to the assessment of risk culture, the three lines of defence and Approach performance assessments.
Whistleblowing The GAC received updates on whistleblowing activity and the performance of RBSs whistleblowing service.
It monitored the effectiveness of the whistleblowing framework and enquired as to any trends or themes.
It also received updates on communications and awareness activity relating to whistleblowing and testing of the framework.
The GAC was also advised of the actions RBS has taken to ensure compliance with the new FCA and PRA whistleblowing regulations which applied to RBS from 7 September 2016.
In March 2016 the GAC Chairman was appointed as Whistleblowing Champion for RBS, in line with the requirements outlined in the PRA and FCA regulations: this role carries the responsibility for ensuring and overseeing the integrity, independence and effectiveness of the firms whistleblowing arrangements.
Ledger The GAC received updates in relation to the delivery of the new general ledger, the introduction of which has been Transformation overseen by the GAC.
The new ledger replaces previous legacy systems and supports new functionality such as Programme discrete legal entity views and multi-currency accounting on a single ledger platform.
The GAC was provided with updates on the recommended actions and plans to deliver the programme and the key risks and challenges it presented.
Taxation The GAC reviewed RBSs tax position, including a deep dive on Tax in October 2016 which covered: the structure of the Tax team, Tax Risk within the Risk Management Framework, material tax risks and disputes, UK Corporate tax compliance, deferred tax assets, VAT risks and challenges, external tax developments and the key projects on which the tax team are engaged.
Litigation and The GAC considered regular reports on most significant legal risks and developments affecting RBS, including Regulation relevant updates on ongoing major litigation and investigations, privacy and competition issues, legal risks within structural reform and recovery and resolution planning, as well as material emerging legal risks and or changes in law or regulation and any recent provisions and settlements or recoveries.
Key themes and observations from RBSs Sensitive Investigations Unit were also highlighted to the GAC.
Notifiable Event The GAC received bi-annual reports on control breaches which are captured by RBSs notifiable event process.
Process Process-related errors were the main root cause of Major notifiable events escalated in 2016.
Throughout 2016 senior management has actively promoted an open culture around raising GNEPs and regularly reinforced that these are integral in helping the banks employees learn from their mistakes.
Under this process all Board directors were alerted to the most significant breaches.
Fraud The GAC reviewed managements processes for identifying and responding to the risk of fraud.
Sarbanes-Oxley The GAC considered RBSs compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and was Act of 2002 satisfied in this respect.
RBS had no Material Weaknesses as at 31 December 2016, however Significant Deficiencies were identified relating to legal entity recharge arrangements and action is being taken by Management to improve these processes.
The GAC has also overseen RBSs drive to continue to improve its SOX processes.
75 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee Systems of internal control Market Abuse The GAC considered the impact of the Market Abuse Regulation which took effect in July 2016.
The GAC noted Regulation the main changes to disclosure requirements and the processes implemented by RBS to address these.
This included the establishment of a sub-committee of the executive disclosure committee to consider potential instances of inside information, including whether there are any grounds for delaying disclosure under the Market Abuse Regulation, and escalate these as required to the GAC and Board.
Internal audit Reports and The GAC received quarterly reports and opinions from Internal Audit throughout 2016.
These reports and opinions Opinions updated the GAC on the effectiveness of the governance, risk management and internal control framework, ongoing issues and the adequacy of remediation activity.
The full year and half year reports included Internal Audits opinion in relation to RBSs Risk & Control Environment and its Risk & Control Awareness.
Internal Audit are now using the new simplified bank-wide risk and control rating metrics, which came into effect on 1 January 2016.
The new metrics align the way RBS assesses its risks and controls across the first, second and third lines of defence.
The GAC received updates on managements response to Internal Audits findings and challenged management as to progress on remediating such findings.
Annual Plan and The GAC considered and approved Internal Audits plan for 2017, which is focused on the highest risks faced by Budget RBS.
The GAC also considered Internal Audits budget and was satisfied that this was sufficient to allow Internal Audit to deliver the plan.
Internal Audit Updates to Internal Audits charter, to reflect changes in reporting structures and amendments to the Institute of Charter Internal Auditors International Standards, were approved by the GAC and the GAC confirmed the independence of Internal Audit.
Visits During two visits to Internal Audit in 2016, the GAC received updates on a variety of issues impacting the internal audit function, including: resourcing, bench strength, risk mindset and behaviours, strategic priorities, use of data analytics and internal quality assurance.
Chief Audit The Chief Audit Executive continued to report to the Chairman of the GAC, with a secondary reporting line to the Executive Chief Executive for administrative purposes.
The GAC assessed the annual performance including risk performance of the Chief Audit Executive.
Annual The annual review of effectiveness of Internal Audit was undertaken internally in 2016.
Under the evaluation Evaluation process feedback on Internal Audit was provided by GAC members and attendees including the external auditors, chairmen of subsidiary audit committees, key members of business risk committees and other key members of management.
The evaluation concluded that Internal Audit had operated effectively during the year.
Certain recommendations were made to aid continuous improvement within the function: these will be implemented during 2017 and progress will be tracked by the GAC.
Relationship with regulators Regulatory The GAC received a report on the status of RBSs relationships with its key regulators, the status of regulatory Relationships, reviews, including any reviews at risk of potential enforcement action in 2016, and key upstream risk Risk of developments.
The GAC Chairman also attended continuous assessment meetings with the PRA and FCA, Enforcement and meetings with the Bank of England and other audit committee chairmen and trilateral meetings with the PRA and Upstream Risk external auditor.
External audit Transition of The GAC supervised the transition of the external auditor from Deloitte to EY during 2016 with EY assuming the auditors role of external auditor for RBS at the end of March 2016.
The Board will recommend the appointment of EY as external auditor to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
External Audit Jon Bourne has been EYs lead audit partner for RBS since EY assumed the role of external auditor in March Reports 2016.
Jon Bourne attends each meeting of the GAC and reports to the GAC on the external auditors observations and conclusions from the year-end audit and half-year review of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and National Westminster Bank Plc, work in connection with the Q1 and Q3 financial results and any recommendations for enhancements to RBSs reporting and controls.
Audit Plan and The GAC received updates in relation to the external auditors 2016 plan and approved the 2016 audit fees fees including the fee for the 2016 interim results.
The GAC was authorised by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to fix the remuneration of the external auditors.
76 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee External audit Annual Evaluation The GAC conducted an internal evaluation to assess the independence and objectivity of the external auditor during 2016.
This review included an evaluation of the effectiveness of the audit process and sought the views of the GAC members, attendees and other key members of management.
Regard was had to the external auditors mindset and culture, skills, character and knowledge, quality control and judgement.
The evaluation concluded that the external auditor was operating effectively.
A number of recommendations for continuous improvement were identified which the external auditor has agreed to take forward during 2017.
Following the evaluation the GAC recommended that the Board seek the reappointment of EY as external auditor at the next annual general meeting.
CASS Opinions At the GACs request the external auditor presented the results of its assurance procedures on compliance with the FCAs Client Asset Rules for RBSs regulated legal entities for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The GAC also considered the CASS Audit plan for 2017, the findings of which will be reported to the GAC once the audit is complete.
External Audit The GAC considered the dry run report to the PRA by the external auditor for the 2015 year end.
The report Report to the PRA responded to specific questions posed by the PRA.
This report was produced in preparation for implementation of auditor reporting for the largest UK banks which is required for 2016 year ends, in line with the proposals set out in PRA consultation paper CP8 15.
Audit and non-audit services Non-audit To help safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the GAC maintains a policy that sets services policy out the circumstances in which the external auditor is permitted to supply audit and non-audit services.
EY were appointed RBSs external auditors in March 2016 but they have been subject to the policy since becoming independent from RBS in 2015 in the lead up to their appointment.
The GAC reviews the non-audit services policy at least annually to ensure it remains fit for purpose.
During 2016 the GAC approved a number of amendments to the policy to ensure it met the requirements of the EU Audit Regulation and also to streamline to operation of the policy.
In accordance with the policy, all audit services and permitted non-audit services are approved in advance.
Under the policy certain services are classed as Audit-Related Services and these may be approved by the Director of Finance, on behalf of the GAC, up to a limit of 100,000 each financial quarter.
Engagements for Audit-Related Services in excess of this quarterly limit require the approval of the GAC Chairman.
All AuditRelated Services are reported to the GAC quarterly.
The GAC has also delegated authority to the Director of Finance to approve the provision of services by the external auditor to non-consolidated subsidiaries of RBS within an annual cap and to approve engagements with the external auditor where RBS has limited or no influence in the selection process.
All such engagements are reported to the GAC each quarter.
For all other permitted non-audit service engagements, where the fee is below 5,000 approval by the Director of Finance is required.
Where the fee is above 5,000 but below 100,000 approval by the GAC Chairman is required.
For engagements where the fee is expected to exceed 100,000 a competitive tender process must be held and approval of the full GAC is required.
In addition all engagements must be approved by the Director of Finance and by Supply Chain Services.
All such ad hoc approvals of non-audit services are ratified by the GAC each quarter.
77 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee Audit and non-audit services Non-audit During 2016, the current and previous external auditors were approved to undertake the significant engagements Services Policy set out below whilst in the role of external auditor: Deloitte were engaged to prepare an audit opinion, required by the PRA confirming the level of asset run down in RBS Capital Resolution, taking into accounting outstanding liabilities indemnities to any disposed asset: details of any residual assets and how these will be managed following the closure of RBS Capital Resolution: and details of any ongoing obligations RBS will have to any disposed assets: Deloittes role as Reporting Accountant for Williams & Glyn was extended, to permit them to prepare a financial fact pack to support the trade sale marketing of Williams & Glyn: Deloitte were engaged to support Williams & Glyn with validation, review, quality assurance and documentation activities in relation to Williams and Glyns capital stress plan: Deloitte were engaged to support the first phase of a Central Bank of Ireland mandated investigation into tracker mortgages in Ulster Bank RoI.
This first phase comprised the development and submission of a detailed plan for conducting the investigation and ensuring that appropriate governance was in place: EY were engaged to review historical and prospective financial information for certain parts of the business: EY were engaged to provide an assurance opinion for an information request from the European Commission in connections with its competition investigation into pre-2012 FX currency trading: and EY were engaged to audit the control environment and control objectives for RBS and Ulster Banks internal reporting procedures relating to the Scottish & Northern Ireland Banknote Rules 2011 and the Note Circulation Scheme Rules, as required by the Bank of England.
The decision to approve the engagement of the external auditor for the services noted above was due to factors including synergies and efficiencies relating to the audit work, their existing knowledge of RBS which allowed work to commence quickly and with minimal disruption and the benefits in maintaining consistency between similar engagements.
In each case the GAC was satisfied that the engagement did not impact the external auditors independence.
Although RBSs previous external auditors are no longer subject to independence requirements, they do have an ongoing role to consent to the release of its prior period audit opinions for US reporting purposes statutory and comfort letter related.
Given any requirement to perform additional audit work for historic periods would require previous external auditors to re-establish independence, a number of safeguards relating to their appointment remain in place under the policy, including the requirement for engagements with Deloitte to be approve by the GAC or on its behalf by the Director of Finance depending on the value of the engagement.
Since Deloitte have been removed from independence requirements with these safeguards in place they have been engaged as follows: to provide additional quality assurance over managements assessment of the adequacy of SOX 404 control design and managements testing of the effective operation of SOX 404 controls: as the skilled person to support the Banks ring-fencing programme: in relation to the remediation of the tracker mortgage book in Ulster Bank: to provide resource support to help technology teams to implement and embed a new Technology delivery framework and: to support the second phase of the Central Bank of Ireland mandated investigation into tracker mortgages in Ulster Bank.
This second phase of work involves a review of Ulster Bank Ireland DACs 2001-2015 mortgage loan book in line with the Central Bank of Ireland Framework for Conducting the Tracker Mortgage Examination.
Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and permitted under the policy can be found on rbs.
Information on fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services carried out by the external auditor can be found in Note 5 on the consolidated accounts on page 325.
Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 78 Report of the Board Risk Committee Risk Appetite Letter from Baroness Noakes The banks risk appetite framework provides a structured Chairman of the Board Risk Committee approach to risk taking and the committee reviewed proposed RBS as a whole is on enhancements to the framework prior to Board approval.
We a journey towards a have extended our detailed examination beyond the suite of robust, well managed strategic risks to all material risk categories via a series of in depth reviews of the individual risk appetite statements and control environment related metrics.
These sessions enabled essential preparatory work to be undertaken prior to transitioning to a Board approval framework for these material risks in 2017.
We will continue to supervise closely the maturing risk appetite framework, including remediation where breaches of material risk appetite are identified, in the year ahead.
Dear Shareholder, Stress Testing The bank conducted a number of stress tests in 2016 including The Committee had a challenging programme of risk issues to the European Banking Authority and Bank of England stress tests consider in 2016 and the report that follows provides details of in addition to its own internal stress tests.
The Committee played the topics reviewed and debated by the Committee during the a vital role in reviewing the scenarios and assumptions deployed year.
The Committee reviewed and provided oversight of the risk and in ensuring that the outputs of the tests were subjected to a profile of the bank relative to the banks strategy and risk appetite high degree of scrutiny and challenge.
The Committee also against the backdrop of an economic environment which is oversaw enhancements to the banks stress testing capability challenging for the bank and which was made more uncertain and this will remain a priority in 2017. following the outcome of the EU referendum.
Other Strategic Risk and Transformation Other material areas of Committee focus during the year have The Committee continued to devote considerable attention to the included: demanding bank-wide transformation programme in 2016.
In conduct risk and the oversight of on-going regulatory particular, it considered execution and delivery risk on behalf of investigations and remediation: the Board and monitored the amount of change risk faced by the the capital and liquidity position of RBS and related business.
We focused on the impact of transformation plans on regulatory submissions: the banks control environment and on the control transformation cyber security including the outcome of RBSs participation workstream which is a key part of the overall programme.
End to in a cyber testing initiative led by the Bank of England end risk and control assessments for material processes were CBEST : carried out during 2016 and in 2017 we will be overseeing the risk culture, the three lines of defence model and risk improvement actions which are needed.
The broader cost and performance assessments, now being combined into an control objectives of the transformation programme will continue integrated risk assessment process: and to be a key priority in 2017 and future years.
continued refinements to risk reporting.
Delivery of the Williams & Glyn separation programme remained Key priorities for 2017 a significant area of focus of the Committee in the first half of the The bank has made significant advances this year towards its year.
In light of the delivery challenges, the Board decided to goal of becoming a stronger, simpler and fairer bank.
However, change its strategic direction and the committee subsequently while progress has been made, more work is required before the focused on the wind-down of the programme.
bank will be operating fully within risk appetite and the Committee As the year progressed, increasing agenda time was devoted to will keep this under review in 2017.
In the coming year the the implementation of the banks ring-fencing programme as the Committee will also continue to oversee the work being carried programme moved from the design phase into the execution out under the banks significant change programmes and the phase.
The Committee reviewed the revised baseline plan before impact of those initiatives on the risk profile of the bank.
Other submission to the regulator and oversaw the development of an areas of focus of the Committee will include cyber risk, IT integrated assurance programme for the project involving Risk, resilience and assessing the impact of external factors on the Internal Audit and external third party assurance.
I would like to conclude by welcoming Frank Dangeard to the Control Environment Committee and by thanking my fellow Committee members for RBS as a whole is on a journey towards a robust, well-managed their continued support and diligence throughout the year.
I control environment and the Committee reviews the control would also like to extend my gratitude to Robert Gillespie, who ratings of significant business areas twice a year.
Challenges are stood down as a member in August, for his valuable contribution.
greatest within the banks NatWest Markets formerly CIB franchise and we reviewed managements plans to strengthen Baroness Noakes substantively its control environment and address known Chairman of the Board Risk Committee weaknesses.
We will oversee the effective delivery of those 23 February 2017 plans, relying in particular on more detailed challenge in the second line of defence.
79 Report of the Board Risk Committee Report of the Board Risk Committee In 2016, members of the BRC, in conjunction with members of The role and responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee the Group Audit Committee, undertook a programme of visits to The Board Risk Committee BRC assumes responsibility on focus on various businesses and control functions including bibehalf of the Board to provide oversight of current and potential annual visits to Risk and C&RA.
The purpose and scope of this risk exposures and future risk strategy, including the programme is discussed in detail in the Report of the Group Audit determination of risk appetite and tolerance, and to promote a Committee above.
culture of risk awareness within RBS.
The BRC also held in-depth sessions on risk reporting and the The BRCs responsibilities are set out in more detail in its terms legal entity framework and associated capital requirements.
of reference which are reviewed annually by the BRC and approved by the Board.
These are available on RBSs website: Performance Evaluation rbs.
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior Committees, including the Board Risk Committee, was conducted internally in 2016.
The BRC has considered and discussed the Membership The Board Risk Committee comprises independent nonoutcomes of this evaluation and accepts the findings.
Details of the skills and experience of each of review concluded that the Board Risk Committee continued to the BRC members are set out in their biographies on pages 59 to operate effectively.
However, certain recommendations for action were recognised including the need to: rebalance the agenda of 61.
Attended the BRC to ensure sufficient focus on the most pertinent risks scheduled and reduce the length of meetings: place more reliance on Baroness Noakes Chairman 9 9 executive committees to reduce pressure on the BRC agenda: Frank Dangeard 1 3 3 and hold Executives to account for sign-posting key issues and Morten Friis 9 9 escalating a unified position from all three lines of defence.
Penny Hughes 9 9 Brendan Nelson 9 9 The review included a small number of general recommendations which are relevant for both the Board and its senior committees.
Former Members Key themes and actions arising from these general Robert Gillespie 2 6 6 recommendations are set out in the Board report on page 67 and will be considered, and addressed as appropriate, at Board level.
Notes: 1 Appointed to the committee on 4 August 2016.
2 Stood down from the committee on 4 August 2016.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board and the BRC will track progress on its 2017 priorities during the Brendan Nelson is chairman of the Group Audit Committee of year.
which Baroness Noakes and Morten Friis are also members.
Penny Hughes is chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee.
This common membership across Committees helps Allocation of Board Risk Committee agenda time: to ensure effective governance across the committees.
Current risk profile and issues 26% BRC meetings are also attended by the RBS Chairman, relevant Change agenda and large projects 10% executives, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Process, policies and risk appetite 15% Chief Risk Officer, Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer, Regulatory returns and stress testing 15% Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel and Chief Audit Accountability and remuneration 6% Executive, and the lead partner of the External Auditor.
External Risk, conduct and regulatory affairs focus advice is sought by the BRC, where appropriate.
sessions 13% Franchise and function focus sessions 15% Meetings and visits Total 100% Nine scheduled meetings and six ad hoc meetings were held in 2016.
The ad hoc meetings were required to consider: the results of various phases of internal and external stress tests: the RingFencing Revised Baseline Plan: and the draft budgets and related stress test outputs.
80 Report of the Board Risk Committee Matters considered by the Committee in 2016 Key area Issues considered and Action taken by the BRC Risk Profile Reporting Provided oversight of RBSs risk profile relative to RBSs strategy and risk appetite through the review of emerging risks and changes in RBSs most significant portfolios and operations, as presented within the comprehensive Risk Management Report.
In order to focus on changes in the RBSs risk profile and to highlight trends, the BRC transitioned during the year to taking this report on a quarterly basis.
A short form risk report was considered at all other meetings.
Received oral updates from the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Conduct and Regulatory Affairs Officer on the most current and material risks at each meeting.
This enabled the BRC to discuss RBSs top risks and whether these were being managed effectively: whether RBS was operating within risk appetite: and whether business change was being managed effectively.
Held an in-depth session on risk reporting in October 2016 which led to additional recommendations for refinements to the form and content of reporting.
Management will progress these improvements during 2017.
External Received reports from the Chief Risk Officer at each meeting highlighting external developments with developments the potential to affect RBSs ability to meet its strategic objectives or continue its operations.
This included updates on the global economic environment, including developments in the US, Europe and China and associated impacts on financial markets: regulatory proposals for potential future capital requirements: and preparation for, and the impact of, the EU referendum result.
General Counsels The General Counsel reported to the BRC at each meeting on current and emerging key legal report developments and risk and significant litigation risks affecting RBS.
US Risk Committee Received quarterly reports from the Chairman of the US Risk Committee on the key matters discussed at that forum.
The US Risk Committee was established in May 2016 in response to US regulatory requirements and comprises Morten Friis as Chairman, the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and the RBS Chief Financial Officer.
It provides oversight of the risk management framework of RBSs combined US operations, including the review and approval of US risk management policies and material submissions to US regulators.
Strategic Risk Transformation Kept the execution risk of the RBS-wide transformation programme under review, receiving regular updates from the transformation team on progress, including independent opinions from Risk, C&RA and Internal Audit.
Considered progress against plan and reviewed interdependencies with other significant change programmes and key threats to delivery.
In particular, the impact of the Williams & Glyn programme on transformation was monitored.
Reviewed the impact of 2016 cost reductions and the 2017 budget restrictions on the programme.
Requested focus sessions on the controls transformation workstream, in particular the prioritisation and completion of the Risk and Control Assessments planned in 2016.
A report was received from Internal Audit on the robustness of the assessments and the BRC will oversee managements plans to enhance processes and to remediate control weaknesses identified through completion of the exercise.
Williams & Glyn In Q1 2016, exercised oversight of the risks and challenges to the planned physical separation of assets in advance of the divestment of Williams & Glyn, confirming appropriate governance and assurance processes were in place for the programme.
Received independent reports on progress from Risk and Internal Audit, supplemented by independent third party assurance on progress.
Received updates on the wind-down of the separation programme after the decision of the Board not to proceed with this method of divestment and considered the impact of the decision upon people, costs, records management and security.
Reviewed the impact of the change in strategic direction upon other key deliverables.
Ring-fencing Considered the key risks of the implementation of the ring-fencing programme as it moved from the Implementation plan design phase into execution in H2 2016, including reviewing the revised baseline plan and endorsing its submission to the PRA.
Oversaw the development of an integrated assurance programme involving Risk, Internal Audit and external third party assurance.
81 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Strategic Risk Discussed the change risk profile of RBS and the prioritisation and impact of mandatory change programmes and considered the agreed risk appetite statement and measures used to assess Change Risk change risk across RBS.
Suggested refinements to the processes for assessing change risk and the acceptable volume of change.
Client Pricing for Reviewed the client pricing process against regulatory requirements to ensure that the pricing of Assets and Liabilities liabilities and assets takes into account RBSs business model and risk strategy.
The BRC noted that additional testing would be undertaken and enhancements made to the process.
An annual review will be undertaken in future years.
Enterprise Wide Risk Risk appetite Reviewed the risk appetite governance framework for 2016: provided feedback on the mechanism for managing and escalating breaches of risk appetite: and made suggestions in relation to simplification of the framework, before recommending this to the Board for approval.
Reviewed risk appetite for strategic risks earnings volatility, RBS-wide and functions, funding and equity investors and subject to suggested refinements, recommended this to the Board for approval.
Refreshed governance arrangements for material risks and put in place plans to transition to a Board approval framework for the most significant risks in 2017.
This involved a number of in depth reviews of risk appetite throughout the year in relation to the following risk areas: tax, pensions, records management, payment processing, IT stability & resilience, people, reputational, traded market risk, non-traded market risk, business risk, financial reporting, legal entity risk, operational risk, information and cyber security, retail credit, mortgage risk, wholesale credit, commercial real estate, acquisition risk, settlement risk and conduct risk.
Reviewed the cascade of RBS-wide risk appetite to franchises and functions and the alignment between strategic and material risk appetite statements.
Considered the use of risk capacity being the parameters within which risk appetite is set and agreed risk capacity limits for strategic risks.
Stress testing In Q1 2016, the BRC considered the results of the 2015 budget and forecast stress testing and reviewed Internal Audits planned activity for assessing stress testing in 2016.
During the year, the BRC considered the underlying assumptions and scenario selection for the external Bank of England stress test, including Internal Audits opinion, making recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
Provided challenge and scrutiny to the results of the three phases of the 2016 EBA stress test and the results of the 2016 Bank of England stress test.
Reviewed the results of the reverse stress test and made recommendations to the Board in this regard.
In H2 2016, the BRC considered the 2016 budget and forecast base and stress scenarios together with opinions from the three lines of defence and draft outputs and made recommendations to the Board in this regard.
Oversaw enhancements to RBSs stress testing capability, in particular the remediation actions taken in response to the PRA review of stress testing capability.
Model risk Oversaw the development of a new model risk framework designed to deliver improvements in the framework management of model risk.
This included reviewing progress in remediating areas of identified weaknesses such as model validation and the restructure of model risk management team.
Integrated risk Reviewed work undertaken by RBS to understand its risk culture and approaches to its assessment assessment process against a clearly articulated target culture.
Considered the proposed Integrated Risk Assessment approach which was designed to provide a single approach to the assessment of risk mindsets and behaviours and risk capabilities leading to a more effective and simplified approach to the assessment of risk culture, the three lines of defence and performance assessments.
The BRC reviewed the output of the pilot of the revised approach within certain functions and franchises and Risk.
RDAR Monitored progress towards full compliance with the Basel Principles on Effective Risk Data Aggregation and Reporting RDAR.
Received a report from Internal Audit on material compliance with RDAR principles and oversaw communications with the PRA in this regard.
The BRC will continue to ensure that areas requiring additional improvement are remediated in 2017 alongside plans to achieve full compliance.
82 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and Action taken by the BRC Enterprise Wide Risk Risk Assurance Received quarterly reports on issues highlighted by reviews conducted in each of the three franchises by Credit Quality Assurance, Market Quality Assurance, Control Assurance and a newly created Stress Testing Assurance team.
Market, Credit and Operational Risk Credit, Market and Reviewed RBSs risk profile relative to credit, market and operational risk, and examined detailed Operational risk MI management information MI within the Risk Management report in this regard.
Control Environment Received bi-annual reports on the Control Environment of the franchises and functions and sought Certification managements assurance that appropriate measures were in place to ensure that the businesses could continue to operate safely, where control weaknesses had been identified.
NatWest Markets Reviewed and challenged management plans to remediate and strengthen the conduct and control formerly CIB environment across the NatWest Markets franchise.
Received reports on specific remediation issues and Control Environment control issues including, Trade and Transaction Reporting: Collateral Management Algorithmic Trading Remediation and Intra-Day Risk: IMA waiver and capital implications: and surveillance measures and potential enhancements.
Reviewed managements transformation plans for the business, including how these would impact remediation, mandatory change and the control environment.
Received reports following challenge by the second line of defence and the Technical Executive Risk Forum of managements views of progress against expected outcomes.
Payments Received progress reports in relation to the payments transformation programme, designed to remediate weaknesses in the payments infrastructure and provide a platform to support mandatory change.
Requested updates on compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards and Wire Transfer Regulations WTR and considered an Internal Audit report on WTR compliance.
Resilience, security The BRC received bi-annual reports on security and resilience and requested a separate update on and cyber risk cyber security.
This included a report on the controls and defences in place, an update on improvements identified via RBSs participation in CBEST a cyber testing initiative led by the Bank of England, and a summary of the alignment of the RBSs security policy with the ISO standards.
Material credit Oversaw the Executive Credit Group ECG receiving a summary of the decisions made by the ECG in exposures the period.
Reviewed the most material credit decisions made in 2015 and examined trends in the market.
Approved a revised governance for large credit exposure decisions, designed to enhance the level of BRC and Board oversight.
Other operational The BRC also reviewed reports in relation to: risks the potential risks posed by end of life software: simplification of the RBS Policy Framework.
The BRC requested that greater analysis of the volume of exceptions to policy be undertaken: and data quality.
Following review of progress against a detailed plan, the BRC was pleased to note significant progress in this area.
Capital and Liquidity Risk ICAAP and ILAAP In Q2 2016 the BRC reviewed the draft Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment process ICAAP along with an Internal Audit review and recommended the document to the Board for approval subject to certain enhancements.
In Q3 2016 the BRC reviewed both the scenarios assumptions for the 2016 Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP and the final ILAAP submission and, after due consideration, recommended them to the Board.
Recovery and Oversaw the first part of a two year remediation process in designed to deliver a recovery plan in line Resolution planning with industry best practice.
Examined and commented upon the draft 2016 recovery plan and resolution pack and recommended them to the Board for approval.
Approved the final version of the recovery plan under delegated authority from the Board.
Capital Management Reviewed the progress of the capital management capability enhancement programme.
Received an update on proposed regulatory changes to capital requirements and noted the areas most likely to be impacted and the likely implementation timescales.
83 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and Action taken by the BRC Capital and Liquidity Risk Legal entity control Held a detailed session on the internal finance and risk processes relating to subsidiary legal entities in & risk framework June 2016 and considered an update on the legal entity operating model later in the year, with a particular focus on specific enhancements being developed to improve the robustness of the legal entity control and risk framework.
Supported managements plans to create an RBS-wide programme to build legal entity capability and deliver a coordinated framework focusing on specific legal entity control and assurance requirements.
Conduct, Regulatory and Remediation Representations to Reviewed the assurance and governance in place to support representations to regulators.
Regulators Reviewed attestations requiring Board level approval, including a US Volcker Rule attestation and representations relating to controls in place within the FX business.
Financial Crime Discussed the Group Money Laundering Reporting Officers MLRO Annual Report 2015 and recommended it to the Board.
Other conduct risks The BRC also reviewed reports in relation to: the European Markets Infrastructure and Markets in Financial Instruments regulations: progress to meet the requirements of the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme: RBSs and NatWests compliance with the FCA client assets rules CASS and recommended the reports to the Board for approval: the New Product Risk Assessment NPRA process: complaints performance improvement: and individual regulatory investigations and remediation.
Risk and Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Oversaw the performance and the independence of the Risk and Compliance functions, through undertaking bi-annual visits to Risk and Conduct & Regulatory Affairs during which the BRC considered people and succession planning, budget and the resource capability of both functions.
Received quarterly dashboards of key management information covering headcount, comparisons to budget, high performing staff turnover and outputs of staff surveys.
Assessed the performance of the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer.
Accountability and Remuneration Continued to provide oversight over the risk dimension of performance and remuneration arrangements, working closely with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
The Report of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee on pages 87 to 111 includes further detail on how risk is taken into account in remuneration decisions.
Key matters considered by the BRC included: accountability recommendations in respect of significant material events: the risk and control objectives of members and attendees of the RBSs Executive Committee, with additional focus on underlying objectives for the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer: an assessment of the risk conduct performance of members and attendees of RBSs Executive Committee, with recommendations made to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee as appropriate to inform its decision on pay and awards: an assessment of the risk conduct performance of the RBS and its businesses, with recommendations made to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee to inform its decision on adjustments to the annual bonus pools: performance conditions for the RBSs Long Term Incentive Plans and assessment of proposed vesting levels to ensure risk management conduct performance is fairly reflected in vesting outcomes: and the proposed Executive Director Future Remuneration Policy as detailed on pages 94 to 99 from a risk and control perspective.
Baroness Noakes Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 84 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Letter from Penny Hughes challenging managements efforts on meeting the needs of Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee particular customer groups such as high net worth individuals and small and medium sized enterprises: Our brand strategy ongoing commitment to both internal and external reflects our drive to stakeholder engagement through face to face sessions and build a customer visits to customer facing businesses: focused bank which reviewing our progress on environmental targets: and our people can be reviewing complaint handling and the strategy to identify root cause and resolution.
proud of and our customers trust The efforts to build a responsible and sustainable business are being recognised through independent and external measures.
We retained our place in the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index with our highest score to date 84 and achieved a Dear Shareholder, leadership category listing in the Carbon Disclosure Project Index A-.
The Sustainable Banking Committee SBC is primarily concerned with overseeing, supporting and challenging actions We are also increasingly being recognised as an attractive taken by management to promote RBS as a sustainable employer.
RBS was shortlisted at the 2016 National Diversity business, capable of generating long term value for its Awards as well as being shortlisted for Outstanding Employee stakeholders.
Network Group of the Year in the European Diversity Awards.
We th recently came 13 in Stonewalls top 100 employers, up from nd Despite a challenging year for the Bank in general, we have 32 last year.
made progress on our agenda to build a more sustainable bank.
The SBC continues to focus on culture, customers, people, brand The SBC has also seen tangible evidence of good customer & communications and environmental, social and ethical ESE outcomes.
RBS is the largest lender to small and medium sized issues.
Engagement with management continues to be good and business in the UK and gross lending to our Personal and we have listened, learnt and acted on challenges and ideas from Business Banking customers is up 29% year on year.
Building stakeholders we have spoken to throughout the year.
financial capability remains a focus for RBS with financial health checks available to Personal and Business Banking customers.
Our ambition to be number one for customer service, trust and MoneySense, our flagship financial education programme for 5 advocacy in each of our chosen business areas remains 18 year-olds, also continues to grow.
Raising awareness of the unchanged.
Delivering this ambition depends on our ability to importance of financial education was supported by a NatWest demonstrate beyond question that we are a responsible national advertising campaign last year, along with a new company, that has learnt from the past, doing business in a commitment to reach another one million young people with sustainable way.
We will earn trust by putting customers first, making RBS a great The repositioning of our primary customer brands was a place to work, supporting our communities, and being mindful of significant moment for RBS.
The SBC played a role in overseeing environmental impacts.
and challenging the brand strategy which plays an important role in building a customer focused bank which our people can be Progress made in 2016 includes: proud of and our customers trust.
furthering the integration of sustainable banking into our core businesses and increasing transparency of this with the Over a number of years RBS has experienced a shift by setting integration of our previously separate Sustainability Report out a clear and simple purpose and defining our Values.
We have into the main Annual Report: restructured our business, made progress on our service encouraging the development of the sustainable banking proposition but acknowledge there is more to do, introduced the strategy, meeting the needs of all our stakeholders whilst YES Check and made changes to the way we do some of the aligning with RBSs overall strategy: fundamentals of banking.
The SBC will continue to operate at a overseeing how management is embedding culture and strategic level to support management on its journey to reaching Determined to lead standards within our employee value our ambition to becoming a more sustainable and truly customer proposition: focused bank.
overseeing the brand strategy to reposition Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and Ulster Bank for customers: My thanks go to the SBC members and attendees for their posing and addressing key challenges with management contribution and support through another challenging year.
such as the provision of free banking, supporting enterprise and supporting companies or individuals to seek alternative Penny Hughes finance when RBS is unable to help: Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee 23 February 2017 85 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Performance evaluation The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior Meetings Committees, including the Sustainable Banking Committee, was The Sustainable Banking Committee held six scheduled conducted internally in 2016.
The Committee has considered and Committee meetings in 2016 which were attended by the Chief discussed the outcomes of this evaluation and accepts the Executive, Chairman, senior representatives from the customerfindings.
Overall the review concluded that the Sustainable facing franchises as well as Human Resources, Sustainability, Banking Committee continued to operate effectively.
Risk, Conduct & Regulatory Affairs, Communications & Marketing, and Strategy.
In particular, during 2016 the Committee focused on being more Stakeholder engagement sessions forward looking and strategic with its time, focusing on priorities In addition to ongoing engagement which takes place across our of culture, people, customer, brand & communications and ESE business each day, the Committee has run a proactive issues.
The stakeholder engagement sessions are regarded as a engagement programme since 2011 to which we invite external valuable opportunity to learn how well RBS is aligned to external stakeholders to meet with, and challenge, the most senior sustainability priorities.
During 2017, the Committee will continue decision makers in RBS.
to focus on these priorities, and ensure it undertakes a proactive programme of stakeholder engagement.
We have met with over 50 different groups of NGOs, civil society groups, government bodies, consumer groups and investors in The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board this way and the purpose is to listen and understand where RBS and the Committee will track progress during the year.
These discussions help shape future policies, influence strategic priorities and inform decision making across Role and responsibilities of the Sustainable Banking RBS on our journey to becoming a customer focused bank.
Committee Authority is delegated to the Sustainable Banking Committee by In 2016 we held four such stakeholder engagement sessions the Board and the SBC reports and makes recommendations to covering the following topics: the Board as required.
The terms of reference of the SBC are how to serve and support scale-up, high growth customers available on rbs.
com and these are reviewed annually and beyond start up stage: approved by the Board.
A report on the activities of the SBC in defining the vision of sustainable banking for RBS and fulfilling its responsibilities is provided to the Board following each taking a bolder, more integrated approach to delivering it: meeting.
The principal responsibilities of the SBC are shown financial capability and the key concerns and challenges below: faced by Irish consumers in relation to their personal Culture finances: and receive updates on actions to drive the Board approved what does sustainable banking mean for our culture, our culture: behaviour, our people and our customers?
oversee progress on standards, competence and capability Following the sessions we identify opportunities for follow up and People further engagement.
In December, we welcomed back a number oversee the Employee Value Proposition and initiatives to of our past guests to share the progress made and invited further ensure a diverse workforce which feels clear, capable and challenge and alternative perspectives.
motivated: As part of its programme of stakeholder engagement, members Customer of the SBC undertook a visit to Personal and Business Banking oversee customer centricity priorities and how RBS is which provided valuable insight to the SBC.
There are plans for supporting and engaging with key customer segments: more frontline customer engagement in 2017. oversee progress being made to achieve the long term target of being number one for customer service, trust and advocacy in each of our chosen businesses: Membership The Sustainable Banking Committee comprises four independent Brand & Communications non-executive directors.
The Chairman and members of the SBC, oversee the brand strategy in moving to a bank of brands together with their attendance at meetings, are shown below.
Attended approach focusing on building equity in our customer scheduled brands: Penny Hughes Chairman 6 6 oversee actions being taken by management to manage Alison Davis 6 6 RBSs reputation: Robert Gillespie 6 6 Mike Rogers 1 5 5 ESE Issues Note: receive reports on managing ESE risk: 1 Appointed to the committee on 25 April 2016 consider RBSs environmental footprint and how RBS is operating in its communities: and consider activities being undertaken to support the green economy.
86 Directors Remuneration Page Annual statement from the Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 88 Key features of the new remuneration policy for executive directors 89 Comparison of the current and new remuneration policy for executive directors 90 Questions and answers on the new remuneration policy 92 Wider employee considerations 93 Directors Remuneration Policy Policy table for current executive directors 94 Remuneration scenarios for current executive directors 96 Policy table for the Chairman and non-executive directors 97 Discretion 97 Recruitment remuneration policy 98 Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company 98 Consideration of shareholders views 98 Service contracts and policy on payments for loss of office 99 Annual report on remuneration Implementation of policy in 2017 100 Total remuneration paid to executive directors for 2016 101 Assessment of long-term incentive LTI awards 101 LTI awards granted during 2016 102 Performance conditions for 2017 LTI awards 103 Payments to past directors 104 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors for 2016 104 Directors interests in shares and shareholding requirements 105 Total Shareholder Return TSR performance 106 Pay comparisons 106 The Committee and its activities during 2016 107 Shareholder voting on the remuneration policy 108 Other Remuneration Disclosures Eight highest paid senior executives below Board 109 Remuneration process and adjustments for risk, malus and clawback 109 Remuneration policy for all employees 110 Remuneration of Material Risk Takers 111 87 Directors Remuneration Report Annual statement from Sandy Crombie This aim is achieved through a combination of reduced award Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration levels, performance factors that are designed to be more within Committee the control of management and the removal of pro rating for good leavers.
The circumstances that would be considered for good leaver treatment are set out in more detail in this report.
the focus is on No change is proposed to the quantum of fixed pay, although meaningful, longfixed share allowances will be released over three, rather than term shareholding five years to create a more even release of value across fixed as the mechanism and variable pay.
A further development is that the pension for achieving allowance under the recruitment policy for new executive alignment with directors will be reduced from 35% to 25%, bringing the rate shareholders closer to that of the wider employee population.
In summary, the focus is on meaningful long-term shareholding Dear Shareholder, as the mechanism for achieving alignment with shareholders.
To date, the proposed remuneration policy has been well received in I am pleased to set out the Directors Remuneration Report for discussions with our largest shareholders.
This report describes the pay decisions that we took for the Considerations for other employees last financial year and the new remuneration policy that is being The Committee recognises that RBS will only achieve its proposed to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM.
ambitions if all employees are engaged, motivated and supported by appropriate remuneration structures.
Average salaries for our Policy developments in 2016 UK employees have increased by 7.5% over the last three years I know that views on executive pay are continuing to evolve.
The while executive directors salaries have been static.
Our rates of government is consulting on areas of reform aimed at pay continue to exceed the living wage and we have removed strengthening the UKs corporate governance arrangements.
A sales incentives for front line retail staff and increased fixed pay separate industry-led Executive Remuneration Working Group so that they can concentrate on providing great customer service.
has also set out areas where it is believed that improvement is needed to restore trust in current remuneration practices.
RBS Financial performance in 2016 continues to contribute to consultations aimed at strengthening Some important milestones were met in 2016.
RBS was able to governance and pay arrangements.
retire the Dividend Access Share in March and this was a key part in normalising RBSs capital structure.
Good progress has It is clear many shareholders value simple remuneration also been made in resolving a number of major legacy and structures.
The Committee spent a great deal of time considering conduct issues although these continue to affect financial results.
alternative constructs and how these would align to RBSs Variable pay across RBS is subject to a robust performance cultural aims on pay.
The proposed new policy represents a assessment process which allows outcomes to be adjusted if risk significant change and has two principal aims: to produce greater management or conduct has fallen short of the required standard.
alignment with shareholders and to discourage the potential for excessive risk taking.
The restructuring of the business has continued during 2016 but there is a strong business at the heart of RBS, capable of The design focuses on creating alignment by ensuring executives delivering sustainable returns for shareholders.
The franchises build up larger shareholdings and retain them for longer.
This have performed well with adjusted operating profits of 4,249 intent is being reinforced by a significant increase in shareholding million for 2016.
The Committees decisions aim to strike a requirements from 250% to 400% of salary for the Chief balance in rewarding employees for good performance but Executive and from 125% to 250% for the Chief Financial Officer.
recognising RBS is not yet in the position that it needs to be.
The new policy also encourages sustainable long-term performance by having a lower maximum long-term incentive Pay decisions for 2016 The Group bonus pool has fallen from 373 million in 2015 to award level, but with performance assessed on factors that the 343 million in 2016, a reduction of 8%.
Over 93% of this pool will executive would reasonably be expected to achieve, creating a be paid to those below the executive level.
Where employees do less leveraged construct and encouraging safe and secure receive a bonus, the average amounts remain relatively modest growth.
The maximum potential long-term incentive award is with 50% of employees receiving 2,000 or less and a further being reduced by around 40% for the Chief Executive and by 23% receiving less than 5,000.
The amount of any immediate around 30% for the Chief Financial Officer.
cash bonuses continues to be limited to 2,000.
It is also proposed that pro rating of long-term incentive awards The report sets out further information and I hope shareholders will not apply for good leavers under the new policy.
The will support the resolutions on remuneration arrangements at the Committee recognises that time pro rating is a common forthcoming AGM.
I am very grateful for the guidance and preference for some investors and its removal has only been support provided by my fellow Committee members as well as included after considerable thought, and after consulting with a those who assist the Committee over the year.
I would also like to number of shareholders.
The intention is to create high levels of thank shareholders for their constructive input as we discussed shareholding that persist for a period after leaving and pro rating how best to shape the remuneration policy for the years ahead.
of awards reduces this alignment.
RBS is unusual in having no annual bonus element of pay for executive directors and bonus Sandy Crombie awards would typically not be subject to pro rating.
Furthermore, Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration the policy aims broadly to maintain the expected value of pay to Committee executive directors over their typical tenure in role.
23 February 2017 88 Directors Remuneration Report Key features of the new remuneration policy for executive directors The new policy is focused on the long term, aimed at attracting and keeping the right people for RBS.
The intent is a policy that aligns executives with shareholders predominantly through holding shares rather than formulaic and unpredictable performance conditions.
As a result, shareholding requirements will be significantly increased under the new policy and performance testing of LTI awards will be based on factors that executive directors would reasonably be expected to achieve, encouraging executives to operate within risk appetite.
The maximum quantum will be reduced in line with a growing consensus on the need to restrain executive pay.
Key features The intention is to create a construct that is more highly valued by executives, by assessing performance on factors considered to be more within the control of management and therefore providing greater certainty of outcomes.
Combined with the removal of pro rating for good leavers, the expected value of remuneration delivered to executive directors over time is broadly maintained.
Longer vesting and retention periods will apply to LTI awards, with the release of shares over an eight year period, helping to ensure decisions and outcomes reflect a truly long-term timeframe and are even further aligned with the experience of shareholders.
How will performance assessment work under the proposed LTI construct?
For each of the core performance areas of Finance, Risk & Operations, Customers and our People, the Committee will consider whether the executive director has over the relevant period achieved what would reasonably have been expected in the circumstances.
The Committee will review performance against factors examples are set out below relevant to RBSs strategic objectives in each area, but will apply its judgement without reference to formulaic targets.
Performance will be assessed taking into account circumstances applying over the period of assessment which may have affected the achievability of performance objectives.
The majority of the performance variation will take place under a pre-grant test, with a pre-vest assessment representing a final check that, taking all circumstances into account, overall performance has been satisfactory.
The achievement of reasonable or target performance expectations will deliver full, or nearly full, payout of the LTI awards, reflecting the significantly reduced level of awards.
Each year, the performance factors will be determined in light of RBSs priorities for that year.
The first awards will not be made under the proposed LTI construct until early 2018 and further details will be disclosed in the 2017 annual remuneration report.
Performance management framework FINANCE CUSTOMERS e. g. CET1 ratio, Return on Equity e. g. factors aligned with the defined customer strategy, NPS scores RISK & OPERATIONS PEOPLE What areas e. g. deliver on key operational e. g. engagement index, progress will be priorities for the year and progress on against defined people objectives assessed?
risk culture Supported by Risk & Control and Stakeholder Perception underpins to consider whether there are any other factors that would lead to a downwards adjustment for example if the achievements within the areas above were not considered sustainable, or were achieved through excessive risk taking The pre-grant test will constitute a collective and individual view of performance over the prior year.
No deduction will be made for target performance.
Prior to vesting, a pre-vest test will be based on an assessment of collective performance for the year for which the award was made, knowing what we know now, and taking into account all circumstances.
This is intended to carry a high degree of certainty, and to vest as long as a threshold level of sustainable performance has been delivered.
The aim is to reward sustained performance and, following the application of both the pre-grant and pre-vest assessment, executive directors should expect to receive 80% of the award on average over time provided that they deliver on the performance factors as determined by the Committee.
Awards may be reduced, potentially down to zero, further to the application of either the pre-grant or prevest tests where there has been significant underperformance or risk management failings.
89 Directors Remuneration Report Comparison of the current and new remuneration policy for executive directors Current policy New policy Fixed Salary remuneration 1,000,000 for the Chief Executive No changes to salary levels are proposed at this time.
800,000 for the Chief Financial Officer overall, no change in Fixed share allowance quantum at 100% of salary, delivered in shares released over a No change to the fixed share allowance amount but shares will this time five year retention period.
be released over a three year retention period, to create a more even release structure between fixed and variable pay.
Pension allowance 35% of salary, delivered in cash.
No change to pension allowance for current executive directors.
Policy for new executive directors to be reduced to 25% of salary.
Standard benefit funding 26,250 No changes to standard benefit funding level.
Variable Long-term incentive award remuneration Underlying award of 400% of salary but with pay- 175% of salary for the current Chief Executive currently 1.75 out capped by regulatory maximum which for million and 200% of salary for the current Chief Financial Officer significant performance year 2016 equates to 287% of salary.
reduction in maximum Pre-vest performance measures based on four Pre-grant and pre-vest tests, to consider performance in the potential categories: Economic Profit, Relative TSR, Safe & round, against what would reasonably have been expected in the Secure Bank and Customers & People together areas of Finance, Risk & Operations, Customers and our People.
with a risk and conduct underpin.
Risk & Control and Stakeholder Perception underpins will apply.
A three year performance period and the award Extension of the deferral period with vesting taking place in equal vests in equal amounts in years four and five.
amounts over years three to seven.
A six month retention period applies after vesting A 12 month retention period applies after vesting.
The clawback and the clawback period is seven years from the period is extended to ten years from grant if events are under date of grant.
investigation at the end of the seven year period.
Other Shareholding requirement elements 250% of salary for the Chief Executive 400% of salary for the Chief Executive 125% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer 250% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
better alignment A period of five years is allowed in which to build up Unvested LTI awards will count towards the requirement once with shareholdings to the required level.
Any unvested any pre-vest performance has been assessed, three years after shareholders share awards are excluded from the calculation.
The number of unvested shares that count will be reduced to reflect the estimated tax liability arising on vesting.
Once shares are free from their respective retention periods, executive directors will be permitted to sell a maximum of 25% of such shares until the requirement is met.
It is estimated that it would take a new Chief Executive five years to meet the 400% shareholding requirement.
Executive directors will continue to hold significant shareholdings after leaving and a post-employment shareholding requirement is therefore not considered necessary.
Depending on leaver circumstances, it would take between three and eight years for an executive director to fully dispose of RBS shares due to the long vesting and retention periods.
Leaver treatment LTI awards held by good leavers are normally pro Future LTI awards held by good leavers will not be subject to pro rated based on time served during the performance rating for time.
Removal of pro rating is a key part of the period.
construct in order to achieve the reduction in maximum opportunity while broadly maintaining expected value to executive directors over their typical tenure in role.
It also helps to ensure that individuals retain an appropriate long-term focus right up to the point of departure, as well as providing greater shareholder alignment post employment.
Further details on the new remuneration policy and arrangements for the year ahead can be found in the relevant sections of this report.
90 Directors Remuneration Report Change in maximum remuneration opportunity Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 6,000 6,000 20% reduction in max.
total pay 17% reduction in max.
total pay 40% reduction in max.
variable pay 30% reduction in max.
variable pay 5,246 5,000 5,000 4,126 4,211 4,000 4,000 2,870 3,506 1,750 3,000 2,305 3,000 1,600 2,000 2,000 1,000 1,000 800 800 376 376 1,000 1,000 306 306 1,000 1,000 800 800 0 0 2016 Policy New Policy 2016 Policy New Policy Salary Pension and benefits Fixed share allowance LTI award maximum Salary Pension and benefits Fixed share allowance LTI award maximum Expected target value of remuneration The new remuneration policy promotes sustainable long-term performance by having a lower maximum LTI award level and performance tests that encourage individuals to operate within risk appetite.
The release of shares will extend over an eight year period vesting over seven years and one year post-vesting retention period, following a year of pre-grant assessment to determine the size of the award.
While the maximum and expected value of pay from a single years remuneration is being reduced, the policy aims broadly to maintain the expected value of pay to executive directors over their typical tenure in role.
The combination of reduced LTI award levels, offset by performance based on factors that the executive would reasonably be expected to achieve and the removal of pro rating for good leavers ensures this aim is achieved.
Timing of remuneration payments based on the Chief Executive for the 2017 performance year 4,126 Pre-grant Variable pay performance LTI 1,750 period award Pre-vest 1,750 40% reduction in in assessment maximum under 2018 current policy LTI awards vest over years three to seven followed by 12 month retention period post vesting FSA for 1,000 2017 Fixed pay FSA released over 376 2,376 three years no change from current policy 1,000 Total 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Salary Pensionandbenefits Fixedshareallowance FSA LTIaward 91 000s 000s 000s Directors Remuneration Report Questions and answers on the new remuneration policy Regulatory-driven features: Pre-grant performance tests will be introduced: Why are changes being made to the policy at this time?
The pre-grant performance test has the effect of preventing The current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders the grant of an LTI award in the year of joining: at the 2014 AGM for a period of three years and is therefore due The deferral period will be extended with awards vesting for renewal at the 2017 AGM.
During 2016, the Committee took between years three to seven from the date of grant: the opportunity to assess how the remuneration policy could best The retention period that applies after the vesting date will fit with RBSs culture and pay philosophy for employees.
be increased from six months to twelve months: and The clawback period is extended to ten years from grant if What options did the Committee consider?
events are still under investigation after seven years.
During 2016, the Committee reviewed the current policy against a range of factors including the latest guidance from shareholders, Why will future LTI awards not be subject to pro rating?
regulatory requirements, the external environment and wider The new policy takes into account the significant reduction in social considerations in determining executive pay.
maximum opportunity and the regulatory restriction which has the effect of preventing the granting of LTI awards in the first year of Two main options were identified following the review: employment.
The Committee believes that removal of time pro Adopting an alternative LTI construct to replace the current rating for good leavers is fair in order to broadly maintain the structure, based on reduced maximum quantum but with expected value of pay over time and is appropriate in RBSs performance assessed on factors that the executive would particular circumstances.
reasonably be expected to achieve: or Keeping the current construct with changes limited to those RBS is unusual in having no annual bonus element of pay and required to comply with regulatory requirements.
bonus awards would typically not be subject to pro rating.
Under an LTI only construct, removal of pro rating helps to ensure that After consultation with major shareholders, the Committee executive directors are motivated and retain an appropriate longbelieves that the alternative LTI construct provides the best fit term focus right up to the point of departure, and also provides with RBSs ambitions as well as being strongly aligned to the greater shareholder alignment and continued accountability for creation of long-term shareholder value.
The departing good leaver retains exposure to RBS shares for up to eight years post leaving due to What material factors are taken into account when setting the long vesting and retention periods that continue to apply.
The intention is to create a remuneration policy that is specific to The removal of pro rating places additional focus on good leaver RBS and its particular circumstances rather than looking to follow definitions and further details on the circumstances that will standard market practice.
The policy aims to reinforce our values qualify for good leaver treatment are set out on page 99. and support the delivery of RBSs strategy.
The views of shareholders are key in shaping the remuneration policy along When will the new policy be implemented?
with the need to comply with evolving regulatory requirements.
Subject to approval from shareholders, the new policy will be The Committee also looks to ensure consistency, where possible, effective from the date of the AGM.
The changes will be between the executive director policy and pay proposals for the implemented in a transitional period from 2017 to 2018.
The fixed broader employee population.
This includes less reliance on share allowance for 2017 will be awarded after the AGM, to be variable pay and the use of deferral in shares, malus and released over a three year retention period, and the first LTI clawback to ensure that any variable pay that is awarded is awards under the new policy will be made in early 2018. aligned with long-term performance.
How will LTI awards be made in 2017?
What are the key features of the new policy?
The LTI award to be made in March 2017, for the 2016 RBS-driven features: performance year, will be the last award made under the existing Maximum potential LTI awards will be reduced: remuneration policy.
This award will include a longer deferral Performance assessment is based on factors considered to period, with 50% of the award vesting after four years and the be more within the control of management: remaining 50% vesting in years five to seven, along with an The policy encourages executive directors to operate within extended clawback period in line with regulatory requirements.
risk appetite and deliver safe and secure growth: Further details for 2017 can be found on page 100 and a Shareholding requirements will be increased: summary of the transitional arrangements is set out below.
Fixed share allowances will be released over a three year rather than a five year retention period, in recognition of the Awarded in 2017 Awarded in 2018 impact of the extended deferral period for LTI awards: LTI awards held by executive directors who leave in good 2017 salary 2018 salary leaver circumstances will not be subject to time pro rating, 2017 pension 2018 pension helping to maintain expected value and increasing post 2017 fixed share allowance 2018 fixed share allowance employment shareholder alignment: and released over 2018-2020 released over 2019-2021 The pension allowance under the recruitment policy for new executive directors will be reduced from 35% to 25% of Current policy LTI for 2016 New policy LTI for 2017 salary, with a corresponding increase to other elements of performance year performance year fixed pay.
vests 50% in 2021, 50% split vests pro-rata over 2021-2025 over 2022-2024 92 Directors Remuneration Report Wider employee considerations The Committee must ensure that good behaviours are To provide the best possible customer service, RBS is building a encouraged and that conduct issues are accounted for.
strong, simple and fair bank.
Performance and pay management The policy aims to pay people appropriately for their work is part of that process.
and commitment to serve customers well.
RBS continues to operate as a fully accredited living wage RBS needs to build an engaged and inclusive workforce, employer.
capable of providing excellent customer service.
If conduct falls short of the standard expected, the Senior leaders are subject to individual and collective Committee can adjust variable pay awards through malus performance assessment based on factors which include reduction or cancellation of awards prior to payment or financial strength and customer service.
clawback recovering awards that have already been RBS has set a target for each Executive Committee paid.
member to have at least 30% women in senior roles the Further information on the accountability review process top three leadership layers by 2020. under which malus and clawback can be applied is set out Gender targets are one of three People measures, later in this report.
together with engagement and leadership, which are The Committee aims to strike a fair balance between considered when assessing performance for some of our adjustments to variable pay as a targeted measure to senior leaders.
change behaviour whilst not disproportionately penalising Employees are motivated by good leadership and almost employees who are not directly responsible for events.
16,000 employees undertook our Determined to Lead As set out below, bonuses have continued to shrink at leadership programme in 2016.
RBS, aligned with the restructuring that has taken place We have now trained over 60% of employees at all levels and the actions taken by the Committee.
of RBS to tackle unconscious bias, helping to remove bias Pay levels reflect the progress made in 2016 and the bank in our recruitment processes, build more inclusive teams, that RBS is becoming, while ensuring our people are fairly make well informed decisions and better understand and and appropriately rewarded for the work they do.
In October 2016 we launched Service Excellence, our new customer service programme with over 34,000 employees receiving training so far.
Bonus pool reduced steadily from 2010 to 2016 Professional Standards Frameworks set out the relevant knowledge, skills, and behaviours expected of RBS -75% employees to embed good conduct.
1,375 1,400 While employee engagement has been impacted during 2016 by the ongoing restructuring of the business, it 1,200 remains higher than when we set out our strategic plan in 2014.
1,000 789 RBS is simplifying how employees get paid.
800 In Personal & Business Banking, pay for frontline roles is 679 linked to supporting customers, rather than short-term 576 600 incentive schemes, and this was extended to employees in 421 Ulster Bank with effect from 1 January 2017.
373 400 343 Our clerical population in the UK and Republic of Ireland now receives only fixed pay, making pay arrangements 200 easier to understand.
Salary ranges have been updated to reflect the external 0 market and to ensure that people doing the same or 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 similar roles are paid more consistently.
93 m Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Policy A new Directors Remuneration Policy is being proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Subject to approval being received, the policy will be effective from the date of the 2017 AGM.
The policy will apply for three years, until the AGM in 2020, unless changes are required in which case a revised policy will be submitted to shareholders for approval.
The objective of the policy is to support the business strategy and promote the long-term success of RBS.
Fixed pay elements for current executive directors Fixed pay elements are intended to provide a level of competitive remuneration for performing the role.
The intention is to have less reliance on variable pay and thus discourage excessive risk-taking.
Element of Purpose and link pay to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Salary To aid recruitment and Paid monthly and reviewed annually.
retention of high performing individuals The rates for 2017 are unchanged: Any future salary increases will whilst paying no more Chief Executive - 1,000,000 be considered against peer than is necessary.
Chief Financial Officer - 800,000 companies and will not normally be greater than the average To provide a competitive Further details on remuneration arrangements for the salary increase for RBS level of fixed cash year ahead are set out in the annual report on employees over the period of the remuneration, reflecting remuneration.
Other than in exceptional the skills and experience circumstances, the salary will not required.
increase by more than 15% over the course of this policy.
Fixed share To provide fixed pay that A fixed allowance paid entirely in shares.
Individuals An award of shares with an allowance reflects the skills and receive shares that vest immediately subject to any annual value of up to 100% of experience required and deductions required for tax purposes and a retention salary at the time of award, or responsibilities for the period will apply.
Shares will be released from the such higher amount which role.
This will be retention period in equal tranches over a three year represents such value rounded delivered in shares period.
The fixed share allowance will broadly be paid in up to the nearest whole share.
1 subject to a retention arrears, currently in two instalments per year.
share allowance is not pensionable.
Benefits To provide a range of A set level of funding is provided and executive directors Set level of funding for standard flexible and market can select from a range of standard benefits including, benefits currently 26,250 competitive benefits that but not limited to: which is subject to review.
are valued and assist key company car individuals in carrying out private medical cover The total value of benefits their duties effectively.
life assurance provided is disclosed each year critical illness insurance in the annual report on remuneration.
In addition, executive directors are entitled to travel assistance in connection with company business The maximum potential value of including the use of a car and driver.
RBS will meet the benefits will depend on the type cost of any tax due on the benefit.
On rare occasions of benefit and cost of its where they are accompanied by their spouse partner to provision, which will vary business events, RBS may also meet the costs and any according to market rates.
Executive directors are also entitled to holiday and sick pay.
Further benefits including, but not limited to, relocation costs e. g. tax advice, shipment and storage facilities, housing and flight allowances and payment of legal fees may be offered in line with market practice.
RBS may also put in place certain security arrangements for executive directors where that is deemed appropriate.
Pension To encourage planning Provision of a monthly cash pension allowance based Pension allowance for current for retirement and longon a percentage of salary.
Opportunity to use the cash executive directors of 35% of term savings.
to participate in a defined contribution pension scheme.
Note: 1 The company believes that delivery in shares is the most appropriate construct for a fixed allowance to executive directors, qualifying as fixed remuneration for regulatory requirements.
If regulatory requirements emerge that prohibit allowances being delivered in shares, or deem that such allowances will not qualify as fixed remuneration, then RBS reserves the right to provide the value of the allowance in cash instead in order to comply with the requirements.
94 Directors Remuneration Policy Variable pay Variable pay is intended to incentivise the delivery of sustainable long-term performance, with rewards aligned to shareholders interests and adjusted for risk.
The first awards under the new policy will be made in early 2018.
Element Purpose and link Maximum potential of pay to strategy Operation value Performance assessment Variable To support a culture Any variable pay awarded will The maximum award for Performance will be assessed in the pay award where individuals be delivered as a long-term current directors is 175% areas of Finance, Risk & Operations, long-term are rewarded for the incentive, paid in shares and of salary for the Chief Customers and our People to incentive delivery of subject to performance Executive and 200% of determine whether the executive has sustained, target assessment and employment salary for the Chief achieved what would reasonably performance, taking conditions.
Financial Officer, or such have been expected in the into account RBSs higher amount which circumstances.
Awards will be subject to represents such value deferral, malus, clawback, rounded up to the nearest The Committee will consider relevant Performance will post-vesting retention periods whole share.
factors e. g. CET1 ratio under the include a range of and any other terms as Finance heading and others relating financial and nonrequired by regulators.
Awards are also subject to progress in the areas of Risk & financial factors to to the regulatory Operations, Customers and People encourage long-term A one year pre-grant requirement that limits objectives that are relevant to value creation for performance period will apply variable pay to the level RBSs strategic aims but will apply shareholders.
and awards will also be of fixed pay and can be its judgement for the most part subject to a pre-vest valued in line with EBA without reference to formulaic Delivery in shares performance assessment at rules, including any targets.
with the ability to the end of a three year period, available discount for apply malus with vesting taking place from long-term deferral.
Risk & Control and Stakeholder adjustments and years three to seven after Perception underpins will apply clawback further grant.
The regulatory limit is which may lead to downwards supports longer-term currently higher than the adjustment.
alignment with Awards are subject to malus level under the proposed shareholders prior to vesting and clawback new policy.
Performance will be assessed in the interests.
The majority of the for seven years from the date Prior performance will be performance variation is expected to of award, extended to ten taken into account when take place under the pre-grant test, years if events are under determining the value of with the pre-vest assessment investigation at the end of the the award at the time of representing a final check that, normal seven-year clawback grant.
taking all circumstances into period.
The post-vesting account, overall performance has retention period will be 12 The vesting level of the been satisfactory.
award can vary between 0% and 100% dependent The Committee has discretion to The award will be delivered on the assessment of vary the performance factors in under the RBS 2014 performance.
Employee Share Plan, as approved by shareholders at Further details on the performance the 2014 AGM.
factors and assessment will be set out in the annual remuneration report for the relevant year.
Notes to policy table The performance factors for variable pay awards have been chosen to reward sustained performance and are complemented by increased long-term shareholding requirements.
Any targets will be set in line with RBSs strategic priorities.
The fixed share allowance is part of fixed remuneration and is therefore not subject to any performance adjustment.
Changes have been made under the proposed policy to lower the maximum quantum of LTI awards combined with performance factors considered to be more within the control of management and increased shareholding requirements.
Further details on the changes can be found on page 89 to 92.
Remuneration for executive directors broadly follows the policy for all employees but generally with a higher element of variable pay and greater delivery in shares, held for the long term to ensure appropriate alignment with the interests of shareholders.
Further details on the remuneration policy for all employees, including details on how malus and clawback can be applied, can be found on pages 109 to 110.
95 Directors Remuneration Policy Other pay elements Element of Purpose and link Maximum potential pay to strategy Operation value Shareholding To ensure Executive directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent Chief Executive requirements executive to a percentage of salary.
Unvested shares from LTI awards will 400% of salary directors build and count on a net of tax basis towards meeting the shareholding continue to hold a requirement once the pre-vest performance assessment has taken Chief Financial Officer significant place, at the end of the three year period.
250% of salary shareholding to align with the Once the respective retention periods have passed, directors are Requirements may be interests of permitted to dispose of up to 25% of the net of tax shares received reviewed in future but are shareholders.
until the shareholding requirement is met.
Any shares purchased not expected to be voluntarily will be excluded from this sale restriction.
All-employee An opportunity to Opportunity to elect to contribute from salary and acquire shares Statutory limits imposed share plans acquire RBS under any of the companys all-employee share plans in operation by HMRC or the shares.
from time to time, such as the RBS Sharesave and Buy As You Earn applicable limits under the Plan.
These plans are not subject to performance conditions.
Legacy To ensure RBS In approving this policy, authority is given to honour any previous In line with existing arrangements can continue to commitments or arrangements entered into with current or former commitments and honour payments directors, including share awards granted under the 2014 Employee arrangements.
due to executive Share Plan.
LTI awards under the existing policy will normally vest directors.
over a three to seven year period subject to the achievement of relevant performance conditions, based on Economic Profit, Relative Total Shareholder Return, Safe & Secure Bank and Customers & People measures.
Six month post-vesting retention periods and service requirements also apply.
Further details of the value and terms of the awards can be found in the annual remuneration reports for the relevant years.
Authority is also given to honour arrangements agreed for an employee prior to appointment as an executive director that may have different terms or performance conditions.
Remuneration scenarios for current executive directors under the new remuneration policy Chief Executive 000s Chief Financial Officer 000s 4,126 4,000 4,000 3,776 3,506 3,186 42% 37% 3,000 3,000 45% 2,376 40% LTI award LTI award 16% 11% 10% 1,906 2,000 2,000 Pension and Pension and 16% 10% 9% benefits benefits 42% 26% 24% Fixed share Fixed share 42% 25% 23% allowance allowance 1,000 1,000 Salary Salary 42% 26% 24% 42% 25% 23% 0 0 Minimum Expected Maximum Minimum Expected Maximum Notes: 1 The charts above are for illustration only and do not take into account any share price movement over the period.
2 The benefits figure includes standard benefit funding as outlined in the policy but excludes exceptional or business related items such as relocation allowances and travel assistance in connection with company business, the value of which will be disclosed in the total remuneration table each year.
3 Subject to the performance assessment, LTI awards will vest between years three to seven from award and be subject to a 12 month retention period post vesting.
4 The total maximum opportunity represents a 20% reduction for the Chief Executive and a 17% reduction for the Chief Financial Officer from that available under the current policy.
The variable pay element is approximately 40% lower for the Chief Executive and 30% lower for the Chief Financial Officer than the current policy.
5 The relatively minor difference between expected and maximum shown above is the consequence of a deliberate move to a less leveraged remuneration construct.
The expected value has been calculated at 80% of maximum.
The policy has a strong focus on long-term shareholding to create alignment with shareholders along with LTI awards assessed on factors that executive directors would reasonably be expected to achieve, encouraging performance within risk appetite.
96 Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors Element of Purpose and link pay to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Fees To provide a Fees are paid monthly in cash.
The Board Following a review of the size of the Board competitive level retains discretion to pay fees in shares as well as against comparable companies and the of fixed cash.
relative time commitment for individual nonremuneration that executive directors at RBS, it is proposed to reflects the skills, The level of remuneration reflects the increase the basic Board fee for nonexperience and responsibility and time commitment required and executive directors in 2017 from the date of time commitment the level of fees paid to directors of comparable the AGM.
This would be the first change in required for the major UK companies.
the basic Board fee since the policy was last role.
There is no change at this Fees are reviewed regularly.
Additional fees may time to the Chairmans composite fee.
be paid for new Board Committees provided these are not greater than fees payable for the The rates for the year ahead are set out in the existing Board Committees as detailed in the annual report on remuneration.
Any future increases to fees will be No variable pay is provided so that the Chairman considered against fees paid to directors of and non-executive directors can maintain comparable companies and will not normally appropriate independence, focus on long-term be greater than the average inflation rate over decision making and constructively challenge the period under review, taking into account performance of the executive directors.
that any change in responsibilities, role or time commitment may merit a larger increase.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, fees will not increase by more than 15% over the course of this policy.
Benefits To provide a level Reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket The value of the private medical cover of benefits in line expenses incurred in connection with the provided to the Chairman and any other with market performance of duties.
benefits will be in line with market rates and practice.
disclosed in the annual report on The Chairman and non-executive directors are remuneration.
entitled to travel assistance in connection with company business including the use of a car and driver.
RBS will meet the cost of any tax due on the benefit.
On rare occasions where they are accompanied by their spouse partner to business events, RBS may also meet the costs and any associated tax liability.
Other benefits may be offered in line with market practice.
The Chairman also receives private medical cover.
Discretion The Committee has certain discretionary powers under the companys employee share plan rules.
For example, the Committee has discretion to determine whether an individual would qualify as a good leaver on departure and also to decide that awards held by good leavers should vest earlier than the normal vesting date.
Such discretions would only be used to ensure a fair outcome for the director and for shareholders, taking into account the circumstances of departure, the performance of the director and the need for an orderly transition.
If discretion is applied in these circumstances then it will be disclosed.
Further discretions include the ability to: treat LTI awards in a range of ways in the event of a change of control, including the ability for LTI awards to be exchanged for new awards: change any performance measures, targets, and to adjust such awards if major events occur for example transaction and capital raisings : and make administrative changes to the plan rules.
In addition, the Committee retains discretion to apply malus and clawback to LTI awards.
When assessing performance, the Committee can also adjust the number of shares that are received under LTI awards through the application of underpins in appropriate circumstances.
The Committee also retains the discretion to make reasonable and proportionate changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy in order to respond to changing legal or regulatory requirements or guidelines including but not limited to any PRA or FCA revisions to their remuneration rules and the EBA remuneration guidelines.
Where proposed changes are considered to be material, the Committee will consult with RBSs major shareholders.
97 Directors Remuneration Policy Recruitment remuneration policy Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the RBS considers both internal and external candidates and company assesses the skills and experience required for each role.
The Committee retains oversight of the remuneration policy for all Pay is generally set at no more than is required to attract the employees to ensure there is a fair and consistent approach most suitable candidate for the role: throughout the organisation.
The policy uses deferral, malus and The policy on the recruitment of new directors aims to be clawback to promote effective risk management and alignment competitive and to structure pay in line with the framework with shareholders interests.
applicable to current directors, based on the elements of pay detailed in the policy table, recognising that some Consultation on remuneration generally takes place with our adjustment to quantum within that framework may be social partners, including representatives from UNITE.
RBS is a necessary to secure the preferred candidate: fully accredited Living Wage employer and we set our minimum The pension allowance for new executive directors will be pay including benefit funding above the level that is required to reduced from 35% to 25% of salary, to bring the rate more in meet this.
line with that of other employees, with a corresponding increase to other elements of fixed pay: An annual employee opinion survey takes place which includes a Consideration will be given to the skills and experience held number of questions on pay and culture.
This includes questions by the individual being recruited, as well as the incumbents on employees understanding of how pay is determined and position: whether employees believe they are paid fairly for the work they In the event of an internal promotion, existing contractual do.
commitments can continue to be honoured: A buy-out policy exists to replace awards forfeited or While employees are not directly consulted on the directors payments foregone.
The buy-out policy is in line with remuneration policy, around 24,000 of our employees are regulatory requirements, including the PRA rules that apply shareholders through the companys employee share plans and to buy-outs concluded on or after 1 January 2017: have the ability to express their views through voting on the The Committee will minimise buy-outs wherever possible Directors Remuneration Report.
and ensure they are no more generous than, and on Consideration of shareholders views substantially similar terms to, the original awards or An extensive consultation is undertaken every year with major payments they are replacing.
No sign-on awards or other shareholders, including UKFI and other stakeholders, on our payments will be offered on joining: proposed remuneration approach.
The consultation process Any awards granted following the recruitment of a candidate typically involves inviting our largest shareholders to attend either may be made under the companys employee share plans one-to-one meetings or roundtable discussions.
from time to time or under the relevant provisions in the Listing Rules and will need to comply with regulatory A range of topics are discussed including the remuneration policy requirements.
Full details will be disclosed in the next for the year ahead and any significant changes.
The process remuneration report following recruitment: and takes place in sufficient time for shareholders views to be The maximum level of variable pay which may be granted to considered prior to the Committee making any final decisions on new executive directors will be guided by, but not limited to, remuneration and variable pay awards.
arrangements for existing executive directors and in any event will not be more than one times the level of fixed pay, In late 2016, meetings took place involving a number of valued according to EBA rules.
The maximum level institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies representing a excludes any buy-out arrangements.
substantial portion of the non-UKFI shareholding.
The reaction to the consultation process was positive and allowed the Committee Other directorships to gain valuable insight into any areas of concern.
Shareholders Agreement from the Board must be sought before directors and other stakeholders indicated they were supportive of the new accept any additional roles outside of RBS.
Procedures are in remuneration construct, highlighting the reduction in maximum place to make sure that regulatory limits on the number of potential variable pay and increased shareholding requirements directorships held are complied with.
The Board would also as favourable features.
consider whether it was appropriate for executive directors to retain any remuneration receivable in respect of any external Shareholders asked wide-ranging questions including how the directorships, taking into account the nature of the appointment.
performance tests would work and the rationale for removing pro Neither of the current executive directors holds a non-executive rating for good leavers.
The Committee Chairman explained how director role at any other company at this time.
Details of the the expected value of pay would be broadly maintained over time directorships held by other directors can be found in the under the new policy, provided that pro rating for good leavers biographies section of the corporate governance report.
did not apply, and that there were merits in assessing executive directors against factors considered to be more within their control and which they could reasonably be expected to achieve.
Shareholders continue to play a vital role in developing remuneration practices that support the long-term interests of the business and the Committee is grateful and greatly encouraged by their involvement in the process.
98 Directors Remuneration Policy Service contracts and policy on payments for loss of office directors Provision Policy details for executive directors Notice period RBS or the executive director is required to give 12 months notice to the other party to terminate the executive directors employment.
Payments for There are no pre-determined provisions for compensation on termination.
There is discretion for RBS to make a loss of office payment in lieu of notice based on salary only which is released in monthly instalments.
The executive director must take all reasonable steps to find alternative work and any remaining instalments will be reduced as appropriate to offset income from any such work.
Treatment of Any shares awarded under the fixed share allowance and LTI awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant outstanding plan rules as approved by shareholders.
employee share plan awards on Fixed share allowances termination Shares will continue to be released over the applicable retention period helping to ensure that former executive directors maintain an appropriate interest in RBS shares.
In all leaver circumstances, executive directors will continue to be eligible to receive a pro-rated fixed share allowance to reflect the period up to the termination date.
LTI awards made under the existing remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM LTI awards normally lapse on leaving unless the termination is for one of a limited number of specified good leaver reasons or the Committee exercises its discretion to prevent lapsing.
LTI awards held by good leavers will continue to be subject to pro rating, to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of termination, unless the Committee exercises its discretion to determine otherwise.
LTI awards held by good leavers will normally vest on the original vesting dates, subject to the performance conditions being met.
Changes for LTI awards made under the new remuneration policy Under the policy being proposed to the 2017 AGM, LTI awards made in future will not be subject to pro rating for time in good leaver circumstances, for the reasons outlined earlier in this report.
Awards will also generally be made to good leavers in respect of the final year of employment.
Good leaver definition for LTI awards This definition applies to all LTI awards that the executive director holds.
Individuals will qualify for good leaver treatment if they leave due to ill-health, injury, disability, death, retirement, redundancy, the employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group, transfer of the employing business, or any other reason if and to the extent the Committee decides in any particular case.
With respect to the retirement category above, and recognising the typical length of tenure for executive director roles, retirement good leaver treatment for executive directors will typically be considered taking all circumstances into account.
Factors the Committee would expect to be present before agreeing to good leaver treatment under retirement include: whether the individual has been in role for at least five years, or otherwise qualifies for retirement criteria under RBSs policy, has demonstrated satisfactory performance, is not leaving to work in a capacity considered to be competing directly and materially with RBS, and is leaving at a time and in a manner that is agreed with the Board.
Other provisions Contracts include standard clauses covering remuneration arrangements and discretionary incentive plans as set out in this report, reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in performance of duties, redundancy terms and sickness absence, the performance review process, the disciplinary procedure and terms for dismissal in the event of personal underperformance or breaches of RBS policies.
The Committee retains the discretion to make payments including but not limited to professional and outplacement fees to facilitate smooth handovers, mitigate against legal claims and or procure reasonable assistance with investigations or claims, subject to any payments being made pursuant to a settlement or release agreement.
Provision Policy details for the Chairman and non-executive directors Notice and The Chairman and the non-executive directors have letters of appointment reflecting their responsibilities and time termination commitments.
They do not have notice periods and no compensation would be paid to the Chairman or nonprovisions executive directors in the event of termination of appointment, other than standard payments payable for the period served up to the termination date.
Election or re-election of directors In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the company stand for election or re-election annually by shareholders at the companys AGM.
99 Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration The sections audited by the company's auditors, Ernst and Young LLP, are as indicated.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 Details of remuneration to be awarded in 2017 to executive directors are set out below.
The long-term incentive LTI award is the grant due to be made in March 2017 for the 2016 performance year and the structure reflects the longer deferral period under PRA requirements.
Subject to the performance conditions being met, vesting will take place between years four to seven with 50% of any vesting in year four and 50% split over years five to seven.
This will be the last LTI award under the current remuneration policy with any subsequent awards being made under the proposed new remuneration policy set out on page 94.
The fixed share allowance for 2017 will be granted after the 2017 AGM and, subject to shareholder approval of the proposed policy, will be released over a three year retention period.
Executive directors remuneration to be awarded in 2017 Pension Fixed share allowance LTI award calculated in line Salary Standard benefits 35% of salary 100% of salary 1 with regulatory cap 2 Chief Executive 1,000,000 26,250 3 350,000 1,000,000 2,870,000 Chief Financial Officer 800,000 26,250.
280,000 800,000 2,305,000 Note: 1 Fixed share allowance will be payable broadly in arrears, currently in two instalments per year, and the shares will be released in equal tranches over a three year period.
2 The LTI that can be awarded in 2017 is limited to the level of fixed remuneration, taking into account the EBA discount rules for long-term deferral.
The discount factor is a mechanism to take account of opportunity costs and inflation risk for the value being provided over time and can be applied if the deferral period is at least five years.
By incorporating the current discount factor, LTI awards can be granted in March 2017 with a face value of approximately 121% of fixed remuneration.
For example, the Chief Executive received fixed remuneration of 2,376,250 in 2016 based on standard benefits only which allows an LTI award to be made at 2,870,000.
Performance measures and targets are set out on page 103.
3 Amount shown relates to standard benefit funding.
Executive directors are also entitled to benefits in line with the stated policy including travel assistance and the Chief Executive is entitled to a flight allowance as part of his relocation arrangements.
The value of benefits will be disclosed each year in the total remuneration table.
Chairman and non-executive directors fees for 2017 The basic Board fee for non-executive directors has been unchanged since the current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders in 2014.
During 2016, the Groups Nominations and Governance Committee considered how Board fees for non-executive directors compared to peer companies.
RBS has a smaller number of Board members than most, meaning that the relative time commitment for individual non-executive directors is likely to be greater.
Non-executive directors have also absorbed a number of incremental responsibilities arising out of matters considered to be unique to RBS.
It is proposed that the basic Board fee is increased from 72,500 to 80,000 per annum and, subject to shareholder approval being obtained, the change will take effect from the date of the AGM.
A summary of the proposed annual fees payable is set out below.
Chairman composite fee 750,000 Non-executive director basic fee for period pre AGM 72,500 Non-executive director basic fee for period post AGM 80,000 Senior Independent Director 30,000 Group Audit Committee GAC, Group Performance and Remuneration Committee RemCo, Member 30,000 Board Risk Committee BRC and Sustainable Banking Committee SBC Chairman 60,000 Board Oversight Committee BOC for GRG, Member 15,000 US Risk Committee Chairman 30,000 NatWest Markets formerly CIB advisory role 30,000 Group Nominations and Governance Committee Member 15,000 The CIB BOC was disbanded at the end of February 2016.
However, the Board agreed that Robert Gillespie, the former CIB BOC Chairman, should continue in an advisory role, supporting the NatWest Markets formerly CIB CEO and senior management team during a transitional period for the business for which he receives fees of 30,000 per annum.
100 Annual report on remuneration Total remuneration paid to executive directors for 2016 audited Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 Salary 1,000 1,000 800 800 Fixed share allowance 1 1,000 1,000 800 800 Benefits 2 113 149 26 26 Pension 350 350 280 280 Total fixed remuneration 3 2,463 2,499 1,906 1,906 n a n a Annual bonus n a n a 1,030 Long-term incentive award 4 993 Total remuneration 3,493 3,492 1,906 1,906 Notes: 1 The value of the fixed share allowance is based on 100% of salary and, as part of fixed remuneration, it is not subject to any performance conditions.
It is delivered in shares and released over a retention period.
2 Includes standard benefit funding of 26,250 per annum with the remainder being travel assistance in connection with company business 74,621 and relocation expenses 11,801 provided to Ross McEwan.
The 2015 benefits figure for Ross McEwan has been restated to include a value for travel assistance during that year.
3 The total fixed remuneration at 2,463,000 is higher than the 2,376,250 fixed remuneration in the implementation of policy section as the lower figure includes standard benefits only.
4 The 2016 value for Ross McEwan relates to an LTI award granted in 2014 that is due to vest in March 2017.
The performance conditions ended on 31 December 2016 and have been assessed as set out below together with an estimate of the vesting value.
The value for 2015 has been amended from the estimated value of 1,347,000 provided in the 2015 report to reflect the actual value on the vesting date in March 2016.
2014 LTI final assessment of performance measures audited An assessment of performance of each relevant element was provided by internal control functions and PwC assessed relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against a peer group of comparator banks.
Performance Measures Performance for minimum Vesting at Performance for maximum Vesting Weighted and weightings vesting minimum 100% vesting Actual Performance outcome Vesting % Economic Profit 1 billion 25% 0 0.4 billion 82% 20% 25% th TSR at upper 18 percentile Relative TSR TSR at median 20% 0% 0% 25% quartile ranking Vesting between 0% - 100% qualified by CET1 ratio: 13.4% Committee discretion Safe & Secure Bank 88% 22% 25% split across two measures Cost:income ratio of CET1 ratio target: 12% 61% Cost:income ratio target: 59% Vesting between 0% - 100% qualified by Gap to number 1 Committee discretion of 13.4 Customers & People Net Promoter Score target: Gap to number 1 of 8.7 0% 0% 25% split across two measures EI: 6 points behind Engagement Index EI target: EI within 3 points of GFS norm Global Financial Services GFS norm 42% Overall vesting outcome 1 Note: 1 The Economic Profit outcome was determined according to the vesting scale where target performance of 0.77 billion would result in 62.5% vesting.
The vesting within the Safe & Secure Bank and Customers & People categories has been qualified by Committee discretion, taking into account the margin by which targets have been missed or exceeded and any other relevant factors.
The CET1 ratio target was exceeded and the cost:income ratio was deemed to have been substantially met, reflecting the significant progress from the 2013 base year of 69% and recognising the significant headwinds in the external environment since that time.
This resulted in 100% and 75% vesting respectively for these elements and a combined vesting outcome under the Safe & Secure category of 88%.
On the Customers measure, whilst absolute performance on the customer position had improved over the period, the target on closing the gap had been missed and in the circumstances the Committee concluded performance was not sufficient in order to justify vesting.
On the People measure, the Committee recognised that engagement scores had been impacted by a number of unforeseen factors and difficult decisions required by management during the year but again it was felt that the level of vesting for this element should be nil.
The Committee also received input from the BRC.
In making its final judgement, the Committee considered the overall context of performance including a number of factors such as the Williams & Glyn transaction.
The Committee believed such factors were already adequately reflected across the performance categories and that the overall vesting outcome above was fair and appropriate.
101 Annual report on remuneration 2014 LTI vesting amount included in the total remuneration table audited Ross McEwan was granted an LTI award in March 2014.
The performance conditions as set out on the previous page ended on 31 December 2016 and the award is due to vest in March 2017.
The average share price over the last three months of the financial year has been used to estimate the vesting value.
Ross McEwan Vested Performance category % vesting Maximum RBS shares 1 RBS shares Value 2 Economic Profit 82% 305,064 244,052 Relative TSR 0% 305,064 Safe & Secure Bank 88% 305,064 268,457 Customers & People 0% 305,064 Overall vesting outcome based on above 42% 512,509 1,030,143 Maximum capped shares available to vest 915,193 Notes: 1 The maximum number of shares is calculated in line with the underlying award structure where each of the four performance categories could give rise to shares worth 100% of salary at grant but with the overall maximum capped at 300% of salary at grant.
The percentage vesting under the Economic Profit category has been rounded from 82% to 80% when calculating the number of vested shares in order to maintain the overall weighted vesting outcome at 42%.
2 Based on a RBS share price of 2.01, the average over the three month period from October to December 2016.
2015 and 2016 LTI awards to executive directors current assessment audited The table represents an early indication of potential vesting outcomes only based on the position at 31 December 2016.
Subject to the assessment of performance conditions over a three year period, these LTI awards will vest in years four and five from the date of grant.
Details of the final performance assessment and any use of discretion will be disclosed in the remuneration report for the relevant year.
Performance for Vesting at Performance for Vesting at 2015 current 2016 current Performance measure Weighting minimum vesting minimum maximum vesting maximum assessment assessment Performance Good progress Minimum economic ahead of the 100% and currently Currently tracking Economic Profit 25% 25% profit targets Strategic favourable to behind target range Plan target set TSR at upper Below median Below median TSR at median of quartile of Relative TSR 25% 20% 100% performance for performance for comparator group comparator vesting vesting group CET1 ratio is in CET1 ratio is in Target ranges set for: range for vesting.
CET1 ratio and Safe & Secure Bank 25% Vesting between 0% 100% Cost:income ratio Cost:income ratio Cost:income ratio qualified by Committee discretion is broadly in line currently tracking taking into account the margin by with target behind target range which targets have been missed Customer & or exceeded Customer & People Target ranges set for: People measures measures currently Net Promoter Score, Customers & People 25% currently tracking Net Trust Score and tracking behind behind target Employee Engagement target range range LTI awards granted during 2016 audited Face value of Number of shares % vesting at minimum and Performance Grant date award 000s awarded 1 maximum Requirements 2 Conditional share awards subject to Ross McEwan 8 March 2016 2,680 1,187,207 Between 0% - 100% performance conditions, as set out above, with minimum vesting measured over the three year period from Ewen Stevenson 8 March 2016 2,150 952,424 as set out above 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018 Notes: 1 The number of shares awarded was calculated in line with the regulatory cap that limits variable pay to the level of fixed pay and for this award equated to 268% of salary, The award price of 2.2574 was calculated based on the average share price over five business days prior to the grant date.
2 The awards are eligible to vest in equal tranches in 2020 and 2021, subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
Malus provisions will apply up until vesting and clawback provisions will also apply for a period of seven years from the date of grant.
102 Annual report on remuneration Performance conditions for LTI awards to be granted to Measure: The key measures in this category are the executive directors in 2017, for the 2016 performance year achievement of pre-determined Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 This will be the last LTI award under the current remuneration and Cost:income C:I ratios.
policy, with any subsequent awards being made under the new remuneration policy, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 Performance target and weightings AGM.
A three year performance period will apply until 31 Category Metrics and weighting Performance target December 2019.
Subject to the achievement of the performance conditions, shares will vest 50% four years from the date of grant CET1 ratio CET1 ratio target of 13% with the remaining 50% vesting pro rata between years five to Safe & 12.5% seven from grant.
Any awards that vest will be subject to a six Secure month retention period.
Bank C:I ratio C:I ratio target of 56% Awards granted to executive directors in March 2017 will be 12.5% subject to four equally weighted performance categories, each able to vest up to 100% of base salary, subject to the maximum award that is possible under the policy and the regulatory cap.
Customers & People 25% Details of the performance measures and the Committees Reason: These measures reward management for building a rationale for selecting them are set out below.
customer-focused business with engaged employees.
Measure: Net Promoter Scores NPS and Net Trust Scores Economic Profit 25% NTS will be used.
Employee engagement will be measured Reason: Economic Profit, being a risk-adjusted financial against the Global Financial Services GFS norm.
measure, is consistent with regulatory requirements and provides a balance between measuring growth and the cost of capital Performance target and weightings employed in delivering that growth.
Category Metrics and weighting Performance target Measure: Economic Profit for RBS defined as profit after tax less Advocacy preference share charges less tangible net asset value multiplied 7.5% Significant progress on NPS and Customers by the cost of equity.
Trust NTS scores & People 5% Performance target and weightings Engagement Employee Engagement Index one Weighting Performance target Vesting range 12.5% point above GFS norm Target consistent with the achievement of 25% RBSs strategic long term return on equity 25% - 100% The overall vesting under the Safe & Secure Bank and target Customers & People categories will be qualified by the Committees discretion taking into account changes in circumstances over the performance period, the margin by which Relative Total Shareholder Return 25% individual targets have been missed or exceeded, and any other Reason: Relative TSR provides a direct connection between relevant factors.
executive directors awards and relative returns delivered to shareholders.
In line with previous practice, the Economic Profit is considered Measure: The measure compares performance against a group to be commercially sensitive.
Within the Customers category, of comparator banks.
The TSR comparator group was updated new metrics are being developed which will target trust and for awards made in 2016 to more accurately reflect the business advocacy, specific to customers on a segmental basis, and will strategy with reduced focus on investment banking.
No changes be consistent with RBSs long-term ambition.
Further information have been made for the awards to be granted in March 2017. on the trust and advocacy targets will be disclosed in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report, to the extent permitted by Relative TSR Comparator Group commercial sensitivity.
Details of all targets and performance Weighting against these will be disclosed retrospectively after any vesting 1 Barclays 200% has been determined, in the annual report on remuneration for 2 Lloyds Banking Group 2019.
3 HSBC 100% BBVA, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole, ING, Underpin 4 to 13 Intesa San Paolo, Nordea, Santander, Societe 50% The Committee will also review financial and operational Generale, Standard Chartered, Unicredit performance against the business strategy and the risk environment prior to agreeing vesting of awards.
In assessing the Performance target and weightings risk considerations, the Committee will be advised independently Weighting Performance target Vesting range by the BRC.
If the Committee considers that the vesting outcome TSR between median and upper 25% 20% - 100% calibrated in line with the performance conditions outlined above quartile does not reflect underlying financial results, or if the Committee is not satisfied that conduct and risk management during the performance period has been effective, then the terms of the Safe & Secure Bank 25% awards allow for an underpin to be used to reduce vesting or Reason: The Safe & Secure Bank measures have a particular lapse the award.
focus on risk reduction and the building of a safe, sustainable business.
103 Annual report on remuneration Payments for loss of office audited No remuneration payment or payment for loss of office was made to directors during 2016.
Payments to past directors audited Stephen Hester and Bruce Van Saun received shares in March 2016 on the vesting of the LTI award granted in 2013 as set out below.
The assessment of RBS-wide performance measures is detailed on page 73 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Value of payments on vesting audited Stephen Hester Bruce Van Saun Maximum RBS Vested Maximum CFG Vested Performance category % vesting shares 2 RBS shares Value 3 shares 2 CFG shares Value 3 Economic Profit 62% 107,805 66,839 65,656 40,706 Relative TSR 0% 107,805 0 65,656 0 Balance Sheet & Risk 90% 107,805 97,025 65,656 59,090 Strategic Scorecard 72% 107,805 77,620 65,656 47,272 Initial vesting outcome based on above 56% 241,484 147,068 Final outcome post application of underpin 1 50% 215,718 496,799 131,377 $2,828,547 Maximum capped number of shares available to vest 323,415 196,967 Notes: 1 The Committee also considered recommendations from the BRC and concluded it would be appropriate to apply the risk and financial performance underpin in respect of the above awards.
This resulted in downward discretion being applied to reduce the final vesting outcome from 56% to 50%.
2 The maximum number of shares is calculated in line with the underlying award structure where each of the four performance categories could give rise to shares worth 100% of salary at grant but with the overall maximum capped at 300% of salary.
The number has been reduced on a pro rata basis to reflect time served by Stephen Hester.
The interests for Bruce Van Sauns award were converted to shares in Citizens Financial Group, Inc. as part of the IPO of that business.
3 Based on a RBS share price of 2.303 and Citizens Financial Group, Inc. share price of $21.53 on the date of vesting.
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors for 2016 audited A new Group Nominations and Governance Committee was established at the end of January 2016, replacing the former Group Nominations Committee, with an expanded remit and a reduced number of members.
The RCR BOC and CIB BOC were stood down at the end of January and February 2016 respectively.
The US steering group was stood down in 2016 and a new US Risk Committee was established to comply with US Enhanced Prudential Standards and the first meeting took place in May 2016.
The total fees paid during 2016 are set out below.
The Benefits column includes private medical cover.
2 In line with market practice, non-executive directors are reimbursed expenses incurred in connection with their attendance at Board meetings.
To the extent that HMRC determines that any amounts are taxable, RBS will settle the associated tax liability on behalf of the non-executive director.
3 Under the Other column, Sandy Crombie received fees as the Senior Independent Director and Morten Friis received fees for his work on the US steering group until April 2016.
The US Risk Committee was established with Morten Friis and Baroness Noakes receiving fees as Chairman and member of the Committee respectively.
Robert Gillespie received fees for his role as an advisor to the NatWest Markets formerly CIB CEO and senior management.
4 Frank Dangeard and Mike Rogers joined the Board on 16 May 2016 and 26 January 2016 respectively.
Key to table: Noms & Gov Group Nominations and Governance Committee GAC Group Audit Committee RemCo Group Performance and Remuneration Committee BRC Board Risk Committee SBC Sustainable Banking Committee BOC Board Oversight Committee for the RCR, NatWest Markets formerly CIB and GRG business areas 104 Annual report on remuneration Directors interests in shares and shareholding requirements audited The current shareholding requirement is to hold shares to the value of 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 125% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
Under the proposed new policy, the requirement will be increased to 400% of salary for the Chief Executive and 250% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer, as detailed in the remuneration policy section of this report.
Shareholding requirements for executive directors 3,113,053 1,721,557 Ewen Ross McEwan 2,500,000 1,000,000 Stevenson 4,000,000 2,000,000 0 2,000,000 4,000,000 0 2,000,000 4,000,000 Value of shares held Current requirement Proposed new requirement Value of shares held Current requirement Proposed new requirement Notes: 1 Ross McEwan holds 259,455 shares from his 2015 and 2016 fixed share allowances that are included in the total shares beneficially owned below but these have been excluded from the shareholding requirements calculation as he will transfer these shares to charity at the end of the retention period.
2 Value of shares held is based on the share price of 2.246 as at 31 December 2016.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the share price ranged from 1.489 to 3.02.
Share interests held by directors Shares owned at 31 December 2016 Unvested or date of cessation if earlier Long-term incentive awards Ross McEwan 1,645,498 2,519,886 Ewen Stevenson 766,499 1,818,809 Howard Davies 41,000 Sandy Crombie 20,000 Frank Dangeard Alison Davis 20,000 Morten Friis 20,000 Robert Gillespie 25,000 Penny Hughes 562 Brendan Nelson 12,001 Baroness Noakes 41,000 Mike Rogers No other director had an interest in the company's ordinary shares during the year or held a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the company at 31 December 2016, at 1 January 2016 or date of appointment if later.
The interests shown above include shares held by persons closely associated with the directors.
As at 23 February 2017, there were no changes to the directors' interests in shares shown in the table above.
105 Annual report on remuneration Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The graph below shows the performance of RBS over the past eight years in terms of TSR compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The TSR for FTSE UK banks for the same period has been added for comparison.
Source: Datastream 250 200 150 FTSE100 FTSEUKBanks RBS 100 50 0 2008YE 2009YE 2010YE 2011YE 2012YE 2013YE 2014YE 2015YE 2016YE Chief Executive pay over same period 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 2014 2015 2016 Total remuneration 000s 393 RM 1,878 3,492 3,493 1,647 3,687 1,646 1,646 1,235 SH Annual bonus against maximum opportunity 0% 85% 0% 0% 0% n a n a n a LTI vesting rates against maximum opportunity 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 72.85% 62% 56% Notes: 1 2013 remuneration includes Stephen Hester SH as CEO for the period to 30 September and Ross McEwan RM for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2013.
2 Figures have been amended where appropriate to reflect any restatement of prior year amounts, for example, to reflect the actual rather than estimated value of LTI vestings as part of the total remuneration figure and any revisions to the value of benefits provided.
Change in Chief Executive pay compared with employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration for the Chief Executive between 2015 and 2016 compared with the percentage change in the average remuneration of RBS employees based in the UK.
In each case, remuneration is based on salary, benefits and annual bonus.
Salary Benefits Annual Bonus 2015 to 2016 change 2015 to 2016 change 2015 to 2016 change Chief Executive 1 0% 0% n a UK employees 2 4.51% 4.18% 4.86% Notes: 1 Executive directors are not eligible for an annual bonus.
Standard benefit funding for executive directors remained unchanged between 2015 and 2016.
The benefits for the Chief Executive excludes other benefits such as travel assistance in connection with company business and relocation benefits, the value of which is disclosed each year in the total remuneration table.
In 2016, Ross McEwan also received a fixed share allowance as part of his fixed pay.
2 The size of the percentage increase for fixed pay elements to 2016 is partly due to the one-off impact of removing incentives for certain frontline roles.
The data represents full year salary costs of the UK based employee population, which covers the majority of RBS employees and is considered to be the most representative comparator group.
106 Annual report on remuneration Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison of remuneration expenditure against other distributions and charges.
2016 2015 1 m m change Remuneration paid to all employees 2 4,670 5,208 10.3% Distributions to holders of ordinary shares Distributions to holders of preference shares and paid-in equity 3 1,697 385 341% Taxation and other charges recognised in the income statement: - Social security, Bank levy and Corporation tax 747 597 25.1% - Irrecoverable VAT and other indirect taxes incurred by RBS 4 697 691 0.9% Notes: 1 Numbers exclude discontinued operations, principally CFG in 2015.
2 Remuneration paid to all employees represents total staff expenses per Note 3 to the Financial Statements, exclusive of social security and other staff costs.
3 Includes final payment relating to the Dividend Access Share of 1,193 million in 2016.
4 Input VAT and other indirect taxes not recoverable by RBS due to it being partially exempt.
The items above have been included as they reflect the key stakeholders for RBS and the major categories of distributions and charges made by RBS.
Summary of the principal activity of the Committee in 2016 Consideration of matters relating to directors remuneration The new executive director remuneration policy and any issues Membership of the Group Performance and Remuneration arising under the accountability review process were considered Committee at the majority of meetings.
Set out below is a summary of other All members of the Committee are independent non-executive key activities considered by the Committee.
The Committee held seven scheduled meetings in First quarter 2016 and a further two ad hoc meetings.
2015 performance reviews and remuneration arrangements Attended for members and attendees of the Executive Committee and scheduled high earners.
Sandy Crombie Chairman 7 7 Approval of variable pay pools and the 2015 Directors Alison Davis 7 7 Remuneration Report.
Robert Gillespie 7 7 Assessment of the performance of LTI awards granted in prior years and performance targets for 2016 awards.
Mike Rogers was appointed as a new member of the Committee Executive Committee members 2016 objectives.
The role and responsibilities of the Committee Second quarter The Committee is responsible for: Key external trends and regulatory updates.
approving the remuneration policy for all employees and Annual review of external advisers to the Committee.
reviewing the effectiveness of its implementation: Remuneration governance across legal entities and the reviewing performance and making recommendations to the impact of the Senior Managers Regime.
Board on remuneration arrangements for executive directors: Annual review of remuneration policy for all employees.
approving remuneration arrangements for members and Third quarter formal attendees of the Executive Committee and employees 2016 half-year performance reviews for members and with total annual compensation which exceeds an amount attendees of the Executive Committee and high earners.
determined by the Committee, currently 1 million: and Considering the future pay construct for all employees.
setting the remuneration framework and principles for Interim business performance assessment.
employees identified as Material Risk Takers falling within the Divestment principles update.
scope of UK regulatory requirements.
In mitigating potential conflicts of interest, directors are not involved in decisions regarding their own remuneration and Fourth quarter remuneration advisers are appointed by the Committee rather Review of the implementation of the remuneration policy.
The terms of reference of the Committee are 2016 preliminary pay elements including bonus pool, deferral reviewed annually and available on rbs.
Executive Committee members annual objectives for 2017.
Stakeholder engagement and feedback on new remuneration policy for executive directors.
Review of draft Directors Remuneration Report for 2016.
107 Annual report on remuneration Performance evaluation process Statement of shareholding voting The Committee has considered the findings of the annual review The tables below set out the voting by shareholders on the of the effectiveness of the Committee which was conducted resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration at the internally by the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel.
AGM held in May 2016 and the resolution at the AGM in June 2014 when the Directors Remuneration Policy was last Positive comments were received on moving to a reduced approved.
number of meetings with appropriate use of delegation, giving time to focus on important issues such as the future pay Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 AGM construct.
There was good evidence of challenge on key points of For Against Total votes cast Withheld principle during debates and overall it was felt that the dynamic of 42,686,046,288 188,029,796 42,874,076,084 6,603,412 the Committee worked well.
The Masterclass sessions, where in- 99.56% 0.44% depth consideration is given to specific matters, continued to be well received by members.
Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM For Against Total votes cast Withheld On areas for development, the importance of papers containing 20,893,215,888 70,382,756 20,963,598,644 170,307,216 all the relevant information was highlighted and there was still 99.66% 0.34% scope to further improve the articulation of how reward links to strategy.
There was also a suggestion that it would be helpful for the Committee to have another member.
Subsequently, the Shareholder dilution Board agreed that Mike Rogers would be appointed to the During the ten year period to 31 December 2016, awards made Committee with effect from 1 January 2017. that could require new issue shares to be used in connection with the company's employee share plans represented 5.4% of the Potential areas were identified for future focus by the Committee company's issued ordinary share capital, leaving an available including absolute pay levels, competitiveness and internal dilution headroom of 4.6%.
The company meets its employee fairness.
share plan obligations through a combination of new issue shares and market purchase shares.
Advisers to the Committee The Committee reviews its selection of advisers annually.
 LLP PwC was appointed as the Committees remuneration advisers on 14 September 2010 following a review of potential advisers, and the appointment was Sandy Crombie reconfirmed by the Committee in May 2016 after an annual Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration review of the quality of the advice received and fees charged.
Committee PwC is a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct in relation to 23 February 2017 remuneration consulting in the UK.
PwC also provide professional services in the ordinary course of business including assurance, advisory, tax and legal advice to RBS subsidiaries.
There are processes in place to ensure the advice received by the Committee is independent of any support provided to management.
As well as receiving advice from PwC in 2016, the Committee took account at meetings of the views of the Chairman: Chief Executive: Chief Financial Officer: Chief HR Officer: the Director of Organisation and Performance: the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel: the Chief Risk Officer: and the Chief Conduct and Regulatory Affairs Officer.
The fees paid to PwC for advising the Committee in relation to directors remuneration are charged on a time cost basis and in 2016 amounted to 214,706 excluding VAT 2015 - 121,358.
The increase in fees is a result of additional work undertaken during 2016 in developing the new directors remuneration policy.
108 Other Remuneration Disclosures Remuneration of eight highest paid senior executives below Board 1 Executive 1 Executive 2 Executive 3 Executive 4 Executive 5 Executive 6 Executive 7 Executive 8 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Fixed pay cash 800 800 675 688 588 638 575 450 800 800 675 688 588 638 288 225 Fixed allowances Annual bonus Long-term incentive awards vested value 175 175 412 261 167 250 Total remuneration 2 1,775 1,775 1,762 1,637 1,343 1,276 1,113 675 Notes: 1 Remuneration earned in 2016 for eight members of the Executive Committee.
2 Disclosure includes prior year long-term incentive awards which vested during 2016.
The amounts shown reflect the value of vested awards using the share price on the day the awards vested.
Accountability review process and malus clawback How risk is reflected in our remuneration process An accountability review process is operated that allows RBS to The RBS remuneration policy explicitly aligns remuneration with respond in instances where new information would change the effective risk management.
Focus on risk is achieved through variable pay decisions made in previous years and or the clear risk input into objectives, performance reviews, the decisions to be made in the current year.
Under the determination of variable pay pools and incentive plan design as accountability review process, RBS can apply malus and well as the application of malus and clawback.
supported in this by the BRC and the RBS Risk function.
Malus can be applied to reduce if appropriate to zero the A robust process is used to assess risk performance.
A range of amount of any variable pay awards prior to payment taking measures are considered, specifically the overall Risk Profile: place.
Credit, Regulatory and Conduct Risk: Operational Risk: Clawback provisions can also be applied to recover awards Enterprise Risk: and Market Risk.
The steps we take to ensure that have vested.
appropriate and thorough risk adjustment are also fully disclosed and discussed with the PRA and the FCA.
Any variable pay awarded to Material Risk Takers from 1 January 2015 onwards is subject to clawback for seven years from the Variable pay pool determination date of grant.
For awards made in respect of the 2016 For the 2016 performance year, RBS has operated a multi-step performance year onwards, this period has been extended to ten process which is a control function led assessment to determine years for executive directors and other Senior Managers under performance and therefore the appropriate bonus pool by the Senior Managers Regime where there are outstanding franchise and function.
internal or regulatory investigations at the end of the normal seven-year clawback period.
Malus and clawback can be applied The process considers a balanced scorecard of performance to current and former employees.
assessments at the level of each franchise or support function.
The assessments are made across financial, customer and There are a number of trigger events under which malus and people measures.
Risk and conduct assessments at the same clawback will be considered including: franchise or functional level are then undertaken to ensure that the individual participating in or being responsible for performance achieved without the appropriate risk and conduct conduct which results in significant losses for RBS: controls and culture is not inappropriately rewarded.
the individual failing to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety: BRC will then review any material risk and conduct events and if reasonable evidence of an individuals misbehaviour or appropriate an underpin may be applied to the individual material error: business and function bonus pools and where appropriate to the RBS or the individuals relevant business unit suffering a overall RBS bonus pool.
BRC may recommend reduction of a material failure of risk management: and bonus pool if it considers that risk and conduct performance is in the case of malus only, circumstances where there has unacceptable or that the impact of poor risk management has yet been a material downturn in financial performance.
to be fully reflected in the respective inputs.
How have we applied this in practice?
Following further review against overall performance and During 2016 a number of issues and events were considered conduct, the Chief Executive will make a final recommendation to under the accountability review framework.
The outcomes the Committee, informed by all the previous steps in the process covered a range of actions including: reduction and forfeiture of and his strategic view of the business.
The Committee will then unvested awards through malus: reduction of current year make an independent decision on the final bonus pool taking all variable pay awards: dismissal with forfeiture of unvested of these earlier steps into account.
awards: and suspension of awards pending further investigation.
109 Other Remuneration Disclosures Our remuneration policy for all employees The remuneration policy supports the business strategy and is designed to promote the long-term success of RBS.
It aims to reward employees for delivering good performance against targets provided this is achieved in a manner consistent with our values and within acceptable risk parameters.
The remuneration policy applies the same principles to all employees including Material Risk Takers MRTs subject to UK regulatory requirements 1.
The current key elements underpinning the remuneration policy are set out below.
Element of pay Objective Operation Base salary To aid recruitment and retention Base salaries are reviewed annually and should reflect the talents, skills and of high performing individuals competencies that the individual brings to the business.
whilst paying no more than is necessary.
To provide a competitive level of fixed cash remuneration, reflecting the skills and experience required, and to discourage excessive risk taking.
Role-based To provide fixed pay that reflects Allowances are provided to certain employees in key roles in line with market allowance the skills and experience required practice and qualify as fixed remuneration for regulatory requirements.
are delivered in cash and or shares depending on the level of the allowance and the seniority of the recipient.
Shares are subject to an appropriate retention period, not less than six months.
Benefits To provide a range of flexible and In most jurisdictions, employee benefits or a cash equivalent are provided including market competitive benefits.
To from a flexible benefits account.
pension encourage planning for retirement and long-term savings.
Annual bonus To support a culture where The annual bonus pool is based on a balanced scorecard of measures employees recognise the including Customer, Financial, Risk and People measures.
Allocation from the importance of serving customers pool depends on performance of the franchise or function and the individual.
well and are rewarded for Individual performance assessment is supported by a structured performance superior performance.
Immediate cash awards are limited to a maximum of 2,000.
Under the deferral arrangements a significant proportion of annual bonus awards for our more senior employees are deferred over a three to seven year period.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
For MRTs, a minimum of 50% of any annual bonus is delivered in shares and subject to a minimum six month retention period post vesting in line with regulatory requirements.
Guaranteed awards are only used in very limited circumstances in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Long-term To support a culture where good RBS provides certain employees in senior roles with long-term incentive incentive performance against a full range awards.
Awards are structured as performance-vesting shares.
Performance awards of measures will be rewarded.
To is typically measured over a three year period.
For awards made in respect of encourage the creation of value the 2016 performance year, vesting will take place over a three to seven year over the long term and to align period.
further the rewards of the participants with the returns to The amount of the award that vests may vary between 0% -100% depending shareholders.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions and a minimum six month retention period applies to MRTs post vesting.
Other share To offer employees in certain Employees in certain countries are eligible to contribute to share plans which plans jurisdictions the opportunity to are not subject to performance conditions.
Note: 1 The EBA has issued criteria for identifying MRT roles i. e. staff whose professional activities have a material influence over RBSs performance or risk profile.
The criteria for identifying MRTs are both qualitative based on the nature of the role and quantitative i. e. those who exceed the stipulated total remuneration threshold based on the previous years total remuneration.
The qualitative criteria can be summarised as: staff within the management body: senior management: other staff with key functional or managerial responsibilities: staff, individually or as part of a Committee, with authority to approve new business products or to commit to credit risk exposures and market risk transactions above certain levels.
The quantitative criteria are: individuals earning 500,000 or more in the previous year: individuals in the top 0.3% of earners in the previous year: individuals who earned more than the lowest paid identified staff per the qualitative criteria, subject to specific exceptions in the criteria.
In accordance with UK regulatory requirements and internal dealing rules that apply to employees, the conditions attached to discretionary share-based awards prohibit the use of any personal hedging strategies to lessen the impact of a reduction in value of such awards.
These conditions are explicitly acknowledged and accepted by employees when any share-based awards are granted.
110 Other Remuneration Disclosures Remuneration of MRTs 4.
Sign-on and severance payments The quantitative disclosures below are made in accordance with RBS does not operate Sign-on awards.
Guaranteed variable Article 450 of the EU Capital Requirements Regulation in relation remuneration may be used for new hires in compensation for to 665 employees who have been identified as MRTs.
awards foregone in their previous company.
Three such payments totalling 442,695 are included in the tables above.
Aggregate remuneration expenditure This relates to commitments made on recruitment in respect of Aggregate remuneration expenditure in respect of 2016 three new employees.
These awards are still subject to deferral.
performance was as follows: Franchises No severance payments were made during the financial year in PBB, CPB and NatWest Markets formerly CIB Rest of RBS Total excess of contractual payments, local policies, standards or m m m statutory amounts, other than one payment of 219,500 made in 211.6 143.5 355.1 commercial settlement of legal proceedings related to the early 2.
Amounts and form of fixed and variable remuneration termination of a contract of employment.
Fixed remuneration for 2016 All staff total remuneration Consisted of salaries, allowances, pensions and benefits.
The average salary for all employees is 32,620.
Senior management Other MRTs Total 5,545 employees earn between 100,000 and 250,000.
Number of beneficiaries 11 654 665 1,025 employees earn total remuneration over 250,000. mmm Number of Number of Total fixed remuneration 17.4 205.7 223.1 Total remuneration by band for all employees employees employees earning 1 million 2016 2015 Variable remuneration awarded for 2016 performance 1.0m - 1.5m 48 53 Variable remuneration consisted of a combination of annual 1.5m - 2.0m 20 24 bonus and long-term incentive awards, deferred over a three to 2.0m - 2.5m 10 11 seven year period in accordance with regulatory requirements.
2.5m - 3.0m 5 7 Under the RBS bonus deferral structure, cash awards are limited 3.0m - 3.5m 0 2 to 2,000 per employee.
3.5m - 4.0m 0 2 Senior Annual bonus awards management Other MRTs Total 4.0m - 4.5m 3 0 Number of beneficiaries 510 510 4.5m - 5.0m 0 1 mmm 5.0m - 6.0m 1 0 Variable remuneration cash 1.2 1.2 6.0m - 7.0m 0 1 Deferred remuneration bonds 11.3 11.3 Total 87 101 Deferred remuneration shares 86.3 86.3 Notes: 1 Total remuneration in the table above includes fixed pay, pension and benefit Long-term incentive awards vest subject to the extent to which funding and variable pay including actual value of LTI vesting in 2016 after the performance conditions are met and can result in zero payment.
2 Executive directors are not included.
The table is based on an exchange rate Senior where applicable of 1.224 to 1 as at 31 December 2016 and amounts disclosed Long-term incentive awards management Other MRTs Total for 2015 have been restated using the same exchange rate so that comparison can be made on a like for like basis.
Number of beneficiaries 10 98 108 mmm Employees that earned total remuneration of over 1 million in 2016 represent just 0.1% of our employees.
This number reduces Long-term incentive awards 17.2 16.2 33.4 to 72 employees if we exclude pension and benefit funding.
The variable component of total remuneration for MRTs at RBS These employees include those who manage major businesses shall not exceed 100% of the fixed component.
Based on the and functions with responsibility for significant assets, earnings or information disclosed above, the average ratio between fixed and areas of strategic activity and can be grouped as follows: variable remuneration for 2016 is approximately 1 to 0.6.
The CEOs responsible for each area and their direct reports.
Employees managing large businesses within a franchise.
Outstanding deferred remuneration through 2016 Income generators responsible for high levels of income The table below includes deferred remuneration awarded or paid including those involved in managing trading activity and out in 2016 in respect of prior performance years.
Deferred supporting clients with more complex financial transactions, remuneration reduced during the year relates to long-term including financial restructuring.
incentives lapsed when performance conditions are not met, Those responsible for managing our balance sheet and long-term incentives and deferred awards forfeited on leaving liquidity and funding positions across the business.
and malus adjustments of prior year deferred awards and longEmployees managing the successful disposal of assets in term incentives.
Senior Capital Resolution and reducing RBSs capital requirements.
management Other MRTs Category of deferred remuneration m m Unvested from prior year 34.2 200.8 Awarded during the financial year 17.5 129.4 Paid out 7.4 113.0 Reduced from prior years 1.9 21.8 Unvested at year end 42.4 195.5 111 Compliance report Statement of compliance Ongoing processes for the identification, evaluation and RBS is committed to high standards of corporate governance, management of the principal risks faced by RBS operated business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
throughout the period from 1 January 2016 to 23 February 2017, the date the directors approved the Annual Report & Accounts.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016, RBS has These processes include the semi-annual Control Environment complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Certification process which requires senior members of the Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council executive and management to assess the adequacy and dated April 2016 the Code except in relation to provision effectiveness of their internal control frameworks and certify that D. 2.2 that the Group Performance and Remuneration their business or function is compliant with the requirements of Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and the UK Corporate Governance remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors.
The policies that govern these processes considers that this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for and reports on internal controls arising from them are reviewed the Board and this is an approach RBS has adopted for a number by the Board and meet the requirements of the Financial of years.
Remuneration for the executive directors is first Reporting Councils Guidance On Risk Management Internal considered by the Group Performance and Remuneration Control & Related Financial & Business Reporting issued in Committee which then makes recommendations to the Board for September 2014. consideration.
This approach allows all non-executive directors, and not just those who are members of the Group Performance RBS operates a three lines of defence model, which provides a and Remuneration Committee, to participate in decisions on the framework for responsibilities and accountabilities across the executive directors and the Chairmans remuneration and also organisation.
As part of its second line of defence role, the Risk allows the executive directors to input to the decision on the function oversees and challenges the firm-wide management of Chairmans remuneration.
The Board believes this approach is risk and the efficacy of the related controls.
In addition, the Risk very much in line with the spirit of the Code and no director is function is responsible for developing material risk policies and involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
We strategic frameworks for the business to use.
do not anticipate any changes to our approach on this aspect of the Code.
Information on how RBS has applied the main The effectiveness of RBSs internal controls is reviewed regularly principles of the Code can be found in the Corporate governance by the Board, the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk report on pages 57 to 111.
A copy of the Code can be found at Committee.
Internal Audit undertakes independent assurance www.
uk activities and provides reports to the committees of Board and executive management on the quality and effectiveness of RBS has also implemented the recommendations arising from governance, risk management and internal controls to monitor, the Walker Review and complied in all material respects with the manage and mitigate risks in achieving the banks objectives.
In Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees addition, the Board receives risk management reports at each issued in September 2012 and April 2016. scheduled Board meeting.
Executive management committees in each of the RBS businesses also receive regular reports on Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, specific standards of significant risks facing their business and how they are being corporate governance and business and financial disclosures and controlled.
Details of the banks approach to risk management controls apply to companies with securities registered in the US.
are given in the Capital & Risk Management section.
RBS complies with all applicable sections of the US SarbanesOxley Act of 2002, subject to a number of exceptions available to RBS has made progress strengthening the control environment in foreign private issuers.
However, more work is required and RBS continues on its journey of improvement, building on the established control Internal control environment, strengthening and remediating where appropriate.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the system of internal Areas of particular focus during 2016 included further work to controls that is designed to maintain effective and efficient develop and enhance the risk appetite framework in support of a operations, compliant with applicable laws and regulations.
The robust and holistic control approach.
In parallel with this, progress system of internal controls is designed to manage, or mitigate, was made in further embedding a consistent end-to-end risk and risk to an acceptable residual level rather than eliminate it control assessment process.
These activities, together with entirely.
Systems of internal control can only provide reasonable complementary work-streams aimed at developing, enhancing and not absolute assurance against material misstatement, fraud and embedding a strong and dynamic risk culture across each of or loss.
the franchises and functions, will continue in 2017.
112 Compliance report The remediation of known control issues remained an important Changes in internal control focus of the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk There was no change in RBSs internal control over financial Committee during 2016.
For further information on their oversight reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report of remediation of the most significant issues, please refer to the that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially Report of the Group Audit Committee and the Report of the affect, RBSs internal control over financial reporting.
The Group Audit Committee has received confirmation that management has taken, or is taking, action to The New York Stock Exchange remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified through As a foreign private issuer with American Depository Shares RBSs control framework.
The Group Audit Committee and the representing ordinary shares, preference shares and debt Board Risk Committee will continue to focus on such remediation securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange the NYSE, activity, particularly in view of the transformation agenda.
RBS is not required to comply with all of the NYSE standards applicable to US domestic companies the NYSE Standards While not being part of the banks system of Internal control, the provided that it follows home country practice in lieu of the NYSE banks independent auditors present to the Group Audit Standards and discloses any significant ways in which its Committee reports that include details of any significant internal corporate governance practices differ from the NYSE Standards.
control deficiencies they have identified.
Further, the system of RBS is also required to provide an Annual Written Affirmation to internal controls is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK the NYSE of its compliance with the mandatory applicable NYSE and overseas.
Additional details of regulatory oversight are given Standards.
in the Capital & Risk Management section.
The Group Audit Committee fully complies with the mandatory Internal control over financial reporting provisions of the NYSE Standards including by reference to the RBS is required to comply with Section 404 of the US Sarbanesrules of the Exchange Act that relate to the composition, Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
In March 2016 over financial reporting as of 31 December 2016.
RBS submitted its required annual written affirmation to the NYSE confirming its full compliance with those and other RBS has assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over applicable provisions.
More detailed information about the Group financial reporting as of 31 December 2016 based on the criteria Audit Committee and its work during 2016 is set out in the Group set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Audit Committee report on pages 71 to 78.
Treadway Commission in the 2013 publication of Internal Control - Integrated Framework'.
RBS has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and is satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSE Standards, Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of subject to the following departures: i NYSE Standards require 31 December 2016, RBSs internal control over financial the majority of the Board to be independent.
The NYSE reporting is effective.
Standards contain different tests from the Code for determining whether a director is independent.
RBS follows the Codes RBSs auditors have audited the effectiveness of RBSs internal requirements in determining the independence of its directors control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified and currently has 9 independent non-executive directors, one of opinion.
whom is the senior independent director ii The NYSE Standards require non-management directors to hold regular Management's report on RBSs internal control over financial sessions without management present and that independent reporting will be filed with the Securities and Exchange directors meet at least once a year.
The Code requires the Commission as part of the 2016 Annual Report on Form 20-F. Chairman to hold meetings with non-executive directors without the executives present and non-executive directors are to meet Disclosure controls and procedures without the Chairman present at least once a year to appraise the As required by US regulations, management including the Chief Chairmans performance and RBS complies with the Executive and Chief Financial Officer have conducted an requirements of the Code.
iii The NYSE Standards require that evaluation of the effectiveness and design of RBSs disclosure the nominating corporate governance committee of a listed controls and procedures as defined in the Exchange Act rules company be composed entirely of independent directors.
Based on this evaluation, management including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer concluded that RBSs disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
113 Compliance report The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Group The NYSE Standards require that the compensation committee Nominations and Governance Committee, which is permitted must have direct responsibility to review and approve the Chief under the Code since the Chairman was considered Executives remuneration.
As stated at the start of this independent on appointment.
The terms of reference of the Compliance Report, in the case of RBS, the Board, rather than Group Nominations and Governance Committee differ in certain the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, reserves limited respects from the requirements set out in the NYSE the authority to make the final determination of the remuneration Standards, including because the Group Nominations and of the Chief Executive v The NYSE Standards require listed Governance Committee does not have responsibility for companies to adopt and disclose corporate governance overseeing the evaluation of management iv The NYSE guidelines.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016, RBS standards require that the compensation committee of a listed has complied with all of the provisions of the Code subject to the company be composed of entirely of independent directors.
exception described above and the Code does not require RBS Although the members of the Group Performance and to disclose the full range of corporate governance guidelines with Remuneration Committee are deemed independent in which it complies vi The NYSE Standards require listed compliance with the provisions of the Code, the Board has not companies to adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and assessed the independence of the members of the Group ethics for directors, officers and employees, and promptly Performance and Remuneration Committee and the Group disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive Performance and Remuneration Committee has not assessed officers.
RBS has adopted a code of conduct which applies to all the independence of any compensation consultant, legal counsel directors, officers and employees and is supplemented by a or other adviser, in each case, in accordance with the number of key policies and guidance dealing with matters independence tests prescribed by the NYSE Standards.
including, among others, anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, sanctions, confidentiality, inside information, health, safety and environment, conflicts of interest, market conduct and management records.
The Code of Conduct is available to view on RBSs website at rbs.
This Compliance report forms part of the Corporate governance report and the Report of the directors.
114 Report of the directors On 1 January 2017 RBS made a number of key changes to the The directors present their report together with the audited legal entity structure as detailed below to support the move accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016. towards a ring-fenced structure.
There are also plans to make further changes prior to 1 January 2019.
Group structure The company is a holding company owning the entire issued NatWest Holdings Limited NatWest Holdings ordinary share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the RBS introduced an intermediate holding company, NatWest principal direct operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
Holdings, as a direct subsidiary of RBS plc.
This is an interim Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the company structure as NatWest Holdings is expected to become a direct are shown in Note 7 on pages 396 and 397.
A full list of subsidiary of RBSG in mid 2018. subsidiary undertakings of the company is shown in Note 15 on pages 400 to 415.
National Westminster Bank Plc NatWest and Adam & Company Group PLC Adam & Co transferred from being direct Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April subsidiaries of RBS plc, and Ulster Bank Ireland Holdings 2009, HM Treasury HMT owned approximately 70.3% of the Unlimited Company UBIH transferred from being a direct enlarged ordinary share capital of the company.
In December subsidiary of Ulster Bank Limited, to become direct subsidiaries 2009, the company issued a further 25.5 billion of new capital to of NatWest Holdings.
HMT in the form of B shares.
HMT sold 630 million of its holding of the companys ordinary shares in August 2015.
In October RBS International 2015 HMT converted its entire holding of 51 billion B shares into RBSI Holdings transferred from being an indirect subsidiary of 5.1 billion new ordinary shares of 1 each in the company.
RBS plc to become a direct subsidiary of RBSG.
The intention is for RBS International's operating companies to remain as The final dividend payment on the Dividend Access Share DAS subsidiaries of RBSI Holdings.
owned by HMT of 1.2 billion was paid in March 2016, effecting the immediate retirement of the DAS which was redesignated as a single B share and subsequently cancelled.
NatWest bought Lombard North Central PLC and RBS Invoice Finance Holdings Limited from RBS plc and some smaller At 31 December 2016, HMTs holding in the companys ordinary companies from other members of the Group.
Business structure RBS Group ring-fencing RBS continues to deliver on its plan to build a strong, simple and The UK ring-fencing legislation requiring the separation of fair bank for both customers and shareholders.
On 5 December essential banking services from investment banking services will 2016 the Corporate & Institutional Banking CIB business was take effect from 1 January 2019. re-branded as NatWest Markets NWM in readiness for our future ring-fenced structure: this included the renaming of the To comply with these requirements it is RBSs intention to place reportable operating segment as NatWest Markets.
NatWest the majority of the UK and Western European banking business Markets will continue to offer financing, rates and currencies in ring-fenced banking entities under an intermediate holding products to its customers.
During 2016 RBSs activities were company.
NatWest Markets will be a separate non ring-fenced organised on a franchise basis as follows: bank and The Royal Bank of Scotland International Holdings Limited RBSI Holdings will also be placed outside the ringPersonal & Business Banking PBB comprises two reportable fence, both as direct subsidiaries of RBSG.
segments, UK Personal & Business Banking UK PBB and Ulster Bank RoI.
UK PBB serves individuals and mass affluent The final ring-fenced legal structure and the actions to be taken customers in the UK together with small businesses generally up to achieve it, remain subject to, amongst other factors, additional to 2 million turnover.
UK PBB includes Ulster Bank customers regulatory, Board and other approvals as well as employee in Northern Ireland.
Ulster Bank RoI serves individuals and information and consultation procedures.
All such actions and businesses in the Republic of Ireland RoI.
their respective timings may be subject to change, or additional actions may be required, including as a result of external and Commercial & Private Banking CPB comprises three reportable internal factors including further regulatory, corporate or other segments, Commercial Banking, Private Banking and RBS developments.
Commercial Banking serves commercial and corporate customers in the UK and Western Europe.
Private Banking serves UK connected high net worth individuals and RBSI serves retail, commercial, corporate and financial institution customers in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Gibraltar and financial institution customers in Luxembourg.
115 Report of the directors NatWest Markets, formerly Corporate and Institutional Banking The Dividend Access Share DAS retirement agreement was CIB, serves UK and Western Europe corporate customers, and approved at the General Meeting of shareholders held on 25 global financial institutions, supported by trading and distribution June 2014.
The first dividend payment on the DAS of 320 platforms in the UK, US and Singapore.
million was made in the third quarter of 2014.
The balance of 1.2 billion was paid to HMT in March 2016, effecting the Capital Resolution was established to execute the sale or wind immediate retirement of the DAS which was redesignated as a down of most of the global footprint, from 38 countries to 13, and single B share and subsequently cancelled, further normalising trade finance and cash management outside the UK and Ireland.
the capital structure of RBS and removing an obstacle toward the Additionally non-strategic markets, portfolio and banking assets resumption of capital distributions.
identified are being sold or wound down.
Business review Williams & Glyn W&G refers to the business formerly intended Activities to be divested as a separate legal entity and comprises RBS RBS is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking England and Wales branch-based businesses, along with certain and other financial services.
Further details of the organisational small and medium enterprises and corporate activities across the structure and business overview of RBS, including the products UK.
During the periods presented W&G has not operated as a and services provided by each of its operating segments and the separate legal entity.
The perimeter of the segment currently competitive markets in which they operate are contained in the reported does not include certain portfolios that were intended to Business review on pages 124 to 162.
Details of the strategy for be divested such as the Scottish branch based activity of delivering the companys objectives can be found in the Strategic NatWest and NatWest Business Direct.
Central items & other includes corporate functions, such as RBS Risk factors treasury, finance, risk management, compliance, legal, RBSs future performance and results could be materially communications and human resources.
Central functions different from expected results depending on the outcome of manages RBS capital resources and RBS-wide regulatory certain potential risks and uncertainties.
Full details of these and projects and provides services to the reportable segments.
other risk factors are set out on pages 431 to 463.
Balances in relation to Citizens and the international private banking business are included in Central items in the relevant The reported results of RBS are also sensitive to the accounting periods.
policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial statements.
Details of RBSs critical accounting Results and dividends policies and key sources of accounting judgments are included in The loss attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Group for Accounting policies on pages 297 to 308. the year ended 31 December 2016 amounted to 6,955 million compared with a loss of 1,979 million for the year ended 31 RBSs approach to risk management, including its financial risk December 2015, as set out in the consolidated income statement management objectives and policies and information on RBSs on page 290. exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, is discussed in the Capital and risk management section.
The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2014, 2015 or 2016.
Financial performance In the context of prior macro-prudential policy discussions, the A review of RBSs performance during the year ended 31 Board decided to partially neutralise any impact on Core Tier 1 December 2016, including details of each operating segment, capital of coupon and dividend payments in respect of 2015 and and RBSs financial position as at that date is contained in the 2016 Group hybrid capital instruments through equity issuances Business review on pages 124 to 162. of c. 300 million.
Consequently, approximately 300 million was raised during 2015 and 2016 through the issue of new ordinary RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. shares and the Board has decided a further 300 million of new In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by RBS, equity will be issued during the course of 2017 to again partially the Dutch State successor to Fortis and Santander completed neutralise the CET1 impact of coupon and dividend payments.
the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. 116 Report of the directors Following the announcements in April 2011 by the Boards of To really live our values we continue to reinforce them in our RBSG, RBS plc, RBS Holdings and RBS N. V. a substantial part systems, our policies and processes, our communications, of the business activities of RBS N. V. had been successfully training and leadership role modelling.
transferred to RBS plc by 2014.
There is continued focus on further fide-risking the RBS N. V. balance sheet.
Ultimately, the We monitor our progress against our goals.
We gather feedback objective is that RBS N. V. is in a position to relinquish its banking from our colleagues, and through metrics and key performance licence in the Netherlands.
indicators to assess our progress and respond accordingly.
We do this in tandem with feedback from regulators and industry Business divestments bodies.
To comply with the European Commission State Aid requirements RBS agreed a series of restructuring measures.
Engaging our colleagues These include the sale of 80.01% of RBSs Global Merchant We know that building an engaged, healthy and inclusive Services business completed in 2010, the sale of substantially workforce is crucial to achieving our ambition.
Every year we ask all of the RBS Sempra Commodities joint venture business our colleagues to share their thoughts on what its like to work largely completed in 2010, the divestment of Direct Line here via our annual colleague survey OurView.
The results help Insurance Group plc completed in 2014, as well as the us monitor levels of engagement and enable our people leaders divestment of the RBS branch-based business in England and to work with their teams to make improvements.
It also helps us Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland, along with the measure the progress we are making towards our goals.
direct SME customers across the UK UK branch-based businesses.
Our most recent survey, in which almost 63,000 colleagues took During 2016 work has continued to explore means to achieve part, showed that we are changing the culture of RBS for the separation and divestment of the business previously described better.
We remain above the global financial services norm for as Williams & Glyn.
On 17 February 2017, RBS announced that it wellbeing, our inclusion scores continue to improve and there is a had been informed by HM Treasury HMT that the strong sense that managers act consistently with Our Values.
Commissioner responsible for EU competition policy plans to However, the choices weve had to make as we move RBS propose to the College of Commissioners to open proceedings to forward have taken a toll on our colleagues.
The scaling down of gather evidence on an alternative plan for RBS to meet its RBS and the impact of dealing with some difficult legacy issues remaining State Aid obligations.
If adopted, this alternative plan have contributed to a decline in the improvements in would replace the existing requirement to achieve separation and engagement, pride and leadership that we saw in 2015. divestment by 31 December 2017 of the business previously described as Williams & Glyn.
Rewarding our colleagues Our approach to performance management provides clarity for As previously disclosed, none of the proposals to acquire the our colleagues about how their contribution links to our ambition.
business received by RBS can deliver full separation and It recognises behaviour that supports our values and holds divestment before the 31 December 2017 deadline.
As RBS no individuals to account for behaviour and performance that does longer intends to pursue divestment of Williams & Glyn by way of not.
In 2016 we refreshed our behavioural framework to create an Initial Public Offering, the 600 million exchangeable bond one framework for all our colleagues.
issued to a consortium of investors, led by Centerbridge and Corsair, was redeemed on 21 October 2016 in accordance with We have a focus on paying the right wage to colleagues and our the terms of the bond.
rates of pay continue to exceed the Living Wage Foundation RBS completed its divestment of Citizens Financial Group Inc Benchmarks.
At the start of 2016 we removed sales incentives and we gave Employees every eligible frontline colleague in Personal & Business Banking Our colleagues an increase to their guaranteed pay.
This approach remains As at 31 December 2016, RBS employed 77,900 people full-time popular with our colleagues and ensures that our customers can equivalent basis, including temporary workers throughout the be certain that if they take a product from us, it has no financial world.
Details of related costs are included in Note 3 on the impact on what our colleagues are paid.
Building a healthy culture For 2017, we have simplified how we pay our clerical colleagues, Building a healthy culture that embodies Our Values is one of our consolidating bonuses, making pay fairer and easier to core priorities.
Our Values guide the way we identify the right people to serve our customers well, and how we manage, engage and reward our colleagues.
They are at the heart of both Our Standards the bank wide behavioural framework and Our Code the bank wide Code of Conduct.
117 Report of the directors We remain focused on our goals in relation to gender equality In 2016, we focused on physical, mental health and social and have played an active role in the consultation process for wellbeing.
We participated in the Global Corporate Challenge upcoming Gender Pay Gap Reporting regulations.
We intend to GCC - more than 50,000 colleagues took part helping us to win comply fully with the regulations and to make a public disclosure the GCC World Most Active Organisation Gold Award.
We also during 2017. continued to promote Lifeworks RBSs Employee Assistance Programme and launched our Mindfulness toolkit.
We continued Developing our colleagues our support of Time to Change the UKs biggest programme to In 2015, we launched Determined to Lead, a core management challenge mental health stigma.
It is the means by which leaders put our values into practice every day and is transforming the way we operate Employee consultation by creating a common language, consistent operating rhythm and We recognise employee representatives such as trade unions improving the competence of our leaders across RBS.
It provides and work councils in a number of businesses and countries.
consistent tools to lead and engage our colleagues.
This There has been ongoing engagement and discussion with those programme has continued in 2016 with over 16,000 leaders bodies given the scale of change taking place across RBS.
Management have continued to meet regularly with our European Employee Council to discuss developments and update on the In October 2016 we launched Service Excellence training, our progress of our strategic plans.
The first module introduces our Core Service Behaviours and provides an awareness of the Inclusion tools and techniques that will help us to deliver the best possible Building a more inclusive RBS is essential for our customers and service, every time.
Service Excellence gives us a shared service colleagues.
Our inclusion policy standard applies to all our language and the behaviours to help us achieve our ambition.
Since October over 34,000 colleagues have completed this module.
During 2016, we continued to roll out unconscious bias learning to all our colleagues to create a solid platform for the wider Professionalising our colleagues is important to us.
Almost 30,000 colleagues participated in closely with the Chartered Banker Institute CBI and Chartered unconscious bias training in 2016 meaning we have trained Banker Professional Standards Board CB:PSB to offer our around 66,000 colleagues across RBS to date.
Over 8,000 of our colleagues completed their CBI qualification in 2016.
We continue to work towards our goal of having at least 30% senior women in our top three leadership layers across each We are especially pleased that we achieved an Excel rating in Franchise and Function by 2020 and to be fully gender balanced the CB:PSB Foundation Standard review for 2015.
We have a positive action approach in place, only two CB:PSB member firms to have secured Earned tailored by business, according to the specific challenges they Autonomy - meaning we are exempt from quarterly monitoring face.
95% of our in-scope population have achieved the Foundation Standard.
This is a great reflection of Our disability plan will support us becoming a disability smart the focus we continue to place on professionalising our organisation by 2018.
It addresses areas for improvement colleagues.
including branch access, accessible services, improving colleague adjustment processes and inserting disability We also offer a wide range of learning which can be mandatory, checkpoints into our key processes and practices.
role specific or related to personal development.
Our mandatory learning has to be completed by everyone and is focused on We continue to focus on building an ethnically diverse RBS.
Our keeping our our customers, colleagues and RBS safe.
plan focuses on positive action and includes reciprocal mentoring, targeted development workshops and leadership Youth employment programmes and ensuring we have a Black, Asian and Minority In 2016 we welcomed over 500 people across our Graduate and Ethnic BAME focus on recruitment, talent identification and Apprenticeship schemes, 40% being female hires.
Health and wellbeing of our colleagues Our LGBT agenda continues to deliver a better experience for Wellbeing is a big part of how we create a great place to work.
our LGBT colleagues and customers.
We have processes in place to support updating gender and title on customers banking We offer a wide range of health benefits and services to help records and to support colleagues undergoing gender transition.
maintain physical and mental health, and support our colleagues And, we continue to support our 16,000 strong employee-led if they become unwell.
118 Report of the directors We have been recognised for our work on Equality, Diversity and BBA disclosure code Inclusion by our Platinum ranking from Opportunity Now RBSs 2016 financial statements have been prepared in gender, our Gold ranking for Race for Opportunity race : compliance with the principles set out in the Code for Financial retaining a position in the Times Top 50 Employers for Women: Reporting Disclosure published by the British Bankers' becoming a Top Ten Global Employer in Stonewalls Global Association in 2010.
The Code sets out five disclosure principles Equality Index LGBT, Silver Status from The Business Disability together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that RBS Forum and being rated a Top 10 Employer by Working Families.
and other major UK banks will provide high quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: review and enhance their Sustainability financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest to Our purpose is to serve customers well.
We will rebuild our market participants: assess the applicability and relevance of reputation and earn our customers trust by putting customers good practice recommendations to their disclosures first, making RBS a great place to work, supporting our acknowledging the importance of such guidance: seek to communities and being mindful of environmental impacts.
The enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures Sustainable Banking Committees role is to support the Board in across the UK banking sector: and clearly differentiate in their overseeing, supporting and challenging actions being taken by annual reports between information that is audited and management to run RBS as a sustainable business.
Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF For more information on our approach and progress please read The EDTF established by the Financial Stability Board, published the RBS Strategic Report.
Further information is available on its report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks in October rbs.
All EDTF recommendations are reflected in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and Pillar 3 Report.
Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate governance Disclosures relating to greenhouse gas emissions are included in The company is committed to high standards of corporate the Strategic Report on page 35. governance.
Details are given in the Corporate governance report on pages 57 to 111.
The Corporate governance report and Going concern compliance report pages 112 to 114 form part of this Report of RBSs business activities and financial position, the factors likely the directors.
to affect its future development and performance and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it Share capital is exposed and its capital are discussed in the Business review.
Details of the ordinary and preference share capital at 31 The risk factors which could materially affect RBSs future results December 2016 and movements during the year are shown in are set out on pages 432 to 463.
RBSs regulatory capital Note 25 on the consolidated accounts.
resources and significant developments in 2016 and anticipated future developments are detailed on pages 178 to 186.
The During 2016, the company allotted and issued a total of 142.2 liquidity and funding section on pages 187 to 198 describes million new ordinary shares of 1 each for the purposes of RBSs funding and liquidity profile, including changes in key ensuring 2016 coupon payments on discretionary hybrid capital metrics and the build up of liquidity reserves.
securities were partly neutralised from a Core Tier 1 capital perspective.
The shares were allotted to UBS AG at the Having reviewed RBSs forecasts, projections and other relevant subscription prices determined by reference to the average evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that RBS market prices during the sale periods set out below.
and the company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements of RBS Number of Subscription Share price on shares sold price Sale period Gross proceeds allotment and of the company have been prepared on a going concern 37.6m 226.250p 26 2 16-14 4 16 85 million 231.6p basis.
38.5m 220.687p 29 4 16-24 5 16 85 million 245.3p Viability statement 35.5m 196.924p 05 8 16-02 09 16 70 million 204.3p Under the revised UK Corporate Governance Code the directors 28 10 16- are required to confirm that they have carried out a robust 30.6m 195.930p 16 11 16 60 million 208.4p assessment of the RBSs principal risks and make a longer term viability statement.
This is set out in the Strategic Report on page In the three years to 31 December 2016, the percentage increase 55. in issued share capital due to non-pre-emptive issuance excluding employee share schemes for cash was 2.71%.
In addition, the company issued 56 million shares in connection with employee share schemes during 2016.
119 Report of the directors In October 2015, HMT converted its entire holding of 51 billion B The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative shares into 5.1 billion new ordinary shares of 1 each preference shares are set out in Note 25 on the consolidated accounts.
In March 2016, the company paid a final dividend of 1.2 billion in respect of the Dividend Access Share DAS held by HMT, The company is not aware of any agreements between effecting the immediate retirement of the DAS which was shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of redesignated as a single B share and subsequently cancelled.
securities and or voting rights.
There are no persons holding securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the Authority to repurchase shares company.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2016 shareholders authorised the company to make market purchases of up to 1,166,108,903 A number of the companys employee share plans include ordinary shares.
The directors have not exercised this authority to restrictions on transfers of shares while shares are subject to the date.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authorisation at plans or the terms under which the shares were awarded.
the Annual General Meeting in 2017.
Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible Additional information employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company, and Where not provided elsewhere in the Report of the directors, the shares are held in trust for participants by The Royal Bank of following additional information is required to be disclosed by Part Scotland plc and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company as Trustees.
6 of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustee no vote is registered.
The rights and obligations attached to the companys ordinary shares and preference shares are set out in the companys The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust, The Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust Companies House in the UK or can be found at and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee rbs.
Share Trust hold shares on behalf of RBSs employee share plans.
The voting rights are exercisable by the Trustees, On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every however, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, the holder of ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees would take present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of their vote.
On a poll, every holder of ordinary shares or cumulative shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have four votes for every share held.
The notices of Awards granted under the companys employee share plans may Annual General Meetings and General Meetings specify the be met through a combination of newly issued shares and shares deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or acquired in the market by the companys employee benefit trusts.
proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the company is party to The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.008% of take effect, alter or terminate.
All of the companys employee the total voting rights of the company, the remainder being share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
represented by the ordinary shares.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and become There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the exercisable on change of control, subject where appropriate to company other than certain restrictions which may from time to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, trading laws.
these agreements are not considered to be significant.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA, certain employees of Directors the company require the approval of the company to deal in the The names and brief biographical details of the current directors companys shares.
The rules governing the powers of directors, including in relation Sandy Crombie, Howard Davies, Alison Davis, Morten Friis, to issuing or buying back shares and their appointment are set Robert Gillespie, Penny Hughes, Ross McEwan, Brendan out in the companys Articles of Association.
It will be proposed at Nelson, Baroness Noakes and Ewen Stevenson all served the 2017 Annual General Meeting that the directors be granted throughout the year and to the date of signing of the financial authorities to allot shares under the Companies Act 2006.
companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
120 Report of the directors Mike Rogers was appointed to the Board on 26 January 2016 Listing Rule 9.8.
4 and Frank Dangeard was appointed on 16 May 2016.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules the information to be included in the Annual Report and All directors of the company are required to stand for election or Accounts under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors report with re-election annually by shareholders at the Annual General the exception of details of contracts of significance under LR Meeting and, in accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the 9.8.
10 and 11 given in Additional Information on pages 430 election or re-election of independent directors requires approval to 431. by all shareholders and also by independent shareholders.
Political donations Directors interests At the Annual General Meeting in 2016, shareholders gave The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 authority under Part 14 of the Companies Act, for a period of one December 2016 are shown on page 105.
None of the directors year, for the company and its subsidiaries to make political held an interest in the loan capital of the company or in the donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum shares or loan capital of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the aggregate sum of 100,000.
This authorisation was taken as a company, during the period from 1 January 2016 to 23 February precaution only, as the company has a longstanding policy of not 2017. making political donations or incurring political expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words.
During 2016, RBS made no Directors indemnities political donations, nor incurred any political expenditure in the In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the UK or EU and it is not proposed that RBSs longstanding policy of Companies Act, Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions not making contributions to any political party be changed.
have been issued by the company to its directors, members of Shareholders will be asked to renew this authorisation at the the RBS Executive Committee, individuals authorised by the Annual General Meeting in 2017.
PRA FCA and certain directors and or officers of RBS subsidiaries.
Directors disclosure to auditors Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, Qualifying Pension confirms that: Scheme Indemnity Provisions have been issued to all trustees of RBS pension schemes.
a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Post balance sheet events Other than the matter disclosed on page 390, there have been no b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have significant events between the year end and the date of approval taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant of these accounts which would require a change to or disclosure audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are in the accounts.
Controlling shareholder This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in In accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the company has accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies entered into an agreement with HM Treasury the Controlling Act.
Shareholder which is intended to ensure that the Controlling Shareholder complies with the independence provisions set out Auditors in the UK Listing Rules.
The company has complied with the EY LLP are the auditors.
EY were appointed to fill the casual independence provisions in the relationship agreement and as far vacancy arising from Deloitte LLP's resignation following the as the company is aware the independence and procurement signing of the 2015 accounts and the Groups Form 20-F and provisions in the relationship agreement have been complied with appointed by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
in the period by the controlling shareholder.
A resolution to reappoint EY as the companys auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Shareholdings The table below shows shareholders that have notified RBS that By order of the Board they hold more than 3% of the total voting rights of the company at 31 December 2016.
Solicitor For The Affairs of Her % of total Majestys Treasury as Nominee Number of shares % of share class voting rights Aileen Taylor for Her Majestys Treasury millions held held Company Secretary Ordinary shares 8,434 71.3 71.3 23 February 2017 As at 23 February 2017, there were no changes to the The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc shareholdings shown in the table above.
is registered in Scotland No.
SC45551 121 Statement of directors responsibilities This statement should be read in conjunction with the responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on pages 278 to 289.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors are required by Article 4 of the IAS Regulation European Commission Regulation No 1606 2002 to prepare Group accounts, and as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 have elected to prepare company accounts, for each financial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
They are responsible for preparing accounts that present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and the company.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report and Directors report incorporating the Business review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In addition, the directors are of the opinion that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Howard Davies Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 23 February 2017 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Howard Davies Ross McEwan Sandy Crombie Ewen Stevenson Frank Dangeard Alison Davis Morten Friis Robert Gillespie Penny Hughes Brendan Nelson Baroness Noakes Mike Rogers 122
