RPC Group Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT This report describes how RPC has applied the Main approving changes to the Groups LEADERSHIP Principles contained in the September 2014 edition capital structure, listing and legal and The Role of the Board of the Code and contains those statements required organisational structure: The Board is principally concerned with the overall by sections 7.1 and 7.2 of the DTR.
This Corporate approval of financial reports, dividend policy leadership, strategy and development of the Group governance report together with the Strategic and communication with shareholders and in order to promote success for the benefit of its report, Directors remuneration report and the Audit the market: shareholders as a whole within a framework of Committee report are incorporated by reference into effective controls which enable risk to be assessed the Directors report on page 77. monitoring the Groups management, operating and managed.
The Board sets the Groups strategic and financial performance: objectives, ensures that the necessary resources THE CODE review of risk assessments and the effectiveness are in place to meet its objectives, reviews The Board has considered and is of the view that of internal controls: management performance and ensures that high the Group has complied with the provisions of the ethical standards of behaviour are followed.
responsibility for Board membership and Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2016. appointments, directors remuneration and In its decision-making processes, the Board contracts and remuneration policy: and takes into account the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term, the interests of the Group corporate governance and approval Groups employees, relationships with suppliers and ofGroup policies.
customers, the impact of the Groups operations Matters not specifically reserved for the Board on the community and the environment and and the day-to-day operations of the Group are maintaining RPCs reputation for high standards delegated to management.
The Board meets at least six times each year with A formal schedule of matters reserved for the at least one meeting being combined with a visit to Board includes: an operating unit providing an opportunity to meet approval of the Groups objectives, strategic the local management team.
In addition a meeting plans and annual budgets: is held specifically to discuss Group strategy.
The number of Board and Committee meetings held authorisation of material acquisitions, disposals, during the year and attendance by their members capital investments, credit facilities, contracts is given in the table on page 49.
Directors who are and transactions: unable to attend a meeting receive the agenda and meeting papers and provide the Chairman with their comments before the meeting.
The Chief Executives of the Groups Divisions make regular presentations to the Board on divisional strategy and other key aspects of their business.
The frequency of meetings forms part of the Board performance evaluation process on an annual basis.
RPC Group Plc is a company incorporated in the UK and listed JAMIE on the London Stock Exchange.
The PIKE principal corporate governance rules that Chairman are applicable are contained in the Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
uk, the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules Listing Rules, the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR and the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE SENIOR NON-EXECUTIVE THE COMPANY INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS SECRETARY The Chairman is responsible The Chief Executive is DIRECTOR for the leadership and effective responsible for the day to day The role of the non-executive The Company Secretary is running of the Board and its running of the Groups business, directors, in addition to responsible for ensuring that The Senior Independent decision-making processes, for except for matters specifically the general duties and Board procedures are followed, Director provides support setting the highest standards of reserved for the Board.
responsibilities of directors, applicable rules and regulations for the Chairman and is integrity and probity, for setting is to constructively challenge are complied with and for available to meet with major its agenda and the style and and ensure the integrity of advising the Board through the shareholders on request and to tone of Board discussions.
Chairman on all governance enable shareholders to voice matters, good information flows any concerns that contact within the Board and facilitating through the normal investor induction as required.
communication channels has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS Overall leadership, strategy and development of the Group Comprised of: 2 executive directors, 4 non-executive directors, 1 non-executive Chairman NOMINATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Reviews the size, composition Review and challenge Sets and reviews and balance of the Board financial reporting and remuneration policy for the accounting policies.
Review executive directors, Chairman Comprised of: 5 non-executive directors internal control and the and certain members of external auditor.
senior management See p50 Comprised of: Comprised of: 3 non-executive directors 3 non-executive directors See p54 See p59 MANAGEMENT Delegated responsibility of the day to day management of the Group.
RPC Group Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Division of Responsibilities The non-executive Chairman of the Board is Jamie Pike and the Chief Executive is Pim Vervaat.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are clearly defined and set out in a written statement on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective running of the Board and its decision-making processes, for setting the highest standards of integrity and probity, for setting its agenda and the style and tone of Board discussions.
The role includes: leading the Board in determining strategy and the achievement of the Groups objectives while ensuring that the Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks associated with the implementation of its strategy: creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and safeguarding their interests: ensuring that directors keep their skill, knowledge and familiarity with the Group up-to-date: regularly considering succession planning and the composition of the Board: and ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day running of the Groups business, except for matters specifically reserved for the Board.
The Board considered that on appointment, Jamie Pike met the independence criteria set out in provision B.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans external commitments do not interfere with the performance of his duties to RPC.
The Chairman held informal meetings with the non-executive directors during the year to discuss Board related matters without the executive directors present.
Martin Towers was the Senior Independent Director throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with major shareholders on request and to enable shareholders to voice any concerns that contact through the normal investor communication channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director provides support for the Chairman on Board matters.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors have met informally at least once during the year without the Chairman present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Non-executive Directors The Company had four non-executive directors at the date of this report.
The role of the non-executive directors, in addition to the general duties and responsibilities of directors, is to: constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy: scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: ensure the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: determine appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, executive directors and in succession planning: uphold high standards of integrity and probity and support the Chairman and the other directors in instilling the appropriate culture, values and behaviour in the boardroom and beyond: insist on receiving high-quality information sufficiently in advance of Board meetings: and take into account the views of shareholders and other stakeholders where appropriate.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Board Committees There are three principal Board Committees all of which operate under written terms of reference which are available from the Company Secretary or the Companys website www.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are reviewed and, if appropriate, updated each year by the relevant Committee and the Board.
Only members of a Committee are entitled to attend meetings but each Committee may invite other directors, managers or advisers to attend.
The Company Secretary is secretary to all three Committees.
The performance and membership of each Committee is reviewed each year by the relevant committee and the Board.
Sufficient resources are provided to enable the Committees to undertake their duties and they have authority to appoint independent professional advisers or consultants when required.
The Chair of the relevant Committee reports on the proceedings and any recommendations made at the subsequent Board meeting.
Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Year ended Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number 31 March 2016 meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended Non-executive directors Jamie Pike 7 7 3 3 n a n a n a n a Pim Vervaat 7 7 n a n a n a n a n a n a Simon Kesterton 7 7 n a n a n a n a n a n a Lynn Drummond 7 7 3 3 4 4 3 3 1 Ilona Haaijer 7 1 n a n a n a n a n a n a 2 Heike van fide Kerkhof 7 3 3 2 4 3 3 2 1 Stephan Rojahn 7 3 3 1 4 1 3 1 Martin Towers 7 7 3 3 4 4 3 3 Godwin Wong 7 7 3 3 n a n a n a n a 1 Ilona Haaijer and Stephan Rojahn left the Board on 13 May and 15 July 2015 respectively.
2 Heike van fide Kerkhof joined the Board on 24 November 2015.
EFFECTIVENESS Board Composition and Independence The Board consists of seven directors: a non-executive Chairman, three independent non-executive directors, one non-independent non-executive director and two executive directors.
The names and biographical details of the directors and their roles and Committee membership within RPC are shown on pages 44 and 45.
The significant commitments outside the Group of the Chairman and non-executive directors are given in their biographies.
Changes to such commitments are reported to the Board as they arise.
The Nomination Committee reviews the size, composition and balance of the Board each year and recommends any changes for the directors to consider.
Despite its relatively small size, the Board comprises directors with a wide range of managerial, professional and academic experience from accounting, finance and consultancy to manufacturing, engineering, pharmaceuticals and healthcare.
Between them the directors have experience of doing business in the UK, Europe and in the USA, South America, India and the Far East.
Of the directors in office at the date of this report, one is Dutch, one is German and a third is a Chinese US national and there are both male and female members of the Board.
The Board has endorsed the policy on diversity, including gender, recommended by the Nomination Committee.
The independent non-executive directors bring valuable knowledge, a broad range of experience and strong, independent character and judgement to the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considered that all non-executive directors, excluding Godwin Wong, were independent, in accordance with the Code.
It is the view of the Board that Godwin Wong, does not meet the material business relationship criteria for independence under Code provision B.
1.1. as he was a director and business adviser to Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd which was acquired by RPC on 2 June 2014.
There are no other relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
RPC Group Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued NOMINATION COMMITTEE The members of the Nomination Committee and its Chairman that served during the year and up to the date of this report are as follows: From To Jamie Pike Chairman 23.07.08 To date Lynn Drummond 25.03.15 To date Ilona Haaijer 30.05.12 13.05.15 Heike van fide Kerkhof 24.11.15 To date Stephan Rojahn 25.05.06 15.07.15 Martin Towers 01.04.09 To date Godwin Wong 25.03.15 To date The Committee meets at least twice each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and the attendance ofmembers of the Committee are shown in the table on page 49.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attended meetings by invitation.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: review and make recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board: give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior managers: evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board and senior management vacancies as and when they arise: annually review the time required from non-executive directors and evaluate the membership and performance of the Board and its committees: and recommend the re-appointment of non-executive directors and re-election of directors.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Each year the Committee reviews the Boards structure, size, composition and balance and the membership of Board Committees.
It also reviews the performance of the Board, its Committees and the individual directors, the independence of non-executive directors and the time commitment required from them and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee considers plans for the succession of directors and senior managers including the identification of internal managers who may be suitable for more senior positions in due course with the appropriate development of skills and experience.
The Committee is responsible for recommendations for appointments, reappointments and re-election of directors.
Recommendations for reappointment and reelection are made following review of the directors performance and consideration of the need to progressively refresh the Board.
The Nomination Committee has considered the recommendations made by Lord Davies in his Report on Women on Boards, his subsequent updates and the amendments made to the UK Corporate Governance Code by the Financial Reporting Council on diversity on boards including gender.
The policy recommended by the Committee and endorsed by the Board is that the search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted and appointments made on the basis of merit and the most appropriate experience against objective criteria in the best interests of shareholders.
In selecting candidates due regard will be given to the benefits of different nationalities, experience in a variety of business sectors and European and global markets and diversity on the Board including gender.
During the year, the Nomination Committee, led the process to appoint an additional non-executive director to fill the vacancy left by Ilona Haaijer.
Part of this process involved the appointment of Korn Ferry, a firm of external search consultants, and the preparation of a description of the role and capabilities required for the preferred candidate.
Following the completion of this search Heike van fide Kerkhof was appointed to the Board and its Committees with effect from 24 November 2015.
Stephan Rojahn retired from the Board on 15 July 2015 having completed nine years as a non-executive director.
Re-election of Directors Although the Companys Articles of Association the Articles contain provisions governing the election and re-election of directors, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Consequently, all the directors in office at the date of this report, will submit themselves for re-election on an individual basis at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and annually thereafter.
Non-executive directors are appointed for terms of three years or less, subject to annual re-election, but the Board may terminate their appointment without notice or compensation at any time.
The Board is responsible for the appointment or, subject to effective performance and commitment, re-appointment of non-executive directors and setting their remuneration, which consists solely of directors fees.
A rigorous review of performance, taking into account the need for progressively refreshing the Board, is conducted when a non-executive director is proposed for re-appointment on completion of two terms of three years.
Non-executive directors may not normally serve longer than nine years.
DIVERSITY OF THE BOARD Female 29% Male 71% RPC Group Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Following the formal evaluation of each of the directors in office and seeking re-election at the date of this report, the Board confirms that they continue to be effective and demonstrate independence of character and judgement and commitment to the role and therefore recommends their re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Biographical details of all of the directors are given on pages 44 and 45.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving executive directors service contracts.
Details of these contracts are given in the Directors remuneration report.
Copies of executive directors service contracts and terms and conditions of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Information and Professional Development The Board is provided with relevant information on the activities of the Group in a timely manner and in a form and of a quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
There is a procedure established for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
In addition, all Board members have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys role also includes ensuring good information flows within the Board and Committees and between executive and non-executive directors and facilitating induction as required.
Newly appointed directors receive a formal induction tailored to the needs of the Group following good practice guidance.
On appointment directors receive information about the Group including the role of the Board and matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Boards committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures, the latest financial information about the Group, and training in the duties and responsibilities of directors of listed companies.
For non-executive directors, this is supplemented by meetings with executive directors and senior executives and visits to key locations with the opportunity to meet local management to assist in the process of learning about the business.
Throughout their period of office directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, corporate responsibility and sustainability matters and other changes affecting the Group, its markets, manufacturing technology, processes and the industry.
All directors have access to training in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors keep their skills and knowledge and their familiarity with the Group up to date in order to fulfil their roles on the Board and committees.
The Company Secretary briefs the Board on corporate governance matters and relevant changes to corporate laws and regulations and facilitates professional development by regularly circulating details of and arranging attendance at seminars.
Executive directors also attend seminars on topics of particular relevance to their roles.
Performance Evaluation The Board conducts an annual review of its performance and that of its Committees and the individual directors.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the review was undertaken by an external facilitator, Independent Audit Limited, a firm of specialist Board governance consultants.
The next externally facilitated evaluation will be conducted during the year ended 31 March 2019.
The review was approached by following the process as set out below: i.
Completion of questionnaires by members of the Board and regular Board attendees ii.
Follow up interviews with members of the Board and regular Board attendees.
Observation of a Board and Committee meeting.
Presentation of the report to the full Board meeting.
The evaluation was undertaken during November and December 2015.
The overall assessment was that the Board and its Committees were performing well, although there were some suggested improvements that were positively met by the Board.
These included the need to formally review the Vision 2020 Strategy in light of the appointment of three non-executive directors over the past three years and to consider succession planning for the non-executive directors.
The Board agreed to review the Vision 2020 Strategy at its early May Board meeting and consider the succession planning issue during 2016.
Drawing on the Board and Committee reviews and using individual director questionnaires the Chairman undertook a review of the performance of each of the directors.
The Senior Independent Director undertook a review of the performance of the Chairman after taking into account the views of all the directors.
The results of these individual reviews and any improvements or personal objectives were discussed with the relevant directors on a one to one basis.
Independent Audit Limited do not have any other connection with the Company.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee and its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, its activities during the year under review and details of key considerations in relation to the financial statements are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 58.
The number of meetings of the Committee and attendance are given in the table on page 49.
Directors Conflicts of Interest Under the CA 2006, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests a situational conflict.
This is in addition to a duty to disclose any interest in an existing or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company a transactional conflict.
In accordance with the CA 2006, the Articles contain a provision giving directors who have no interest in the matter, authority to approve such situational conflicts where appropriate.
A formal system and guidance for reporting any situational conflicts of interest to the Chairman and Company Secretary has been established in addition to the existing duty to notify the Board of any transactional conflicts.
Situational conflicts are considered by those directors who have no interest in the matter and they may impose conditions on any authorisation given.
Situational conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisation given are recorded in the Board minutes and a register of directors conflicts of interest.
In addition to the notification and authorisation system, the register of directors conflicts of interest is reviewed annually.
REMUNERATION Remuneration Committee and Policy The members of the Remuneration Committee and its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, its activities during the year under review and details of remuneration policy and directors remuneration packages are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 59 to 76.
The number of meetings of the Committee and attendance are given on page 49.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Dialogue with Shareholders RPC is committed to maintaining an effective dialogue with institutional and private investors.
Directors, normally the Chairman or Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, hold regular meetings with institutional investors at which the Groups past performance and strategy may be discussed.
The Board is provided with brokers reports, surveys on shareholders views and regular feedback from shareholder meetings.
During the year the Chairman has discussed RPCs governance and strategy with major shareholders and reported any issues or concerns raised at these meetings to the Board.
Non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and expect to attend meetings at their request.
Contact with institutional investors, financial analysts, brokers and the press is controlled and procedures are in place to ensure the proper disclosure of inside information in compliance with the DTR, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Code of Market Conduct.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
An individual resolution on each separate issue is proposed at the AGM including the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report.
Shareholders have the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about RPCs activities and performance.
It is the Boards policy that all directors attend the AGM if at all possible and therefore in normal circumstances the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution and votes withheld are counted before the AGM and are made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on a show of hands.
A full breakdown of the voting results detailing the total number of votes for, against and votes withheld in respect of each resolution proposed is published after each AGM and general meeting.
