RPC Group Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER, I am pleased to present the Audit Committees Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The report describes the work of the Committee, itsresponsibilities and key tasks as well as its major areas of activity and key considerations for the financial year.
MEMBERS Martin Towers Lynn Drummond Stephan Rojahn until 15 July 2015 Ilona Haaijer until 13 May 2015 Heike van fide Kerkhof appointed on 24 November 2015 All members of the Committee are considered to be independent pursuant to the Code.
This year has seen some changes following the departures of both Ilona Haaijer and Stephan Rojahn on 13 May 2015 and 15 July 2015 respectively.
Heike van fide Kerkhof joined the Committee on 24 November 2015.
Martin Towers and Lynn Drummond served throughout the year.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman, a chartered accountant, has recent and relevant financial experience and has extensive experience in senior finance roles.
MEETINGS The Committee meets at least three times each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and the attendance of members of the Committee are shown in the table on page 49.
The external auditor attends meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee Chairman, other than when their appointment or performance is being reviewed.
Additionally, the Group Finance Director, other members of the Board, the Group Controller and the Group Internal Audit Manager attend meetings by invitation as appropriate.
The Committee meets with the auditor without any other directors or management present at least twice each year.
The Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts as Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference in accordance with best practice in 2013 and these can be found on the Companys website www.
The terms of reference will be subject to their next review at the meeting scheduled to take place in January 2017.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: monitor the financial reporting process including the integrity and clarity of the financial statements of the Company and review any significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain: review and challenge where necessary the consistency of and changes to accounting policies, the methods used to account for significant and unusual transactions and whether the Company has followed appropriate accounting standards and made appropriate estimates and judgements: approve the external auditors terms of engagement, audit plan and scope of the audit and review with them the results of their audit and any control issues raised: review the effectiveness of the external auditor and their independence and objectivity: consider and make recommendations to the Board on the external auditors remuneration and their appointment, reappointment or removal: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and review the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and its systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and receive reports on non-compliance: review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial and other matters: and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, approve the appointment and removal of internal auditors, review and approve their remit, review and assess internal audit plans, review internal audit reports and monitor managements responses to recommendations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 The Committee fulfilled its responsibilities outlined above during the year.
In addition to the going concern report, the Committee also helped the Board prepare the viability statement and consider the appropriateness of the three-year period over which the viability statement will apply.
It reviewed the Annual Report to ensure it was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Further details of the Committees activities during the year are shown below.
ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
Three of the meetings were routinely scheduled, the fourth meeting, which also took place in June 2015, wasconvened specifically to consider a number of outstanding issues in respect of the audit for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The meetings in the year, together with the May 2016 meeting, dealt with the following matters: June November January May 2015 2015 2016 2016 Financial reporting and significant judgements Full year results and announcement Half year results and announcement Going concern report Viability statement External audit Review and consideration of Audit Highlights Memorandum Board representation letter Evaluation of external audit function Reappointment recommendation to Board Fees for non-audit activities External audit plan Separate meeting with External Auditor Internal audit Internal controls & risk management report Internal controls & risk management update Internal audit update Evaluation of Internal audit function 2016 Internal audit plan Other Annual review of terms of reference Annual evaluation of committee UK Corporate Governance and other compliance RPC Group Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS The Committee is responsible for reviewing whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements in the preparation of the financial statements.
In respect to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016, the significant issues reviewed, and how these issues were addressed, are summarised below: Non-underlying Items Note 4 on page 104 of the financial statements explains the nature of the 85.0m of non-recurring and Non-underlying items recognised in the year, relating to the transactional and business integration costs of recent acquisitions, and in particular the Promens Integration programme, and other additional costs and incomes arising from one-off events.
The Committee considered the accounting treatment and disclosure of these items in the financial statements through a detailed review of managements plans in respect to the programme, and also sought the views of the external auditor as to the appropriateness and consistency of the accounting treatment and disclosures.
In addition the Audit Committee also considered the write-back of deferred consideration relating to the Ace acquisition which recent business performance would indicate will not be fully paid.
On the basis of this review the Committee concluded that the accounting treatment and disclosure of these items were appropriate.
Acquisition Accounting During the year the Group acquired five businesses, Innocan, Depicton, Strata Products, JP Plast and GCS Group for a combined consideration in excess of 500m.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires assets and liabilities acquired to be recorded at fair value and to separately identify intangible assets from goodwill, initially measuring each group of intangible assets at fair value.
These intangible assets included customer relationships, technology and brands.
There is judgement involved in estimating fair values, particularly in relation to identifiable intangible assets, which requires the directors to estimate the useful economic life of each asset and the future cash flows expected to arise from each asset and to apply a suitable discount rate.
In addition the Group assesses the fair value of other assets and liabilities, including out of market and onerous contracts, which may also require judgements as to the completeness and accuracy of these.
Where deferred consideration is recognised and is contingent on post-acquisition business performance, then a judgement on likely future performance and attainment of related targets is also required.
The Group adopted a methodology which has been consistently applied to all acquisitions in recent years and discussed their approach and assumptions with the Committee.
The auditor provided the Committee with their review of the fair value exercises for the acquisitions made in the year, including hindsight adjustments and consideration of contingent deferred consideration relating to prior acquisitions.
Following discussion the Committee was satisfied that the assumptions used were appropriate and that the resultant fair values and accounting adjustments were reasonable.
Details of how acquisitions have been accounted for are set out in note 26 of the financial statements.
In addition the Committee is responsible for ensuring that the results communications are fair, balanced and understandable, and it reviews the results announcements and Annual Report to ensure that this is the case.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR Following the completion of the tender of the external audit in the previous financial year  LLP PwC were appointed as external auditor at the AGM that took place on 15 July 2015.
PwC replaced the previous external auditor KPMG LLP.
Resolutions to appoint the auditor of the Company and to authorise the Board to determine the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in July 2016.
Non-Audit Services The Committee has conducted a detailed review of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor and reviewed monitoring and approval procedures during the year.
It is satisfied that the level of fees for non-audit services has not impaired auditor objectivity and independence based on the principles adopted in the Group policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Under the policy, the auditor may not be engaged to audit their own work, make management decisions for the Group, have a mutual financial interest with the Group or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Prior approval of the Committee is required for non-audit services where the fees are likely to exceed specified limits both for individual assignments and in the aggregate.
Details of the amounts payable to the external auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
In addition to its review of non-audit fees, the Committee has conducted its annual assessment of the external auditor, including matters that might have a bearing on their independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of their audit.
The assessment takes into account the systems and procedures adopted by PwC and the results of an internal questionnaire.
The Committee is satisfied that the external audit process is effective and that auditor objectivity and independence is properly safeguarded.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 INTERNAL AUDIT The Group Internal Audit Manager is invited to attend Audit Committee meetings where external audit and internal control matters are considered and to report on the results of internal audits and progress on the implementation of recommendations directly to the Committee.
During the year, the Committee approved the annual internal audit plans and the scope of audits.
It also reviewed the results of audits and the internal audit resources in respect of the Group.
Following further corporate activity through additional acquisitions and the resulting increase in the number of locations, the Group has increased the size of its internal audit function during the year.
In addition Deloitte LLP carried out a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function and have provided assistance with internal audits where additional resources were required.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Group has well established risk management and internal control systems.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and to manage rather than eliminate the risk offailure to achieve business objectives.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group which has been regularly reviewed by the Committee and the Board, and is in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting.
The key procedures in the Groups process for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls are summarised below: There is a clearly defined Group management responsibility and reporting structure.
The Groups objectives are reviewed as part of the strategic planning process and communicated throughout the Group.
Objectives are set for the divisions and in turn the individual operating businesses as part of the strategy review process.
A three-year strategy review is prepared for the Boards consideration each year.
This is appraised in the light of the strategic and other relevant risks and issues faced by the Group, the resources available and its objectives.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of the Groups annual strategic planning cycle.
The Group has a detailed risk management process, which identifies the key risks faced by the individual reporting entities and the Group as a whole and the actions and controls required to manage these risks.
The process is reviewed each year to ensure it remains relevant to the business over time.
The Board and Committee review this information as part of the internal control review.
The directors are required to approve yearly financial budgets, including capital expenditure, for each of the Groups operating units.
Performance against these targets is monitored monthly and reported on at Board meetings.
Reasons for divergences are discussed at Board meetings.
Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks in their area of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
Through the use of risk registers, these risks are assessed on a continual basis.
An annual review is performed on the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including a detailed risk assessment.
The internal audit function undertakes work to review the system of internal control at each operation visited and reports findings to management.
Matters relating to internal control brought to the attention of the management by the internal and external auditor are reviewed and any corrective actions to the internal control procedures are made in a timely manner.
The Group operates an effective group reporting and consolidation system.
Monthly reports, management accounts and key performance indicators are submitted by operating units and reviewed every month by senior management.
Significant risks and internal control issues are considered, actions agreed and progress monitored regularly with reporting entities and, where appropriate, at executive and Board meetings.
Operating units produce plans to improve controls relating to key risks and any significant weaknesses identified by Group executives in addition to other initiatives and ongoing actions in progress at the local or divisional level.
An Internal Controls Committee, comprising senior finance managers in the Group, ensures that operating units respond to and implement internal control recommendations arising from internal and external audits.
An interim report is reviewed by the Committee and the Board to monitor the operating units progress against their plans to improve controls to ensure that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
The report also includes updates on significant risks and other internal control issues.
RPC Group Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued The internal audit function has performed reviews at a number of the Groups sites during the year.
In addition, the Group has identified a number of risks faced by the business, requiring particular attention to control and monitoring, and these are held in a Group risk register.
Details of the specific risks that are seen as particularly important at the current time are given in the Principal Risks on pages 24 and 25.
STATEMENTS OF COMPLIANCE The directors confirm that they have carried out their annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control as it has operated throughout the year ended 31 March 2016 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The directors also confirm that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
The directors also confirm that they have carried out during the year a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Company confirms that it complied with provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
COMMITTEE PRIORITIES FOR 2016 17 The priorities for the Committee for 2016 17 are set out below: continue to review the effectiveness of the Companys overall risk management framework, including the generic procedures for risk identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting: prepare for and implement any relevant regulatory changes to Committee governance: and continue to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and internal controls.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS The effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed on an annual basis by both the Board and the Committee itself and the Committee is considered to continue to operate effectively and efficiently.
M G Towers MARTIN Chairman of the Audit Committee TOWERS Chairman of 2 June 2016 theAudit Committee
