Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors Martin has considerable Board Board of experience, knowledge and understanding of the financial services sector.
Previous roles include Directors Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Lloyds Banking Group plc, 34 years at Deloitte LLP, 26 years of which as Partner, Martin Scicluna Chairman of Deloitte LLP from 1995 Committee member key to 2007, Director, Deloitte Touche Role Chairman Tohmatsu from 1999 to 2007 and A Group Audit Committee B Board Risk Committee Appointment date membership of the Financial Services I Group Investment Committee January 2013 Trade and Investment Board from N Gr oup Nomination and Governance Committee Nationality 2013 to 2015.
R Group Remuneration Committee British Chair of Committee External appointments: Chairman of Great N I Member of Committee Portland Estates plc and Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Worldpay Group plc.
Stephen was previously Chief Executive Before RSA, Scott was Interim Officer of The Royal Bank of Scotland Chief Executive Officer at Towergate Group plc, 2008-13, where he led the Insurance having previously held the largest ever corporate restructuring post of Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to that also held the post of Chief Financial he held positions as Chief Executive, Officer at Brit Insurance, after four British Land plc from 2004 to 2008, years at Zurich Financial Services, Chief Operating Officer, Abbey National plc as Chief Financial Officer UK, and Stephen Scott Hester and a number of senior roles at Credit Egan latterly as Group Financial Controller.
Suisse First Boston in London and He has also held various senior finance Role Role Group Chief Executive Group Chief New York.
Stephen has over 30 years roles at Norwich Union Insurance Financial Officer Appointment date experience in financial services and now Aviva.
Scott is a qualified February 2014 Appointment date FTSE 100 companies with expertise accountant ACMA and has an October 2015 Nationality in transforming the performance MBA from Cranfield University.
British External appointments: None I I External appointments: Senior Independent Director of Centrica plc.
Alastair retired from KPMG in March Kath has over 25 years experience 2011.
In the last 20 years of his 36 year in global financial services.
She was career with the firm, in the UK and previously Chief Operating Officer, overseas, he led their financial services Wholesale Banking for Standard team in Scotland with a primary Chartered Bank and spent 22 years focus on insurance and investment at UBS.
Kath has gained a deep management.
Alastair has extensive knowledge of control, governance experience in advising on accounting and risk management, working Alastair Kath Barbour and financial reporting, corporate Cates in emerging markets and across governance and management different sectors and cultures.
Role Role Independent Independent issues in the financial sector and is a External appointments: Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Director of Brewin Dolphin Holdings plc, Director Director Non-Executive Director of Threadneedle Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointment date Appointment date Investment Services Limited and Threadneedle October 2011 September 2013 Asset Management Holdings Srl.
External appointments: Non-Executive Nationality Nationality Director of Phoenix Group Holdings, British British Standard Life Private Equity Trust PLC, Liontrust Asset Management plc, CATCo A B I N B A N Reinsurance Opportunities Fund Limited and The Bank of N. T. Butterfield & Son Limited a company listed in Bermuda and New York.
44 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Enrico has over 35 years global Isabel has significant experience in executive and non-executive experience general insurance, both as an executive across financial services including and non-executive director, along with banking and insurance and a number a wealth of relevant board experience of blue chip brands.
He spent over having served as committee member 15 years at Allianz in a variety of and committee Chairman of a number international roles, including Head of listed companies including Standard of Global P&C and Head of most of Life plc and QBE Insurance Group Ltd, Enrico Isabel Cucchiani Europe, Latin America and Africa.
Hudson as well as The Pension Regulator.
Her previous roles include Executive Role Role External appointments: Partner of Think Global Independent Independent Director of Prudentials UK business lnvestments LLP and Non-Executive Director at Non-Executive Non-Executive Piraeus Bank SA.
and Chairman of Prudential International Director Director Assurance between 2002 and 2006, Appointment date Appointment date Chief Executive of specialised pension December 2014 August 2016 buyout firm Synesis Life, Chief Financial Nationality Nationality Italian British Officer of Eureko and International R B R Development Director for GE Insurance Holdings Limited.
External appointments: Chairman of National House Building Council, Non-Executive Director of BT Group plc and Non-Executive Director of Phoenix Group Holdings.
Until 31 December 2015, Chief Human Joseph has a comprehensive Resources and Corporate Officer of understanding of the insurance market Royal Dutch Shell plc, and a member globally, extensive financial services of the Shell Executive Committee.
expertise and a good knowledge Formerly a Director of Shell International of international and emerging Limited, Shell Aircraft Limited and markets.
Previous roles include the Shell Foundation.
Chief Financial Officer of Aegon until 2009 and Chairman of the Hugh Joseph Advisory roles previously held at The Mitchell Streppel Monitoring Committee of the Centre for Advanced Human Resources Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
Role at Cornell University Advisory Board, Role Independent Independent IMD Business School Advisory Board in External appointments: Vice-Chairman of Non-Executive Non-Executive Lausanne, an Honorary Vice-President Van Lanschot, a Dutch private banking and Director Director asset management firm, Director of Arq for the CIPD UK and Advisory Board Appointment date Appointment date Foundation, Chairman of Duisenberg School September 2012 October 2011 Member of the National College for of Finance, Chairman of the Advisory Board Nationality Nationality of the Royal Dutch Society of Actuaries School Leadership England and Wales.
British Dutch and Chairman of Leaseplan Corporation.
External appointments: Currently a Fellow of R B N I A R the National Academy of Human Resources in the USA and a Board Member of Edinburgh Business School.
Most recently Chief Executive Officer Johannas previous roles include Senior of Baloise Group, a position he held for Independent Director of Rexam plc, seven years to 2015.
He joined Baloise Non-Executive Director of Morrisons plc, Group in 1999 as the Head of IT at Chairman of Tate Enterprises and over Basler Switzerland and, within Baloise 20 years with McKinsey & Company, Group, was responsible for major positions including Co-leader of the cross-functional insurance and finance Global Marketing and Sales Practice projects.
From 2003-08, he was a and Leader of their UK Consumer Martin Johanna Strobel member of the Corporate Executive Waterous CBE Practice and the European Retail Committee with responsibility for Practice.
She is also a former Director Role Role Independent Senior Independent the Corporate Division Switzerland.
of Shoppers Drug Mart Corporation Non-Executive Non-Executive From 1993 to 1999, Martin performed a company listed on the Toronto Director Director various roles at Boston Consulting Stock Exchange.
Appointment date Appointment date Group, Dsseldorf, advising business May 2016 May 2008 External appointments: Trustee of the Nationality in the banking and insurance sectors.
Nationality Foundation & Friends of RBG Kew Foundation Swiss Canadian and Director of RBG Kew Enterprises.
I A R A N R RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45
