Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Executive Committee Executive Committee The Board focuses on management succession planning and The Executive Committee comprises Stephen Hester was pleased to promote internal candidates to the Executive and Scott Egan, Executive Directors of the Group Board, Committee: Charlotte Heiss as Group Chief Legal Officer and and the senior management set out below.
Company Secretary, Nathan Williams as Group Underwriting Director and Martin Thompson as President and CEO of RSA During the year, certain changes to the Executive Committee Canada.
In January 2017, Cathy Lewis joined the executive have occurred with the departure of Derek Walsh, General team as Group HR Director.
Counsel and Group Company Secretary in February 2016, Rowan Saunders, President and CEO of RSA Canada in July Biographical details for the individuals fulfilling these roles 2016 and Paul Whittaker, Chief Operating Officer in September can be found at www.
In addition, David Coughlan made an internal move to the UK & International Executive Team to become Personal Lines Director.
Patrick Ralph Bergander Daals CEO RSA Scandinavia Group Chief Auditor Cathy Charlotte Lewis Heiss Group HR Director Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary Stephen William Lewis McDonnell Chief Executive, Group Chief UK & International Risk Officer Darren Martin Price Thompson Group Chief President and Information Officer CEO RSA Canada Nathan Williams Group Underwriting Director 46 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Leadership Directors The names of the directors, together with their biographical and committee membership details are set out on pages 44 and 45.
Martin Strobel and Isabel Hudson were appointed as Independent Non-Executive Directors on 1 May 2016 and 1August 2016 respectively.
Johanna Waterous will retire as a director with effect from the AGM on 5 May 2017.
With effect from 5 May 2017, Isabel Hudson will succeed Johanna Waterous as Senior Independent Director.
The Companys Articles of Association authorise the Board to manage the business of the Company and give the directors power to appoint and replace directors as required until the next AGM.
Directors are nominated by the Group Nomination and Governance Committee and are subsequently approved by the Board for election or re-election annually by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three-year term with an expectation that Women in Leadership event in Peterborough they will continue for at least a further three years.
Details of the directors service contracts and terms of Diversity appointment, together with their interests in the Companys The Group is committed to diversity and the promotion of shares, are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report equal opportunities.
We recognise the importance of diversity on pages 76 to 101 and are incorporated into this Report to the effectiveness of the Board and remain committed by reference.
to maintaining the Davies Report recommendation of a In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, minimum of 25 percent representation of females on the the Board believes that it has the appropriate balance of skills, Board.
The Board composition is currently 73 percent male experience, independence and knowledge to enable it and and 27 percent female.
The Group continues to invest in its committees to discharge their duties and responsibilities strengthening its pipeline of female employees for senior effectively.
The Board is satisfied that it is of a size appropriate leadership positions to ensure progress towards this target to the needs of the business and that no individual or small and has developed a framework of initiatives designed to group of directors can dominate the Boards decision-making.
help retain, develop and promote our female employees and improve diversity and inclusion more broadly.
These include One of the key responsibilities of the Group Nomination mentoring schemes including the 30% club cross-company and Governance Committee is to keep under review Board scheme, recruitment initiatives, development courses and membership, succession planning and diversity to ensure a variety of other initiatives designed both to support our the balance remains appropriate.
A review was undertaken people and help ensure objectivity within our processes.
during the course of the year.
Further details of the work of this committee can be found on pages 66 to 67.
During 2016, female members of the Board and senior management held Women in Leadership meetings giving employees the opportunity to meet senior female leaders of the business to discuss their careers.
When appointing new directors, regard is given to the size of the Board, the balance of executive and non-executive directors and the benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Board is aware of the proposals of the Parker Report on ethnic diversity and is awaiting publication of the final report following the consultation.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance continued Role Statements The role of the Group Chief Legal Officer and Company No one individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
Secretary Company Secretary is to support the Chairman and The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are the Board.
The role of the Company Secretary includes bringing separate and clearly differentiated through role statements, all governance matters to the attention of the Board and which are approved by the Board annually, along with role delivering a programme of Board and committee meetings, statements for the Senior Independent Director and nontrainings, induction programmes and senior management executive directors.
presentations to ensure that each director has the information required to discharge his or her statutory duties.
The Company The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness Secretary ensures that papers are produced to a high standard of the Board including the conduct at Board meetings.
and in a timely manner which are circulated to directors a week He promotes a culture of openness and debate ensuring in advance of any meeting.
The directors have access to the effective decision-making and the provision of timely, services and advice of the Company Secretary, and may take accurate and clear information.
The Chairman ensures independent professional advice at the expense of the that relevant objectives are established for the Group Chief Company in the furtherance of their duties.
Executive and his executive team, reviewing the overall management performance of the Company and senior Further information on the individuals fulfilling these roles management with the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman can be found in their biographies on pages 44 to 46 and on takes on the role of ambassador for the Company, participating www.
in the engagement of and effective communication with the Companys stakeholders.
Board Committee Structure and Membership The Board delegates certain duties to its committees so that The Group Chief Executive is responsible for identifying and matters receive detailed consideration.
Terms of reference developing business opportunities, recommending actions for each committee detail the authority delegated from the to the Board with particular attention on strategic plans, Board, and these have been reviewed by each committee and risk appetite and risk exposure for the business, monitoring approved by the Board during 2016.
Terms of reference are the performance of the Group and overseeing the delivery of available to view at www.
objectives and business plans within agreed timescales and Details of each of the committees activities and priorities budget.
The Group Chief Executive develops targets and goals during 2016 are contained in the committee reports on pages for his executive team and ensures succession plans for senior 65 to 101 which are incorporated into this Report by reference.
He represents the Company at industry events and develops the Companys communications The composition of each committee is reviewed by the strategy to meet the needs of and engage with all internal and Group Nomination and Governance Committee annually and external stakeholders.
additionally when there is a change to the Board.
Consideration is given to each individuals expertise and experience with a The Senior Independent Director supports the Chairman in view to cross-committee membership to raise awareness of the delivery of his responsibilities as required, ensuring the each committees work and focus.
In addition, the Chair of the views of each of the non-executive directors are given due Board Risk Committee attends the Remuneration Committee consideration and facilitating communication between when risk matters are discussed.
the non-executive directors and the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director holds meetings with the non-executive Following each committee meeting, a verbal update is presented to the Board ensuring that all directors are aware directors without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance as part of the internal Board of relevant topics and specific matters.
evaluation process and chairs the Group Nomination and Upon appointment, non-executive directors are invited Governance Committee when considering matters relating to attend each Board committee as part of their induction to the Chairman of the Board.
programme to familiarise themselves with the remit of the committee and matters discussed.
The role of the non-executive directors is to challenge and approve the Groups strategy and to assess and challenge The diagram opposite shows the Groups Board-level performance against business plans, bringing an independent, committees and their current composition.
objective view to the discussion.
Each of the non-executive directors is a member of one or more committees for which The key functions of Risk, Actuarial, Compliance and Internal they have the skills, knowledge and expertise required to Audit all report directly to a Board committee providing expert consider topics delegated for in-depth assessment.
They advice on their remits to the relevant committee and senior meet with the Chairman without the executive directors management.
being present and meet with the Senior Independent Director without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance and discuss other matters.
Each committee is chaired by a non-executive director who has the specialism and experience in the relevant field.
48 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 1 Board Group Audit Group Investment Group Nomination Group Remuneration Board Risk 2 3 5 6 Committee Committee and Governance Committee Committee 4 Committee Members: Members: Members: Members: Members: A Barbour Chair J Streppel Chair M Scicluna Chair H Mitchell Chair K Cates Chair K Cates A Barbour A Barbour E Cucchiani A Barbour J Streppel S Egan K Cates I Hudson I Hudson M Strobel S Hester H Mitchell J Streppel H Mitchell J Waterous M Scicluna J Waterous M Strobel M Strobel J Waterous Details of current directors, together with their biographical and committee membership details, are set out on pages 44 to 45.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings held during 2016 is shown in the table below.
Group Nomination Group Group Scheduled Additional Group Audit and Governance Remuneration Investment Board Risk 2 4 5 3 6 Group Boards Boards Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Martin Scicluna 9 9 5 5 5 5 2 2 2 2 Stephen Hester 9 9 5 5 2 2 Scott Egan 9 9 5 5 1 2 Alastair Barbour 9 9 3 5 6 6 5 5 2 2 4 4 Kath Cates 9 9 3 5 6 6 3 3 3 3 4 4 Enrico Cucchiani 9 9 4 5 6 6 2 2 Isabel Hudson 4 4 2 2 1 1 2 2 Hugh Mitchell 9 9 4 5 5 5 6 6 4 4 Joseph Streppel 9 9 5 5 6 6 6 6 2 2 Martin Strobel 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 Johanna Waterous 9 9 4 5 6 6 5 5 6 6 Notes: 1.
F or the composition of the Board, please refer to pages 44 to 45.
G roup Audit Committee: Martin Strobel joined the Committee on 1 May 2016.
Regular attendees: Group CFO, Group Chief Auditor, Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary and representatives from the External Auditor.
The Chairman attends ahead of RSAs full and half-year results.
G roup Investment Committee: Martin Strobel joined the Committee on 1 May 2016.
Regular attendees: Group Investments Director and Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary.
G roup Nomination & Governance Committee: Kath Cates joined the Committee on 1 March 2016.
Regular attendees: Group CEO and Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary.
G roup Remuneration Committee: Martin Strobel joined the Committee on 1 May 2016.
Kath Cates ceased to be a member on 1 July 2016.
Isabel Hudson joined the Committee on 1 November 2016.
Regular attendees: Chairman, Group CEO, Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary, Group HR Director and PWC as independent advisers to the Committee.
B oard Risk Committee: Enrico Cucchiani and Martin Scicluna ceased to be members of the Committee on 1 July 2016.
Isabel Hudson joined the Committee on 1 August 2016.
Regular attendees: Chairman, Group CFO, Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary, Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director and Group Underwriting Director.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance continued Effectiveness Role of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall strategy of the Group and together with the Company is committed to becoming best in class.
The Company has continued progress towards this ambition delivering many improvements and efficiencies across customer service, underwriting effectiveness and in respect of costs.
The Boards role in the delivery of this ambition is the oversight and challenge of the operations.
The primary responsibility of the Board is to provide effective Board visit to Peterborough Contact Centre leadership to ensure that it promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
The Board, supported by its committees, provides entrepreneurial The Board also visited the Canadian business and attended leadership within a framework of prudent and effective Canadian management presentations and met with employees controls.
The Board is accountable to stakeholders for the and local brokers to gain a deeper understanding of the creation and delivery of strong sustainable performance Canadian business.
The Board held a Board meeting during and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
its visit and took the opportunity to meet with the Canadian Regulator, management teams in the business and directors The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for attended regional committee meetings.
the Board which is reviewed on an annual basis and updated as necessary.
The Board sets annual objectives for the business in Effectiveness of the Board line with the current Group strategy and monitors achievement The Board considers that the information provided to the against these objectives through regular reports.
These include Board and its committees is supplied in a timely manner and updates from the Group CEO, the Group CFO and other relevant is of an appropriate quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
members of senior management or executives on all material The Board continually challenges management to ensure that business matters.
the flow and quality of information to the Board is of a high The directors may exercise all the powers of the Company standard.
A review and refresh of Board and committee subject to the Articles of Association, relevant law and any papers was undertaken during the year and a framework directions that may be given by the Company at general implemented to enhance the information provided to the meetings by shareholder resolution.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings and is responsible for the running of meetings ensuring sufficient Key activities of the Board during 2016 time for discussion and constructive challenge.
When a Throughout the year, the Board and its committees have director is not available to attend a meeting, his her views focused on four key areas: strategy and growth, risk are canvassed by the Chairman prior to the relevant meeting management and internal control, financial performance where possible, and the Board informed of their opinions and and governance, ensuring that a broad range of matters observations.
When considering matters such as the approval are considered and sufficient time is spent on these areas.
of financial statements and large operational contracts, the Board may delegate authority to a Board sub-committee Following the implementation of Solvency II on 1 January 2016, to finalise and approve as required.
the Board, Audit and Risk Committees are required to monitor regulatory capital measures and the delivery of additional Formal minutes recording the decisions of all Board and reporting to the Prudential Regulation Authority Regulator.
committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each director.
If a director objects to a particular decision, The Board has spent time in the business both collectively this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
and as individuals, delving into specific business areas through presentations and meetings, dialogue with management and regional visits to take a closer look at and gain a better understanding of the operational side of the business.
During 2016 the Board visited a Personal Lines contact centre in Peterborough to gain a better understanding of customer experiences and also met with some of the Groups Affinity partners with whom the Group carries out business.
50 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Focus of the Board and committees during 2016 Breakdown of topics discussed at Board meetings held during 2016 The Chairman, in consultation with the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary, maintains a rolling agenda of items a.
Financial Performance 25% for consideration by the Board and its committees.
This is c. Risk Management continually refreshed in line with the needs of the business.
d & Internal Control 20% Below is a summary of key matters the Board and its d. Governance 19% a committees have focused on during 2016. c b Strategy and Growth Financial Performance Overall Group Strategy and strategic business reviews Monthly review of performance Performance against objectives Formulate Operational Plans and monitor delivery against them Regional and functional updates Financial control framework Business transformation Financial reporting and controls IT development and strategy Review of capital position Business disposals Solvency II measures and reporting including Internal model Approval of significant business contracts Reserving Investor feedback and market sentiment.
Review of investment and pension performance: investment strategy and performance, economic and market development and outlook External audit plan.
Risk Management and Internal Control Governance Group risk appetite Board and committee effectiveness reviews and evaluation Risk management system Board and executive succession planning and associated appointments Monitoring material business risks: Insurance, financial, reinsurance operational, emerging, capital, Solvency II, Board composition: balance, experience, skills, independence conduct, customer, regulatory, FX, pension and IT risk and diversity Review of risk profiles Director and executive remuneration Stress and scenario testing Review of matters reserved for the Board, role statements and committee terms of reference Own Risk Solvency Assessment ORSA System of governance and internal control Internal controls Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code Internal Audit Plan and outcomes Corporate responsibility Group Policy review Legal and regulatory training and updates.
Financial control framework Financial reporting and controls Financial crime, bribery, money laundering and whistleblowing.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance continued Commitment Induction, Training and Development The Group Nomination and Governance Committee undertakes The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, has a review of Directors time commitment annually.
The letters of responsibility for the induction programme, training appointment for the Chairman and each of the non-executive schedules and professional development of the directors.
directors set out their anticipated time commitment, being an The Board receives briefings on matters of importance to average of two days per week for the Chairman and 28-32 days the Group.
During the year, the Board spent a considerable per year for non-executive directors.
In addition directors are amount of time outside board meetings, meeting with senior required to allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of management including those from UK Commercial, UK Personal the role, including attending Board and committee meetings, ad Lines and various business functions in Canada to enhance hoc meetings, training and briefings with senior management business knowledge of specific business areas.
as part of their induction and ongoing development programme and attendance at the Annual General Meeting.
Upon appointment to the Board, directors undertake a tailored induction programme, receiving a broad range of information In 2016, the Group Nomination and Governance Committee about the Group.
This includes information on the operational concluded that the commitment set out in directors performance and business of the Group and details of appointment letters remained appropriate, with additional Board procedures, corporate governance and directors time to be spent in the business as required.
During 2016, each responsibilities, along with a series of meetings with senior of the directors has demonstrated flexibility and commitment management covering all aspects of the business.
In addition by attending Board and committee meetings, some of which each new director is invited to attend each of the Board were called at short notice, have made themselves available committees at least once during their induction.
to meet with the Regulator as required, and spent additional time in the business.
During the year both Martin Strobel and Isabel Hudson undertook bespoke induction programmes which included Martin Scicluna is also the Chairman of Great Portland Estates one-to-one meetings with senior management from plc and Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee all business areas and met with the external auditor.
Chairman of Worldpay Group plc.
The Group Nomination and Governance Committee considered these appointments Directors have attended training sessions and seminars during when considering the Chairmans time commitment.
the course of the year to enhance their knowledge and keep their experience relevant.
Each director has an individual Stephen Hester was appointed as a Non-Executive Director training plan which is reviewed by the Chairman.
Training of Centrica plc on 1 June 2016 and became Senior Independent themes during the year have included Solvency II, Market Abuse Director on 1 October 2016.
This appointment was considered Regulation, Audit Committee updates and risk reporting.
by the Group Nomination and Governance Committee in respect of Stephens time commitment and delivery of his duties as Group Chief Executive.
Scott Egan is not currently a director of any other listed companies but would be allowed to have one such appointment, subject to approval from the Group Nomination and Governance Committee.
The Board is satisfied that both Martins and Stephens My induction was both tailored appointments are not a constraint on their time or ability to carry out their duties.
and comprehensive, enabling me Service agreements and letters of appointment, for all the to understand the operations, Executive and Non-Executive Directors, are available for strengths and challenges of the inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The programme included Senior Management meetings detailed information on the insurance included as part of Induction programme sector and businesses in all the Capital regions where the Group has a Claims presence and the journey for each Company Secretarial and Legal External Auditor to progress towards best in class.
HR This has complemented my Internal Audit experience in the European Investments insurance sector and provided IT and e-business a useful platform for my role Regulatory Compliance as a Non-Executive Director.
Reserving Risk Martin Strobel Underwriting.
Independent Non-Executive Director 52 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report External Performance Evaluation Process Having previous experience in the Review of insurance industry, the in-depth documentation induction programme gave me an insight into the operations of the Board to agree Group during which I met with actions Interviews senior management in the business.
The programme was tailored to Performance evaluation my business experience, and has allowed me to better understand Evaluation of findings discussed Attendance at and challenge the business in my individually Board meetings non-executive role.
As part of my induction I spent time in the UK, Discussion document Canadian and Scandinavian businesses outlining views to better understand their key to Board operations, challenges and risks, along with their contribution to the Group.
Isabel Hudson Independent Non-Executive Director Board Evaluation and stakeholders, with a view to providing an independent To ensure the Board remains effective, and compliant with analysis of strengths and challenges, with priorities and the UK Corporate Governance Code, a performance evaluation recommendations for 2017 and beyond.
This is undertaken by an external The results of the evaluation concluded that, over the independent party at least once every three years, with the previous three years, the Board had made demonstrable intervening years run internally.
The Chairman leads the internal progress building on its strengths, and showed a significant process with support from both the Senior Independent improvement in its effectiveness and ability to add value.
Director and the Company Secretary, comprising online The Board and its committees were operating effectively and questionnaires and subsequent meetings.
The views of that there was a positive Board culture which demonstrated directors and regular attendees to Board meetings are values-based leadership.
The Boards composition had a canvassed focusing on key areas identified in the previous good balance of skills, diversity of experience with increased years evaluation and the business during the relevant year.
sector expertise and had a good spread of tenure.
Board and The results from the evaluation are presented to the Board committee interaction had been enhanced with a mix of formal and an action plan developed for the following year.
Each year, and informal meetings, including non-executive director only progress against actions is monitored for progress.
meetings and additional business site visits.
Whilst there was During 2016, an external evaluation was carried out by a high volume of information provided to the Board, this was Boardroom Review Limited Boardroom Review.
Boardroom aided by a clear determination of matters for discussion and Review has been providing independent advice to boards the time dedicated to ensure a combination of presentation to assess their effectiveness since 2004, and undertook and debate by directors.
the Groups Board evaluation in 2013.
The Board felt that The main priorities identified were: Boardroom Review was well placed to assess the progress to consolidate focus on longer-term strategy in preparation the Board had made since the last external evaluation in 2013. for the completion of the transformation of the Company.
Boardroom Review has no other connection with the Company.
to focus on embedding the cultural transformation and The evaluation, which was conducted over a number of executive succession planning at all levels.
months, included a detailed review of Board and committee documentation, individual interviews with each of the It was acknowledged that continuing to build on the directors, the Company Secretary, the Chief Risk Officer existing knowledge and skills remained an important and the CEO of the UK and International business.
Dr Long focus, with particular attention to technology, customer from Boardroom Review also attended Board and committee understanding and a geographical relevance aligned to meetings as an observer.
The review considered Board the business operations.
culture, composition and choreography, use of time and quality of information, strategy, risk and control, leadership RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance continued 2013 Board Evaluation External evaluation by Three-Year Journey independent consultants: review of information provided to Board and committees, individual Board member interviews, attendance at meetings as observer, and report findings to the Board The Board has used the results of internal and external evaluations to identify areas for focus and, over the past three years, has made enhancements to its effectiveness Personal Lines deep dive at Peterborough Long-term vision Board and committee Alignment of performance interaction and reward A greater emphasis on and refinement of the longer-term strategy and vision of To increase the visibility by nonTo increase understanding and focus the Group, with additional focus on the executive directors of the work on performance and reward to risks emerging from culture and strategy.
of each of the Board committees.
achieve alignment of incentive systems throughout the Group, including key Progress Progress achievement milestones in line with Introduction of an annual two-day strategy Board committee composition was reviewed the three-year strategic plan.
meetings in addition to regional business and changes made to achieve appropriate updates.
Recent focus on developing trends, cross-committee membership.
In addition, including the digital market, and business upon appointment, each non-executive Progress transformation over the longer term with a director is invited to attend all committees The Group Remuneration Policy is well aligned view to achieving best in class.
Risk reviews are regardless of membership on an ongoing basis.
The incentive plan undertaken against culture and transformation, performance measures have been strengthened Additional informal meetings between the along with the development of a Culture Health to reflect progress made during the course of Chairman and non-executive directors are Assessment which aims to identify early signs of the Business Review.
In addition, provisions now scheduled as routine.
cultural risk, and support internal audits of risk for clawback were established in January culture.
A refreshed focus on matters reviewed 2015.
There has been a focus by the Board to by the Board has been undertaken identify strategic priorities and integrate these and is constantly under review.
into the Groups evolving executive culture.
The Board received quarterly updates on the transformation programme and associated risks which is now part of the regional business review update.
Capabilities Review the Groups operational and commercial capabilities.
Board experience Progress To identify and appoint additional The increased focus on, and interaction with, the business has strengthened the Boards non-executive directors with specific insights into the business and its capabilities.
knowledge and experience within the The Board receives regular updates on the general insurance sector, IT, operational operating landscape, performance, market trends and the status of the transformation and transformation expertise.
Progress Since 2014, three new non-executive directors have been appointed with significant insurance, financial services and business development expertise as well as international board experience.
These appointments have enhanced and broadened the diversity and relevant experience of the Board.
54 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 2014 2015 2016 Internal evaluation: Board and committee external questionnaires covering composition, evaluation performance, oversight, knowledge and understanding and action for 2017 and beyond The results of the 2016 external evaluation concluded that, over the previous three years, the Board had Meeting with management in Canada made demonstrable progress building on its strengths, and showed a significant Stakeholders Succession planning improvement in its effectiveness and ability to add value.
The main priorities An increased level of time spent within To increase the Boards role in executive identified were: the business with a focus on interaction succession planning and involvement to consolidate focus on longer-term with senior management, customers, in the review of the Groups culture strategy in preparation for the brokers, key shareholders and regulators, and engagement.
completion of the transformation to obtain greater insight and technical of the Company.
knowledge of the business and Progress The Board has received updates on culture, relevant issues.
to focus on embedding the cultural cultural risk and employee engagement.
transformation and executive Members of the Board have attended global Progress leadership conferences and a variety of succession planning at all levels.
A rolling programme of visits has been executive, senior management, women in leadership and executive development established, to explore in depth specific business areas, their operational strengths and programme events to build relationships weaknesses, understand technical and topical with high potential executives.
issues to strive to become best in class.
The Succession plans for the Board and Group Board has met with regulators, shareholders, Executive have been reviewed by the Board and distribution partners, brokers and employees Group Nomination and Governance Committee.
as part of this programme.
Quality of information to the Board To review the information flow and quality of information submitted to the Board.
Progress The Group Nomination and Governance Committees responsibilities have expanded to include oversight and approval of the Board rolling agenda, ensuring that appropriate focus is given on key matters.
A new framework and guidance has been implemented in 2016 for all Board and committee papers, to improve the quality of information being presented to the Board and its committees in support of the directors discharging their duties.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance continued The Group operates under a common framework through which risk management and control is embedded.
Each Accountability business within the Group is required to follow consistent process using a common language to identify, measure, manage, monitor and report its risks, in line with a consistent and comprehensive set of policies.
Risk Strategy and Risk Appetite are updated on an annual basis in line with the strategic review.
The risk appetite is communicated to the Regions, countries and legal entities The Group operates within a robust governance structure who set local risk limits and tolerance levels aligned to to ensure a well-managed business with effective decisionGroup risk appetite.
making, procedures and strong internal reporting, ensuring that the Group complies with all relevant legislation The Risk Management processes are mandated in the and regulation in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
overarching Risk Management Policy, which is approved by the Group Board and subject to annual update and The Groups System of Governance comprises three elements: review.
The overarching Risk Management Policy establishes 1.
Corporate Governance Framework: a framework of standard risk management processes.
how the business is managed.
It also defines the dependencies and interaction with the 3 1 2.
Risk Management System: how risks ORSA and the Groups approach to stress and scenario testing.
are identified, measured, managed, monitored and reported.
Internal Control System The Group has an effective internal control system in place 3.
Internal Control System: the controls which sets out the processes and frameworks required to 2 behind the Corporate Governance ensure effective and efficient delivery of the Groups strategic Framework and the Risk objectives, including reliability and availability of information Management System.
to identify and mitigate any potential risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It does not eliminate risk.
The Board Corporate Governance Framework has overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the internal The purpose of the Corporate Governance Framework is to control system.
ensure effective and efficient decision-making by the Board The Internal Control System comprises three key elements: and its committees, aligning to Group strategy of focused, stronger and better.
Internal Control Framework, whereby policies establish standard controls, which are implemented and operated by The Corporate Governance Framework ensures that both the business: supplemented by objective 1st Line validation directors and employees act within a chain of authority and and independent 2nd Line assurance processes.
The Internal powers which stretches back to the shareholders as ultimate Control Framework includes Financial Controllership, owners of the Group.
It provides the framework which whereby the Group Controllership Policy sets out the supports the realisation of its business strategy, supports its standard control processes to mitigate against material long-term success and safeguards compliance with applicable financial reporting misstatement and financial loss.
It is subject to assurance through the Financial Control The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and Framework.
delivery of strong sustainable performance and the creation 2.
Delegated Authority Framework, whereby authority of long-term shareholder value.
The Board meets frequently is cascaded down from the Board to the business.
and is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of Day-to-day management of the Group is undertaken by the the Group in a manner that will promote the success of the Group CEO and his team supported through executive level Company and is consistent with good corporate governance committees.
Authority is delegated from the Board to the practice, ensuring that the Group is carrying out its duties Group CEO through the Delegated Authority Framework and and continues to meet legal and regulatory requirements.
onwards delegation to senior management who receive an The business of the Group is overseen by the Board, who may Executive Licence setting out their specific limits of authority exercise all the powers of the Group subject to the Articles of in terms of entering into financial, underwriting, claims and Association, relevant laws, and any directions as may be given other business commitments.
Each executive is responsible by shareholders at a general meeting by shareholder resolution.
for ensuring a similar process of delegation is in place within The directors may delegate any of their powers or discretions his or her area of responsibility.
This framework enables to committees.
The specific duties of the Board are clearly the business to: set out as a formal Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board, ensure that all employees execute their responsibilities which can only be amended by the Board itself and which within clearly defined limits and subject to specified terms is reviewed annually.
and conditions appropriate to their role, competence, experience and technical capability so as to mitigate the Risk Management System risk of the Group being exposed committed to material The Risk Management System is underpinned by the Three financial, operational, legal, reputational and or regulatory Lines of Defence model.
The Group Board are responsible risk and or loss for ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups Risk Management ensure that the risks associated with managing and System: for setting the Groups overall risk strategy and risk delegating authorities are mitigated through the use appetite including Group level risk limits and tolerances : of appropriate preventative and detective controls and for approving the main risk management strategies and remain within the risk appetite and policies.
56 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report ensure compliance with relevant regulatory and statutory UK Corporate Governance Code requirements The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out standards and expectations on corporate governance provide clarity to the business on who can make what matters for UK companies.
The Group Nomination and type and level of decisions, enabling swift escalation Governance Committee monitors compliance with the Code.
F rom time to time additional authorities are delegated Throughout the year, the Company has complied with the to the Group CEO from the Board to cover specific matters Code and this report together with the Strategic Report as required.
and committee reports demonstrates how the Principles and Provisions of the Code have been applied.
Regulatory Compliance Framework, whereby the Regulatory Compliance Policy sets out the standard control processes to Explore online minimise and or prevent the risk of material loss, reputational The Financial Reporting Council are damage or liability arising from the failure to comply with responsible for the publication and regulatory requirements.
This also ensures that the Group periodic review of the Code.
The latest version of the Code, published in 2016 deals with regulators in an open and co-operative manner can be found at www.
and keeps them fully and promptly informed of all matters.
Ultimate responsibility for compliance with the relevant rules and regulations rests with the Board, the executive and the senior management in each business.
Advice, challenge, and interpretation is provided to these bodies by the Regulatory Risk and Compliance function.
Corporate Governance Framework Structure of Board and Committees Board Group Audit Group Investment Group Nomination Group Remuneration Board Risk Committee Committee and Governance Committee Committee Committee RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Own Risk & Risk Strategy Internal Internal Control Risk & Compliance Internal Solvency Appetite & Profile Model Framework Functions Audit Assessment Delegated Regulatory Stress and Internal External Authority Compliance Policies Scenario Model Audit Framework Framework Testing Governance Incident Emerging Financial Control Control Management Risks Framework Assurance Actuarial Control Validation Function Key: First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance continued The Group has a close working relationship with trade unions and employee associations in all parts of the business where Engagement they exist and consults with employees and representatives on relevant matters taking their views into consideration.
There is also a European Works Council which consults with employee representatives on transnational matters across UK, Ireland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany.
In 2016, the UK business became a Living Wage accredited Customer employer paying the Living Wage rates for London and other The Group knows that customer focus is key to the success parts of the UK.
The Company has been paying the Living of the business.
One of the Groups main strategic goals is the Wage for many years, but is now pleased to receive this ambition of delivering improvements in customer service.
During the year, the Board spent time in the Peterborough During 2016, major changes were made in the UK to the contact centre which is a key centre for the Groups personal terms and conditions of employees in relation to pension and lines intermediated business, to gain a deeper understanding redundancy.
This involved a lengthy process of engagement of the core capabilities to deliver the best products and services and consultation with employees and their representatives for the Groups customers, how the affinity and retail business which took into account employee views in the decision is growing and the impact of the Groups business making process and resulted in the closure of the UK Defined transformation.
This assisted the Board in understanding the Benefit Schemes to future accrual effective from 31 March market challenges and the Groups positioning within each 2017.
There is also a new UK Redundancy Policy effective from business segment.
During the visit the Board met with senior 1January 2017 for those employees recruited before April 2013. management of some of the Groups UK affinity partners.
The Group is committed to diversity and the promotion of The Board also visited Canada to gain a deeper understanding equal opportunities through its Equal Opportunities Policy.
of RSA Canadas capabilities, operational excellence, multiFollowing the launch in 2013 of a new diversity and inclusion channel distribution business and understand the impact of programme, the Group has continued to invest in strengthening the transformation programme on the customer experience.
its pipeline of female employees for senior leadership positions.
During the visit, the Board met with representatives from over The Group is committed, wherever possible, to employing and 40 broker companies who work with RSA Canada.
These visits supporting people who are disabled, or become disabled during underpin the importance the Board places on customer focus their career with the Group.
In 2016, the Group reinvigorated in becoming best in class.
its efforts to build greater diversity across all levels of the For over 300 years the Group has been helping to protect organisation and create a more inclusive culture which customers all over the world against risk events and attracts, encourages and capitalises on diverse perspectives, uncertainty.
To ensure the business remains relevant, customer establishing a stronger foundation for the Groups success.
feedback is regularly sought to help improve service and The Group recognises that having a diverse workforce and products.
The primary measure used to do this is the universally supporting inclusive culture is vital for the future of the Group.
recognised Net Promoter Score NPS, which produces a Diversity of thought, background and experience enables customer satisfaction score based on a scale of 1 to 10. the Group to innovate and create better solutions for our The NPS can be collected for various elements of a customers customers.
Additional information, together with a breakdown interaction with the Group, such as when obtaining a quote, of the Groups diversity statistics, can be found in the Strategic making a claim or a general impression of the business.
In Report on pages 4 and 41 and are incorporated into this Report addition to NPS, the Group track a range of other metrics that by reference.
differ by product and region including: retention, complaint levels, trust and product advocacy.
Customer retention rates Regulators are collated by product lines across the business and in 2016, The Board is responsible to the PRA and the FCA for complying the retention rate stood at 80 percent at an aggregated Group with the Groups UK insurance regulatory obligations.
The business focuses on sustainably improving these The Board attaches great importance to its regulatory metrics and specifically targets upper quartile NPS scores, by responsibilities and is committed to dealing with regulators focusing on putting the customer first in everything that it does.
in an open, co-operative and transparent manner.
The Board paid close attention to the expectations of the PRA and FCA Employees with particular focus on embedding Solvency II and conduct The performance and expertise of the Groups employees are matters.
During the year the PRA and FCA conducted private key to the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
In 2016 meetings with several members of the Board and executive Korn Ferry Hays Group were engaged to support the Groups management and the PRA attended a Board meeting to discuss employee enablement and engagement strategy.
In January their supervisory strategy for the forthcoming year with the 2017 employees shared their views, ideas and suggestions Board.
Regular management information is provided to assist through a Group-wide employee survey.
The results will be the Regulators with the supervision of the Group.
The Group shared across the organisation, benchmarked to industry and comprises a number of regulated entities across different HR will support leaders and employees to build action plans jurisdictions and is committed to maintaining effective to implement positive changes.
The Group also continue to relationships with each of its regulators across the world, focus on a number of platforms where employees can provide believing this to be integral to the success of the Groups feedback and have employed an engagement tool called strategy and its long-term value.
Yammer across the UK, Ireland, Scandinavia and Canada.
58 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Rating agencies Annual greenhouse gas emissions The Group is rated on an interactive basis by Standard & Poors In accordance with Part 7 of The Companies Act 2006 and Moodys.
Their insurance financial strength ratings as at Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, 22February 2017 are A stable outlook and A2 stable outlook certain disclosures are required in respect of greenhouse gas respectively.
These ratings were affirmed following the 2016 emissions the Strategic Report GHG Emission disclosures.
half-year results and the positive progress on implementing the The information to fulfil this requirement can be found strategic restructuring programme previously announced by here and on our Corporate Responsibility webpages the Company.
In addition, both agencies spent a day with senior www.
management discussing Group strategy, financial plans, capital and risk management.
Greenhouse gas emissions for RSA Insurance Group plc tonnes of CO e 2 Public affairs 2016 2015 2014 The Group contributes to public policy debates on issues Scope 1 3,336 6,115 12,279 relevant to the business, either individually or through industry bodies such as the Investment Association, the Association 12,364 17,275 24,717 Scope 2 of British Insurers and the Confederation of British Industry.
Scope 3 11,470 15,907 16,376 This can include issues such as fraud, motor and pet insurance, Business travel 9,238 13,050 asbestos, compensation culture, financial services regulation Total gross tonnes CO e 27,170 39,297 53,372 and renewable energy.
The Group engages with policymakers 2 to improve understanding of the role the insurance industry Notes: plays in society and the economy.
The emissions for 2015 and 2016 have been calculated using a different organisational scope to previous years, reporting all sources of emissions Employees apply the principles of openness, transparency, from operations with 50 or more full-time equivalent FTE employees.
In previous years, emissions from offices with less than 50 employees honesty and integrity to all of their activities with policymakers.
were estimated, but these have been removed from the scope of the The Group adheres to principles of best practice, declaring the 2015 and 2016 reported emissions.
Previously, some Scope 3 emissions were misreported as Scope 1 emissions.
This has resulted in a significant interests which it represents and ensuring that, to the best of reduction in Scope 1 emissions from 201415 and again in 201516. its knowledge, information provided is unbiased, complete, up Due to these changes, we restated our baseline year as 2015 for our to date and not misleading.
Each year the Company proposes a carbon reduction target and amended our target accordingly.
resolution authorising political expenditure up to 100,000 for each of donations to political parties and independent election Selected data for 2016 as indicated by the symbol has been candidates, donations to political organisations and incurring independently assured by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000 political expenditure.
This resolution is proposed in the Revised and ISAE 3410.
For further information, please event that the funding of seminars, functions and charitable refer to our reporting criteria and PwCs assurance opinion donations by the Group may be regarded as political in nature.
which can be found on our Corporate Responsibility pages During the year the Group has not made any donations to at www.
political parties or independent election candidates.
Scope 1: Emissions from the Groups sources that are The challenging political landscape following Brexit is by no controlled by us, including the combustion of fuel, means played out, and the potential problems it brings to the company-owned vehicles and the operation of our facilities.
The Group is however shielded from Scope 2: Emissions from the consumption of purchased any substantive impact by virtue of its non-sterling profits electricity, heat or steam.
and legal group structure which broadly comprises regulated European subsidiaries.
The majority of the Group does not Scope 3: Emissions from non-owned sources that are related rely on Freedom of Services EU passporting to transact a to the Groups activities, including business travel and the use significant amount of business.
Although the Group may need of water, paper and waste generated.
to apply for some additional licences following Brexit, it is Business travel: Emissions from flights, trains, taxis, hotels not currently anticipated that the Group will need to make and vehicles not owned by the organisation.
This has been wholesale changes to the structure of its operations.
separately assured and reported in 2015 and 2016.
Corporate Responsibility The Groups Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2014-18 Methodology addresses the Groups most relevant environmental and social Our disclosures cover all sources of greenhouse gas emissions issues.
The Groups Corporate Responsibility approach is based as required by the Strategic Report GHG Emission disclosures, on the Boards commitment to run the business in a way that aligning with our financial control boundaries and including all stakeholders can be proud of, at the same time as making all emissions from operations with 50 or more full-time a positive impact on society and the environment.
More detail equivalent employees, covering the period 1 January 2016 can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 34 to 35 and 31 December 2016. on the Groups website at www.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance continued Where data is not provided by the operating entity, estimates Calendar of Investor Relations Activity have been provided based on relative calculations against other businesses within the Company.
Our reporting has been February carried out with consideration of the World Business Council 2015 Full Year Results for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institutes Post-results roadshow UK WBCSD WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a Corporate March Accounting and Reporting Standard, together with the latest Barclays UK Select Conference New York emissions factors from recognised public sources including, but not limited to, Department of Environment and Rural Morgan Stanley European Financials Conference London Affairs, the International Energy Agency, the US Energy April Information Association, the US Environmental Protection Corporate Governance dinner with top shareholders Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
May Shareholders First quarter trading update During 2016, the Company held nearly 400 meetings Annual General Meeting with institutional investors, and met with 17 of the top 20 Redburn European Conference Toronto shareholders on at least one occasion.
The key themes of these meetings centred on the future ambition and capability June of the Group and capital foundation.
The Groups share register Deutsche Bank Global Financial Services Conference includes institutional investors predominantly from the New York UK, Europe and North America with a range of investment Goldman Sachs European Financials Conference Paris styles.
Further information is set out later in this section.
Autonomous Insurance Conference London The Group remains committed to maintaining high July levels of transparency and disclosure to investors to Investor roadshow Switzerland aid understanding of the Companys investment case.
August The Group continually monitors and evaluates its disclosures 2016 half-year results to ensure they remain informative and relevant.
September AGM KBW UK & European Financials Conference London At the 2016 AGM, an average of 71.1 percent of the total issued Barclays Global Financial Services Conference New York share capital was voted across all resolutions, with an average of 98.3 percent voting For each resolution.
Post results roadshow London BofAML Financials CEO Conference London The 2017 AGM will be held at 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD on Friday, 5 May 2017 at 11.00am.
A letter from the October Chairman and the notice convening the AGM Notice is made Ad hoc inbound investor meetings available to all Ordinary Shareholders at least 20 working days November before the meeting and can be found on the Companys Third quarter trading update website at www.
Presentations will be given on the Groups performance and activities during 2016 UBS European Conference London and the financial results of the Company prior to the formal J. P. Morgan Cazenove Best of British Conference London business of the meeting.
All directors attend the AGM if they December are able to do so, with the Chairman and each Board committee Ad hoc inbound investor meetings Chairman making themselves available to take questions from Ordinary Shareholders.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each item of business.
In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association, any proxy form sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be returned to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting, excluding non-business days or, in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at, or on, the same day as the meeting, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
At any general meeting, every Ordinary Shareholder present shall have one vote on a show of hands and on a poll, every Ordinary Shareholder present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each Ordinary Share of which he she is the holder.
Each resolution will be put to a poll at the AGM in 2017.
The results of the vote on each resolution will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and will be available on the Companys website, www.
60 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Preference Shareholders are only entitled to receive notice The Company operates a sponsored American Depositary of, attend, speak and vote at general meetings if the dividend Receipts ADR programme which is managed by JP Morgan payable on the Preference Shares is in arrears at the date of the Chase NA.
The programme allows shareholders to invest in Notice, a resolution is proposed that affects the rights of the the Company through US dollar denominated funds.
One ADR preference shareholders, a resolution is proposed to wind-up represents one Ordinary Share of 1.00 each.
the Company, a resolution is proposed to reduce the capital of More information on the Companys share capital can be the Company other than a redemption or purchase of shares, found in note 32 on page 157. or in such other circumstances as the Board shall determine.
In any of these situations the Preference Shareholders may only vote on the relevant resolution and not on all the business of the general meeting.
Share Capital The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol RSA.
The Company has two classes of shares: Ordinary Shares of 1.00 each and Preference Shares of 1.00 each.
The Preference Shares are entitled to a fixed income, but the Ordinary Shares carry no right to a fixed income.
The Preference Shares rank on a winding-up in priority to the Ordinary Shares.
As at 31 December 2016, the Ordinary Shares and Preference Shares represented 89 percent and 11 percent respectively of Financial Calendar the Companys total issued share capital.
Directors are limited 2 March 2017 as to the number of shares they can allot save in respect of Ex-dividend date for the ordinary final dividend for 2016 employee share schemes.
Renewal of the directors authorities and the first preference dividend for 2017. to allot shares will be sought at the 2017 AGM.
In addition, directors are restricted by the limits set out by the Investment 3 March 2017 Association.
During 2016, the directors exercised their Record date for the ordinary final dividend for 2016 and authorities to allot shares only in respect of employee share the first preference dividend for 2017. schemes.
The average total daily trading volume on the London 3 April 2017 Stock Exchange during 2016 was approximately 2.7m Ordinary Payment date for the first preference dividend for 2017.
The opening market price of an ordinary share on 4 January 2016 was 418.0 pence and the closing market price 4 May 2017 on 30 December 2016 was 586.0 pence which was the highest Q1 Trading Update.
daily closing price of an ordinary share during 2016.
The lowest 5 May 2017 daily closing price was 373.2 pence on 9February 2016.
are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the 12 May 2017 general provisions of the Articles of Association and legislation.
Payment date for the ordinary final dividend for 2016.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between the 3 August 2017 Companys shareholders that may result in restrictions on Announcement of the half-year results for the six months the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Company ended 30 June 2017. may purchase any of its own shares including any redeemable shares.
An authority from ordinary shareholders for the 10 August 2017 Company to purchase up to 101, 754, 340 of its own Ordinary Ex-dividend date for the second preference dividend for 2017.
Shares representing 10 percent of its issued share capital as 11 August 2017 at 7 March 2016, was passed at the 2016 AGM.
This authority Record date for the second preference dividend for 2017. will expire at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM and a new authority will be sought.
The authority was not exercised 7 September 2017 during the year.
Ex-dividend date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2017.
During the year, the Company operated two employee benefit 8 September 2017 trusts to hold Ordinary Shares in the Company which are used Record date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2017. to satisfy grants under the Groups share incentive schemes.
2 October 2017 Capita Trustees Limited and Capita IRG Trustees, respectively, are the Trustees.
The Trustees may vote in respect of any Payment date for the second preference dividend for 2017. shares held in the trusts but have no obligation to do so, 13 October 2017 and Trustees may have regard to the financial interests of Payment date of the ordinary interim dividend for 2017. the beneficiaries in exercising their voting rights over the Companys shares.
Standard dividend waiver agreements 2 November 2017 are in place for the employee share trusts to receive dividends Q3 Trading Update.
provisional date RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance continued Dividends Following the implementation of regulatory changes applicable The directors therefore recommend a final dividend subject to to the Group from 1 January 2016, in order for the Companys the dividend being cancelled, withheld or deferred of 11 pence Ordinary Shares to be counted towards the new group capital per Ordinary Share 2015:7 pence to be paid on 12 May 2017 requirements, any dividends declared by the Company must to holders of Ordinary Shares on the register at the close of be capable of being cancelled and withheld or deferred at any business on 3 March 2017, subject to Ordinary Shareholder time prior to payment, if the relevant capital requirements approval.
An interim dividend of 5 pence was paid during 2016, have been breached or payment of the dividend would lead making the total proposed dividend for the year 16 pence 2015: to non-compliance with those requirements.
The Company will not be offering a Scrip Dividend to the Articles of Association reflecting this requirement alternative in respect of the final dividend.
The Companys was passed by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
Directors do Preference Shares receive a dividend at the rate of 7.375 percent not expect to exercise this right, other than where they believe per annum paid in two instalments on, or as near as practicably that it may be necessary to do so in light of the applicable possible, to 1 April and 1 October each year subject to approval legal or regulatory requirements.
1 Substantial share interests The following table shows the holdings of major shareholders as disclosed to the Company in accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules as at 31 December 2016 and at the date of this Report.
31 December 2016 22 February 2017 No of Ordinary % of voting No of Ordinary % of voting Shareholder name Shares rights Nature of holding Shares rights Nature of holding Ameriprise Financial, Inc, and 75,871,245 7.46% Direct & Indirect 75,871,245 7.46% Direct & Indirect its group BlackRock, Inc 55,359,399 5.43% Indirect, 55,359,399 5.43% Indirect, Securities Securities Lending & CFD Lending & CFD Cevian Capital II G. P. Limited 133,068,287 13.12% Indirect & CFD 133,068,287 13.12% Indirect & CFD Notes: 1.
W here the Company has been informed that the threshold for notifications is 5 percent in accordance with DTR 5.1.
5, interests below this threshold are not included in this table.
Distribution of shares by geography as at 31 December 2016 Analysis of Registered Holders as at 31 December 2016 a. UK 54.22% a.
Unit Trust Mutual funds 56.2% b. Europe 16.08% b.
