CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Compliance Statement The Board is committed to high Explanations E. 1.1 The Code recommends that standards of corporate governance A.
3.1 The Code recommends that the thesenior independent director should andmanages Sagas operations in chairman of the board should meet the attend sufficient meetings with a range accordance with the UK Corporate independence criteria set out in the of major shareholders to listen to Governance Code 2014 the Code.
theirviews in order to help develop Afull version of the Code can be found abalanced understanding of their on the Financial Reporting Councils Andrew Goodsell acts as Chairman and issues and concerns.
was not independent on appointment, FRC website www.
The Company complied with all of the having previously been the Group Chief Most contact with majorshareholders Executive and Executive Chairman.
has taken place via the Chairman, provisions of the Code throughout theyear, except for provisions Andrew is responsible for the leadership Group Chief Executive Officer and and overall effectiveness of the Board Group Chief Financial Officer and A.
1.1. and setting the Boards agenda.
During weconsider this appropriate for this the year, Andrews responsibilities were year.
The Senior Independent Director aligned with those normally undertaken has been available for meetings with by a Non-Executive Chairman, as ourmajor shareholders but has recommended by the Code.
During notattended any during the year.
theperiod that Andrew was Executive Notwithstanding this, we have Chairman, Philip Green, our Senior maintained an ongoing dialogue with Independent Director, had certain our major shareholders and ensured responsibilities which went beyond their views are communicated to those contemplated in the Code, the Board.
Details can be found notably inrelation to the appointment onpage 77of this report.
of independent Non-Executive Directors tothe Committees.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer and role of Senior Independent Director were reviewed and approved by the Board on 8 December 2015.
This document is reviewed annually.
52 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Viability statement Fair, balanced and understandable The Directors have a reasonable The Directors have considered the In accordance with the principles of expectation that the Company has viability of the Group over the five year the Code, the Board has established adequate resources to continue period to January 2021 and have arrangements to evaluate whether in operational existence for the concluded there to be a reasonable the information presented in the forseeable future.
It is therefore expectation that the Group will be annual report is fair, balanced and appropriate to adopt the going ableto continue in operation and understandable.
Having taken advice concern basis in preparing the meetits liabilities as they fall due from the Audit Committee, the Board financial statements.
considers the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, Assessment of risk The Directors have determined the balanced and understandable and Through the risk cycle detailed on five year period to January 2021 to provide the information necessary for page 68, the Board is able to confirm bean appropriate period over which shareholders to assess the Companys that it has carried out a robust toassess the Groups viability, as position and performance, business assessment of the principal risks thisperiod: model and strategy.
facing the Company, including those which would threaten ourbusiness a is consistent with the planning Going concern model, future performance, solvency horizon over which the Directors The Groups business activities, or liquidity.
normally consider the future together with the factors likely to performance, capital and solvency affectits future development and Statement of review requirements of the business: and The risk management process performance, its exposure to risk b includes the refinancing of the andits management of these risks, detailed on pages 66-69 was in place seniorbank facilities and the for the year under review and up to details of its financial instruments delivery of the contracted new and derivative activities, and details the date of approval of this report.
ship the Groups two major of other financial and non-financial future financing transactions The Board has conducted a review liabilities are described throughout which both occur in the year of the effectiveness of Sagas risk the annual report principal risks ending January 2020. management and internal control and uncertainties pages 28-32: systems, including all material GroupChief Financial Officers In making this statement the Directors financial, operational and compliance review pages 38-49: accountability have considered the resilience of the controls, andconcluded that these pages 66-69: Audit Committee report Group, taking account of its current are acceptable.
pages 70-73: Risk Committee report position, the principal risks facing the pages 74-76 : and notes 17, 18 and 28. business in severe but plausible scenarios, and the effect of any The Group has access to sufficient mitigating actions.
The Directors have cash and other financial resources considered each of the Groups together with a large renewing income principal risks and uncertainties stream from insurance policies and detailed on pages 28-32 and the high-repeat purchase levels from potential impact of these risks on the customers of its other products, business model, future performance, together with long-term contracts with solvency and liquidity over the period.
a number of suppliers across different The Directors have made a key industries.
As a consequence, the assumption that it is reasonable to Directors believe that the Group is believethat debt funding to replace well placed to successfully manage the existing senior bank facilities its business risks.
when they mature will be available in all plausible market conditions.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Compliance Statement continued The Company applied the main principles of the Code as follows: A.
Effectiveness A1 The role of the Board B1 The composition of the Board B5 Information and support The Board met formally six times during The Nomination Committee is The Chairman, in conjunction with the year.
The schedule of matters responsible for regularly reviewing the theCompany Secretary, ensures that all reserved for the Board was reviewed on composition of the Board, considering Board members receive accurate and 24 September 2015.
There is a governance succession planning and evaluating skills, timely information and are kept informed structure throughout the Group, which knowledge and experience required in on allgovernance matters.
B6 Evaluation A2 Division of responsibilities B2 Appointments to the Board The Board conducted an annual There is a clear division of responsibilities The appointment of new Directors evaluation of its own performance and between the Chairman and Group Chief totheBoard is led by the Nomination that of its Committees and individual Executive Officer, as set out in the Committee and the process is such that Directors, as setout on page 63.
candidates are selected on merit, but with B7 Re-election of Directors regard for diversity.
Further details ofthe A3 The Chairman All Directors are subject to shareholder activities of the Nomination Committee can The Chairman sets the agendas for annual re-election.
be found onpages 64-65. meetings, manages the meeting timetable in conjunction with the Company B3 Commitment Secretary and facilitates open and On appointment, Directors are notified constructive dialogue during the meetings, of the time commitment expected from with particular focus on strategic issues.
External directorships, which may The Chairman promotes constructive impact on the existing time commitments relations between Executive and Nonof the Executive Directors, must be Executive Directors.
agreed beforehand with the Chairman.
A4 Non-Executive Directors B4 Development The Non-Executive Directors provide A tailored programme is set up when objective, rigorous and constructive aDirector joins the Board and this is challenge to management and meet ongoing to ensure that Directors skills regularly without the Executive Directors.
andknowledge are regularly updated The Senior Independent Non-Executive andrefreshed.
Director acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and led an evaluation on the Chairmans performance.
54 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders C1 Financial and business reporting D1 The level and components E1 Dialogue with shareholders The Strategic Report is set out on pages of remuneration The Board actively engages with 01-49 inclusive and this provides The Remuneration Committee is shareholders and values opportunities to information about the performance of responsible for setting levels of meet with them.
The Chairman has direct the Group, the business model, strategy remuneration which will attract, retain and contact with our major shareholders and and principal risks and uncertainties motivate Board members.
Remuneration ensures that the Board is kept informed relating to the Groups future prospects.
is structured to link it to both corporate of shareholder views and that all Directors and individual performance, so that are in touch with shareholder opinion.
C2 Risk management and managements interests are aligned internal control E2 Constructive use of general meetings with those of shareholders and the The Board sets out the Groups risk appetite The Board see the AGM as an important long-term success of the Company.
The effectiveness of the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
Groups risk management and internal D2 Procedure The Chairman and Chairs of each control systems is reviewed annually.
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are available for questions The activities of the Risk Committee, which Committee and Remuneration Policy can during the formal part of the business assists the Board with its responsibilities in be found in the Directors Remuneration and the Board and senior management relation to the management of risk, are Report on pages 78-100 inclusive.
are available after the meeting.
Details of how the Board engages with C3 Audit Committee and auditors shareholders can be found on page 77.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes, internal controls and the work undertaken by the external auditors.
The Chairmen of the Risk and Audit Committees are Board members and provide regular updates to the Board regarding Committee business.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 55
