CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Leadership It is important that our leadership team The Board of Directors the commencement, material supports the Saga Model, which helps The Board is responsible for, and expansion, diversification or deliver growth in our target markets.
provides, the overall direction for cessation of any of Sagas activities Our brand remains at the core of the management, debating what our Sagas regulatory, financial and Saga Model see page 13.
We priorities are and setting Sagas values material operational policies recognise that to provide differentiated and standards.
A fundamental part of changes relating to Sagas capital, products via unique routes to market this role is considering the balance of corporate, management or control with outstanding levels of service we interests between our shareholders, structures must empower our leaders.
our customers, our employees and the material capital or operating communities in which we work.
expenditures, outside preLance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive determined tolerances or beyond Officer, regularly hosts events with all We also provide oversight and supervision the delegated authorities senior management who either report of Sagas operations ensuring: major capital projects, corporate to him or his direct reports.
This group action or investment by Saga that will successful implementation of was instrumental in helping to develop have, or are likely to have, a financial the Saga Model and the Saga Way agreedplans cost greater than the amount set out sound planning and competent see page 23.
Culturally, the journey in the relevant contract approval is shared across all employees, with management processes from time to time a solid system of internal control clear and consistent messages set any material contract or joint venture at executive level, to filter throughout and risk management and material arrangements with adequate accounting and the Group.
otherrecords All Directors, members of the Group compliance with statutory and A review of our strategic objectives and Executive Committee and persons regulatory obligations.
financial performance takes place at each discharging managerial responsibilities Board Meeting.
Our Board receive training on an ongoing basis, to ensure they remain aware of regulatory The Board has a clearly articulated Details of the Board activities during the set of matters which are specifically and statutory responsibilities.
In addition, year can be found on page 59. all independent Non-Executive Directors reserved to it and this is reviewed annually the last review being 24 visit business areas so that they remain close to what Saga does, see how September 2015.
These include: strategy works in action and how the any decision likely to have a material discussion in the boardroom translates to impact on Saga from any perspective the front line of the business.
All Directors including, but not limited to, financial, have visited all business areas, including operational, strategic or reputational our call centres and cruise ships.
the strategic direction of the overall business, objectives, budgets and forecasts, levels of authority to approve expenditure, and any material changes to them 56 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Board attendance during the year The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year and then meets on an ad hoc basis as necessary.
During the year itmet formally on six occasions.
In addition, meetings were convened as necessary to approve strategic matters, and a strategy event was held in November where annual and five year plans for each of the businesses were presented to the Boardand discussed.
Attendance at Member Role Board meetings Andrew Goodsell Chairman Board governance, performance and shareholder engagement 6 6 Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer strategy and Group performance 6 6 1 Jonathan Hill Group Chief Financial Officer Group financial performance 4 4 2 Stuart Howard Retired Group Chief Financial Officer 3 3 Non-Executive Directors: James Arnell Private Equity Investor appointed 4 6 3 Pev Hooper Resigned Private Equity Investor appointed 5 5 3 Charles Sherwood Resigned Private Equity Investor appointed 5 5 Independent Non-Executive Directors: Philip Green 6 6 Ray King 5 6 Assess, challenge and monitor Executive Directors delivery 4 Bridget McIntyre of the strategy within risk and governance structures, financial n a controls and integrity of financial statements, and Board diversity Orna NiChionna 6 6 Gareth Williams 6 6 1 Jonathan Hill was appointed on 29 April 2015.
2 Stuart Howard retired at the AGM on 23 June 2015.
3 Pev Hooper and Charles Sherwood resigned on 2 December 2015.
4 Bridget McIntyre was appointed on 1 January 2016 and therefore did not attend any scheduled meetings during the year.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Leadership continued The Company Secretary attends all meetings as secretary to the Board.
In addition, we also invite other executives and directors from around the Group, and external advisers, to provide insight into key strategic areas.
The Board is responsible for: strategic direction of the Group considering the needs of our shareholders, employees leadership and management and customers setting values and standards the Saga Model ensuring compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations and the Saga Way see pages 13 and 23 respectively managing risk and control.
The Nomination The Audit Committee The Risk Committee The Remuneration Committee is is responsible for: is responsible for: Committee is responsible for: responsible for: monitoring the integrity advising on the Groups providing of financial statements risk appetite, tolerance setting and monitoring the recommendations on size, reviewing internal and and strategy Remuneration Policy for structure and composition external audit work plans overseeing and advising senior executives of the Board assessing the adequacy the Board on current risk recommending and succession planning and effectiveness of the exposures and future monitoring remuneration evaluating skills, Companys internal and risk strategy packages for Executive knowledge, external audits and reviewing risk assessment Directors, the Chairman independence and controls and management and senior management diversity of the Board reviewing Sagas annual procedures reviewing and identifying and nominating and half year financial monitoring principal administering employee candidates to fill Board statements and business risks share schemes vacancies accounting policies reviewing the adequacy setting key performance reviewing Board considering and making and effectiveness of risk indicators for the Annual performance and recommendations for the management systems Bonus Plan and long-term Chairman evaluation engagement of external and the compliance incentives results.
auditors function preparing an annual monitoring the scope of reviewing and monitoring remuneration report.
the annual audit and the management response to extent of the non-audit the Chief Risk Officers work undertaken by findings and external auditors recommendations.
ensuring whistleblowing The Remuneration Committee and anti-fraud systems Report is contained within the are in place within Saga.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78-100 and is incorporated into this Corporate See pages 64-65 for the See pages 70-73 for the Audit See pages 74-76 for the Risk Governance Statement by Nomination Committee report.
The Executive Committee reports directly to the Board via the Group  Officer and is responsible for: implementing strategy as determined by the Board day to day operational management executive management monitoring trading againststrategy managing risk and conduct.
58 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Board activities during the year 1.
Shareholder engagement Board structured to support growth Every Board decision involves Listening to our shareholders Discussion of capital structure and discussion on how it will affect Listening to our shareholders before, dividend policy.
ourcustomers during and after the AGM.
Review and formal approval of key Discussion regarding brand values.
Share issue in connection with the decisions including: Development of the Saga Way and Customer Offer one share awarded to acquisition of Bennetts the Saga Model.
Eligible Customers for every twenty held.
launch of Saga Investment Services Review of customer engagement how Introduction of Dividend Reinvestment decision to proceed with we innovate our communication, give our Plan to allow cash dividends to be turned building new ship customers the products they want and into shares.
Saga Healthcare pilot continue to provide excellent service.
launch of the motor panel Sale of Allied Healthcare Strategy offsite allows for detailed review of each businesss annual and long-term plans.
Shareholder 1. engagement Strategy Board activities 5.
Leadership and employees Governance to support our strategy Importance of creating one culture Reviewed our approach to risk appetite recognised 5.
Board composition appointment of Governance Leadership and Ensured our risk policy met Jonathan Hill and Bridget McIntyre.
and risk employees UK Corporate Governance Extensive work on creating a unified Code requirements.
Identified risks and referred to Full review of talent development and Risk Committee for consideration succession planning.
Employees participated in employee Regular business and regulatory engagement survey.
updates presented to the Board.
Share issue in connection with the Approved Audit Committees Employee Offer one share awarded to recommendation to re-appoint auditors Eligible Employees for every twenty held.
and sign off financial crime policies.
Free shares awarded to eligible employees Approved tax, environmental, health under Share Incentive Plan.
and safety and communication policies, matters reserved for the Board and Committees terms of reference.
Board and Committee evaluation exercise, reports, feedback and action plans.
Governance in action Our governance framework exists to support our strategy.
Acquisition of Bennetts & Expand insurance footprint Considered by Risk Introduction of motor panel and Audit Committees as appropriate Reviewed and discussed by Executive Committee Decision to build Grow our travel business a new cruise ship Strategic discussions and formal approval by Board Announcement to market Launch of Saga Personal finance Investment Services ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 59
