OUR RESOURCES ANDRELATIONSHIPS Our culture drives ourperformance ur values inform who we are Rebecca Johncock, Cruise Adviser, and how we work they arebrought to life every Saga Holidays dayby our people.
There area number of key assets, O beyond the financial, which are vital to the functioning of our business and the delivery of our strategy.
Brand 65 years ago our founder, Sidney fide Haan, identified that retired people had different travel needs.
Ever since, Saga has continued tofocus on understanding their wants and needs.
We have used this insight to create a range of high-quality products and services, which have delivered sustained growth.
This is aided by thehigh regard and warmth felt for theSaga brand.
Saga is now one of the UKs most recognised and trusted consumer brandsand is synonymous with the over 50s market.
We are known for quality products and services, and excellence incustomer service.
We achieve high levels of repeat business and acquire newcustomers without needing to rely heavily on costly third party advertising.
Our focus on a personal, more direct approach is appreciated by our customers, as is the fact that people can deal with us in the way that suits them.
22 Strategic Report People Sagas success relies upon having highlyengaged employees committed todelivering exceptional service to ourcustomers.
Building exceptional engagement requires a positive highperforming culture and at Saga we see this as a key priority of leadership.
In2015 we were delighted to see a significant improvement in our employee engagement levels which are now over 80%, above the UK norm, and we have plans to improve this further.
Wemade big strides forward in 2015 in building a comprehensive employee communication strategy.
We have a suite of two-way communication Julie Birchmore, Holiday Sales Adviser, Saga Hoidays forums to ensure we are really listening to the views and opinions of our people on how we can continue to improve Saga for staff and customers.
We also made significant improvements to our employee our business and supporting each Diversity and having an employee benefits with an issue of free shares to all other todoour best work.
Building this basethat brings different perspectives, of our people in July 2015 to enable them high-performance and high-support backgrounds and ways of thinking is very to share in our success and also to align culture is akey part of every leaders important to our business and we aim to them with our continued growth and responsibility at Saga.
make this easier to deliver by providing profitability.
We also launched a new flexible working.
We help people to Share Incentive Plan and we are delighted We continue to invest in our leadership growthrough biannual performance with participation levels.
Strong alignment and management capability.
In 2015 development reviews and career planning of our employees with our business we improved our approach to reviewing discussions the latter have just been success is really important to us.
talent at all levels of our business.
We have introduced this year.
Our open and clear plans in every team to accelerate supportive culture also encourages In 2015 we also launched the Saga development and allow people to fulfil people to speak up if they have issues Way, which crystallises the culture we their potential.
We are also focused that they want to raise, and we support want at Saga with a strong emphasis on enabling people to develop across this with whistleblowing arrangements on exceptional customer care and giving different parts of our Group, because that are regularly communicated.
ourpeople a strong voice in ensuring weknow that this diversity of experience thatwe consistently deliver.
Our culture is great for our people and our customers.
Our goal is to be the best employer is focused on allowing people to be The Saga Way Academy continues to intheSouth East and beyond and we brave, challenging ourselves to deliver deliver high-quality training, linked to our have strong leadership commitment the bestcustomer service throughout business plans, for all of our employees.
witha clear plan to deliver this.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 23 OUR RESOURCES Gender diversity January 2016 ANDRELATIONSHIPS Male Female CONTINUED Total Actual % Actual % 1 Board 7 78% 2 22% 9 2 Senior managers 95 65% 51 35% 146 3 Employees 1,980 44% 2,499 56% 4,479 1 Directors of the Company including executive and non-executive.
2 All divisional Board Directors, and employees with strategic input and influence.
3 All Saga employees including Directors and senior managers.
Human rights Community and social Saga conducts business in an ethical Saga is a major employer in Thanet, and transparent way.
Policies to support Folkestone, Hastings and Redhill.
recognised human rights principles Werecognise our responsibilities to include those on non-discrimination, thecommunities from which we draw health and safety and environmental potential recruits and also aim to be issues.
Saga has a zero tolerance agood neighbour to local residents.
approach to bribery and corruption.
We have made donations to Safer Health and safety Kent, a local crime prevention charity, Saga is committed to protecting the and provided raffle prizes for local health, safety and welfare of employees, community groups.
The Saga Pavilion is customers and anyone affected by used by local organisations, which this our operations.
We have a positive year have included the Childrens Trust, John Freeman, Sales Adviser, health and safety culture and seek the MS Society, orchestral and choral Retirement Villages to continuously improve health and societies and sports associations.
the weekend the Enbrook Park HQ carpark is open for those visiting We meet our obligations through the localshops, and the farmers market development and implementation of uses the site twice a month.
Beyond this, everyone in Saga has a The grounds and woods at our sites are personal responsibility for health and well maintained and open to the public.
safety and for performing the activities A new public footpath has been created they undertake in a safe manner through Enbrook Park and a local Scout and this is regularly communicated.
group has established various habitats to encourage wildlife.
Saga has a strong social commentary and campaigning aspect to its brand reflecting and giving voice to the concerns of the nations over 50s.
This isachieved through a mix of published research, public policy campaigns and news commentary.
This builds a reputation for being an insightful and trusted voice with the media and policy makers for the concerns of those approaching or in retirement.
During the 2015 General Election, all party leaders were interviewed in Saga Magazine and the Prime Minister launched his manifesto for older peopleat an event for Saga customersat ourHastings office.
The Saga Respite for Carers Trust provides holidays for family carers, and the Saga Charitable Trust, which celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2015, supports projects in countries that our holiday customers visit.
Keely Berwick, Holiday Sales Adviser, Saga Holidays 24 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Strategic Report Our people and customers also donated significant sums towards helping victims of the Nepal Earthquake in April 2015 and Saga Charitable Trust provided matching funding.
A 50,000 donation to the Gurkha Welfare Trust was made by Saga Charitable Trust at last years AGM.
As one of the inaugural signatories ofthe Ministry of Defences Corporate Covenant, Saga has shown a strong commitment to staff who are in the reserve forces and for service families.
We also support local air, sea and armycadets and hold an Annual ArmedForces Day staff BBQ that has raisedmoney for: the Royal British Legion: the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association: and Help forHeroes.
Our contact centres were used for bothComic Relief and Children in Need which saw teams from around the Company manning the phones This database now contains highly Data security and the threat of to take donations.
relevant data for 11.2m people and 9.1m cybercrime are key issues and these households, covering over 50% of over arecovered in the Principal Risks and Supplier partnerships 50s households and over 60% of over Uncertainties section on pages 28-32.
These relationships are fundamental 50s ABC1 households inthe UK.
We work very Ships closely with our suppliers to deliver the Saga has a consistent focus on Our ships are subject to an ongoing products and services to the standard datacollection and we are constantly programme of refurbishment and refits our customers expect.
re-confirming the data we gather toensure a continued safe and efficient through over 128m interactions per year.
operation and an environment that meets Once we have designed and tested By selling products and services directly our customers exacting standards and products and services, we decide how to customers, we capture information at expectations.
The cruise experience is best to source them for our customers every point of contact and build a view the embodiment of Sagas focus on the in-house or from a third party.
of the customer and changes in needs of our customers and gives us an behaviour over time.
opportunity to connect with customers in We are not a commission-based a way that none of our financial services business.
We design bespoke products Our data analysts are then able competitors can hope to achieve.
ourselves then look for the best possible toperform sophisticated analysis partners to supply them, comparing suchascustomer segmentation and Environment them for service and value.
Over time we propensity modelling, resulting in The Group is sensitive to its can move if more appropriate, or better, targeted marketing.
This allows us to environmental impact and aims to partners become available.
Our partners introduce appropriate products and operate in a manner that minimises work with us in this way because it is a services to customers in a highly negative impact, such as waste sent mutually advantageous relationship efficient manner with relatively low tolandfill, and invests in activities they benefit from our brand, customer customer acquisition costs.
Importantly, whichhave a positive impact on the knowledge and access to an attractive our database is exclusive to us: we do environment, such as improved energy target market.
Saga, and its customers, not share the information with third efficiency.
We strive for continuous benefit from our partners expertise and parties for marketing purposes.
improvement of our operations to reduce resources.
This also means that we any potential impact our business may maintain responsibility for delivery and Our main IT systems are developed, have on the environment.
Saga promotes continue to own the relationship with our supported and maintained in-house, green travel options and has a network customers, ensuring we can manage the asmany of the systems are a key of Saga minibuses that take people to customer experience at all times.
source of our competitive advantage.
and from its sites, and we also promote a cycle to work scheme.
Database and technology Most of our operating systems are Our multiple customer interactions adapted to each business segment, across a broad range of products soapplication support is administered andservices over many years have by decentralised segment-specific enabled us to develop a sophisticated support functions.
In contrast, most of proprietary Group Marketing Database.
our IT infrastructure, such as telephony switches, data networks and server rooms, are maintained by centralised support functions.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 25 OUR RESOURCES Greenhouse gas emissions report ANDRELATIONSHIPS This section has been prepared as per Section 7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
CONTINUED During the the year ending 31 January 2016, the Group emitted a total of 102,261 tCO e from fuel combustion Scope 1 direct and electricity purchased for our own 2 use Scope 2 indirect.
This is equivalent to 106.2 tCO e per m revenue.
We 2 voluntarily report Scope 3 emissions arising from business travel, which contribute 1,637 tCO e. 2 The table below shows our greenhouse gas GHG emissions for the year ended 31 January 2016.
Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO or carbon 2 dioxide equivalent tCO e 2 2015 16 2014 15 Emissions source Emissions Emissions Scope 1 96,026 tCO e 104,734 tCO e 2 2 Scope 2 location-based 6,235 tCO e 7,038 tCO e 2 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 102,261 tCO e 111,772 tCO e 2 2 tCO e per m revenue 106.2 124.1 2 Scope 2 market-based 1,078 tCO n a 2 Scope 3 1,637 tCO e 1,694 tCO e 2 2 Employee FTE Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK and emissions from purchased electricity calculated using the market-based approach using supplier-specific mission factors are reported in tCO2 rather than tCO2e due to the availability of emission factors.
Total location-based emissions 2015 16 Methodology Scope 1: Natural gas combustion 1.
Scope 1 92% We quantify and report our within boilers, marine fuel 2.
Scope 2 6% organisational greenhouse gas combustion within ships, road fuel 3.
Scope 3 2% emissions in alignment with the GHG combustion within vehicles, fuel Protocol, which includes alignment with combustion within non-road mobile 3 1 the new Scope 2 Guidance.
machinery and fugitive refrigerants 2 2% from air-conditioning equipment 6% The UK Government 2015 Conversion Scope 2: Purchased electricity Factors for Company Reporting have consumption for our own use been utilised in order to calculate Scope Scope 3: Business travel from 1, Scope 2 Location-based and Scope greyfleet 3 emissions from corresponding activity data.
Assumptions and estimations During the year Bennetts was Reporting boundaries acquired and Allied Healthcare was 92% and limitations sold.
Emissions have been calculated We consolidate our organisational for these entities pro rata.
boundary according to the operational control approach and have adopted a In some cases, where data is missing, materiality threshold of 5% for GHG values have been estimated by reporting purposes.
Due to poor data extrapolation of available data from accuracy and a lack of operational thereporting period or data from 2014 control, emissions from non-owned as a proxy.
buildings fall outside of the No data was available for Allied organisational boundary and are reasonably estimated to fall below the Healthcares business travel, so an estimate has been calculated from 5% materiality threshold.
Similarly, emissions from diesel combustion the previous years data.
Where the fuel type information was within building generators are reasonably estimated to be less than not available, it has been assumed tobe diesel for the purpose of 5% of our total footprint and have not been included in our disclosure.
The GHG sources that constitute our operational boundary for the 2015-16 reporting period are: 26 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Strategic Report Scope 2 emissions by methodolgy Dual reporting of Scope 2 report last year.
In 2015, Saga was emissions short-listed by the Carbon Disclosure The new Scope 2 Guidance in the GHG Project CDP in the category of Best Protocol requires that we quantify and first time responder and we aim to 7000 6,235 tCO e 2 report Scope 2 emissions from further improve our score.
6000 purchased electricity consumption for our own use using two different We have taken steps to improve our 5000 energy and carbon performance: as methodologies: the location-based method, using average emissions part of compliance with the UK Energy 4000 Savings Opportunities Scheme ESOS, factors for the country in which the 3000 reported operations take place, and the we have identified a number of measures to further reduce energy use market-based method, which uses the 2000 1,078 actual emissions factors of the energy in buildings and ships in particular and tCO e 2 are in the process of implementing the procured.
This is known as dual 1000 reporting.
Please see below for further next steps to realise these savings.
LocationMarketTotal emissions for the year ending based based The graph below shows the Groups 31 January 2016 have reduced 2015-2016 2015-2016 compared with the year ending Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity, which have been calculated 31 January 2015 by approximately 8%.
This is largely due to an 8% reduction using the two different methodologies.
in the emissions associated with Marine Saga purchases electricity for the Fuel, which contribute over 87% of majority of their buildings from a 100% Sagas Scope 1, 2 & 3 total emissions.
renewable supply from Haven Power.
Within the two cruise ships that we The remainder of the UK electricity is own and operate, Saga have been supplied by SSE which has a cleaner implementing a number of fuel efficiency fuel mix than the UK average.
The dual measures, these include designing reporting of our emissions in this way itineraries at lower speeds, reducing demonstrates the impact that selecting the use of stabilisers, and replacing these suppliers has on our greenhouse lightbulbs with LEDs.
gas emissions, and that we are making efforts to reduce our climate impact There has also been an annual reduction in building energy through the purchase of electricity generated from cleaner sources.
consumption, which can partly be attributed to the sale of Allied Improving performance Healthcare, as well as a reduction We have continued to monitor and in the use of road fuel.
measure our carbon impact in 2015-16 following our first annual emissions ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 27
