CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Accountability Risk management and internal control Top down: Saga plc Board Group risk policy and strategy Group risk appetite Principal risk oversight Group compliance oversight Group CEO Group Risk Committee Business board Business Audit, Business Executive Risk and Compliance Committee Bottom up: Committee Business risk appetite definition and policy Identification, assessment and mitigation of business Business Risk specific risks Committee Upward reporting of key residual risks Board assessment of risk Systems have been in place for the activities and practices and internal management and internal control year under review and up to the date control systems in the Group.
Specific The Board has ultimate responsibility for of approval of the annual report details regarding the Risk and Audit the Groups risk management and internal and accounts.
Committees involvement in the control, including setting of risk appetite.
Such systems are regularly reviewed development and review of risk In accordance with section C 2.3 of the by the Board.
management and internal control UK Corporate Governance Code the The systems accord with the FRC systems are provided in the Risk and Board is responsible for reviewing the guidance on risk management, Audit Committee reports on pages effectiveness of risk management and internal control and related financial 74-76 and 70-73 respectively.
control systems, specifically that: and business reporting.
As a result of their consideration and There is an ongoing process for During 2015 the Board has directly, or contribution to risk management and identifying, evaluating and managing through delegated authority to the Risk internal control activities, the Board the principal risks faced by the and Audit Committees, overseen and is satisfied that the risk management Company.
reviewed the development and andinternal control systems in place performance of risk management remain effective.
66 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Regulator External Audit Sagas three lines of defence risk governance model The three lines of defence work asfollows: 1st line of defence Risk taking by Governing body Board Audit Committee management, in line with agreed risk appetite, risk policies and procedures.
Various governance forums in each business review all risk exposures Senior management and risk mitigation activities on a regular basis, supported by the 2nd line of defence oversight functions.
1st line of 2nd line of 3rd line of Consideration of business risks is defence defence defence a standing agenda item at each executive meeting within the Group.
Financial control Management 2nd line of defence Independent Security controls oversight provided by the various Internal Risk management control functions, including risk, Audit Internal control Compliance compliance and health and safety.
measures Specific duties include advice on Health and safety Group and business risk appetites, independent review of both the rating of key risks, and approach and Group risk management cycle adequacy of business risk management strategies.
The 2nd line of defence is also responsible for reporting on the Group strategy management of principal risks and uncertainties to the Risk Committee Business-specic Group risk appetite andBoard.
risk appetites Business-specic Group risk policy 3rd line of defence Independent risk policies assurance on the operation and effectiveness of internal control throughout Risk assessment the Group, including consideration of the Independent policies effectiveness of the risk management assurance process.
The 3rd line of defence reports to the Board by way of the Audit Committee.
Ongoing monitoring Risk review Sagas spread and variety of business operations require risk and internal control issues to be considered at both specialist business level and aggregated Risk oversight Group level.
Risk and internal control oversight is provided at all Committees and key concerns are raised to the Audit and Risk Committees and ultimately to the Board if required.
The financial crime, data and information security committee provides an additional forum to consider specialist risks arising in these areas.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Accountability continued Risk management cycle highly specialist nature of their risks.
Risk oversight The Group risk management cycle is an Each business then creates appropriate Independent oversight of the risk iterative cycle of activities, comprising controls to manage such risks.
Risks management process, including key the following: are rated on both an inherent and a risks and their associated management, residual basis and are rated on a red, incidents and compliance, is provided Identification of risk appetite amber, yellow and green scale.
by the Chief Risk Officer and the risk Saga defines risk appetite as the team, the compliance team, the Risk amount and sources of risk which we Risk assessments are reviewed Committee and, ultimately, the Board.
are willing to accept in pursuit of our atbusiness risk committees and Risk monitoring objectives.
Group risk appetite is theprincipal risks are subject All risk registers are independently derived from our strategic objectives toindependent review by the reviewed by the risk team at least and is used as a measure against which RiskCommittee.
quarterly to test for completeness of risk all of our current and proposed activities and control capture, effective testing of are tested.
Group risk appetites and Risk registers have been created key control measures, and recording tolerances are further defined within the foreach business to capture their key and reporting of any exceptions and Principal risks and uncertainties section risks, associated controls and incidents.
These registers are typically sub-divided by function or business area.
The Risk information Business risk appetites are separately highest rated residual risks in terms All risk data, including risks, controls, crafted, complementary to Group of impact and probability for each control tests and incidents, is captured appetites but customised to reflect the business are aggregated at Group level in an internet-enabled risk portal.
This specific needs and characteristics of to produce a list of principal risks and portal produces risk reports for all each business.
Business risk appetites uncertainties, assessed at residual level governance meetings.
may be different to Group appetites but against Group risk appetite.
Independent process assurance All business CEOs certified compliance Sagas internal audit function Group and business risk appetites are with the risk management framework Internal Audit provides independent reviewed at least annually to ensure that at the year end.
assurance of the effectiveness of the they are aligned with any changes in risk management procedures at both strategy or specific strategic initiatives.
Risk review Group and business levels.
Reports on key risks and controls, Risk policies andincidents, are presented to each Process feedback Saga has a Group risk policy, defining governance forum meeting specified Outputs from the risk management our risk management strategy, in the Committee structure, flow of cycle are fed back to the Risk framework, governance structures, and risk, compliance and internal control Committee to assist with necessary detailed assessment and mitigation information chart on page 66.
In revision of the Group risk management processes.
Beneath this Group addition, checks against control policy and framework.
They may also document, individual business policies effectiveness, and any exceptions or be used to inform future iterations of are created, customised to reflect overdue actions are also considered.
specific business characteristics but Each of these governance meetings still consistent with the overall risk isattended by key 1st and 2nd line of A statement confirming that the Board management framework.
All risk defence managers and the actions are is able to confirm that they have carried policies are reviewed at least annually minuted and followed up at the next out a robust assessment of risks is and approved at business or Group meeting.
Significant control weaknesses contained on page 53. boards as appropriate.
or failures are escalated to the individual business board in question or, if of Internal control Risk assessment and risk registers sufficient scale and seriousness, to Internal Audit acts as the 3rd line of All Saga businesses assess each risk the Risk Committee.
Each Group risk defence within Sagas three lines of for likelihood and impact.
Most use a committee also considers cross-Group defence risk management framework.
common risk assessment matrix, risks and incidents to ensure the risk of The objective of Internal Audit is to help although several have a customised contagion is minimised.
protect the assets, reputation and impact scale to reflect their size or the sustainability of the organisation by 68 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance providing independent, reliable, valued a monthly basis through to the end of might threaten the Groups ongoing and timely assurance to the Board and the financial year.
These PRUs are given in the executive management.
To preserve Strategic Report on pages 28-32.
All of Regular weekly and monthly reporting the independence of Internal Audit, the PRUs have been considered and cycles allow management to assess the Head of Internal Audits primary severe but plausible outcomes for each performance, and identify risks and reporting line is to the Chairman of the have been identified.
The financial opportunities at the earliest opportunity.
Audit Committee, and the Internal Audit impact in terms of both profit and cash Trading performance is formally reviewed team is prohibited from performing of each outcome has been quantified on a weekly basis by the management operational duties for the business.
and a probability of occurrence of the trading subsidiaries, and monthly assigned to it.
Assessments of potential by the management of the Group.
All activities of the Group fall within the financial impact were derived from both Performance is reported to the Board scope of Internal Audits remit and there internal calculation and examples of at each Board meeting.
Performance are no restrictions on the scope of similar incidents in the public domain.
is assessed against budget and against Internal Audits work.
Internal Audit the latest forecast expectations.
The three largest sensitivities in terms fulfils its role and responsibilities by offinancial impact were identified as delivering the annual, risk-based audit The Group has an established andwellthefollowing: plan.
Each audit within the plan understood management structure with provides an opinion on the control documented levels for the authorisation 1.
A failure to deliver the expected environment and details of issues found.
of business transactions and clear bank cumulative effect of operational Internal Audit works with the businesses mandates to control the approval of efficiency projects in Saga to agree remedial actions necessary to payments.
Control of the Groups cash ServicesLimited improve the control environment, and resources is operated by a centralised 2.
A severe one-off data breach these are tracked to completion.
Impact on AICLs investment portfoliodue to default of the The Head of Internal Audit submits Internal management reporting and largestcredit institution.
reports to, and or attends, board and external statutory reporting timetables audit committee meetings for the and delivery requirements are well Three scenarios were then modelled subsidiary Saga businesses, as well established and documented.
Control forthe assessment period: the three as the Audit Committee meetings.
ofthese is maintained centrally and largest sensitivities in terms of financial communicated regularly.
impact as if each were certain to occur Financial reporting independently: the expected financial The Group maintains a control The Group maintains computer systems impact for all sensitivities combined environment that is regularly reviewed to record and consolidate all of its drawing on the assigned probability by the Board.
The principal elements financial transactions.
These ledger foreach one: and a reverse stress ofthe control environment include systems are used to produce the testconsidering what PRU, or comprehensive management and information for the monthly management combination of PRUs might lead financial reporting systems and accounts, and for the annual statutory tobreach of performance and cash processes, defined operating controls financial statements.
and authorisation limits, regular Board subsidiaries within the Group prepare meetings, clear subsidiary board and their accounts under Financial The outcome of this modelling operating structures, and an Internal Reporting Standard FRS 101. confirmed that none of the top three Audit function.
PRUs would compromise the Groups The accounts production process viability either in isolation or in Internal control and risk management ensures that there is a clear audit trail combination.
The reverse stress test systems relating to the financial from the output of the Groups financial demonstrated that the likelihood of one reporting process and the process for reporting systems, through the or any combination of PRUs causing us preparing consolidated accounts ensure conversion and consolidation processes, to breach performance and insolvency the accuracy and timeliness of internal to the Groups financial statements.
Creation of the viability statement As set out in the Audit Committee The Group undertakes an annual An assessment period of five years report on pages 70-73, the Directors strategy process which updates the wasselected.
This is consistent have reviewed and discussed the plan for the next five years, and withourlong-term financial planning rationale and conclusions of produces a detailed budget for the horizon and importantly it embraces managements viability testing.
Throughout each theconstruction of our new cruise ship The Directors viability statement year, detailed reforecasts are performed which will become operational in 2019. is contained on page 53. by each area of the Group each month and are consolidated to provide an Our list of principal risks and Statement of review updated view of expected performance uncertainties PRUs derived from The Boards statement of review for the current year.
Each reforecast ourrobust review of risks was reviewed oftheeffectiveness of Sagas risk covers the income statement, cash flow with risk owners, Group Finance and management and internal control and balance sheet positions phased on Group Risk to consider which risks systems is contained on page 53.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 69
