CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Risk Committee Report Orna NiChionna Attendance Reviewing the Groups capability Chairman, The Committee met four times during toidentify and manage new risk Risk Committee the year with members attending as types and ensuring that a supportive shown below.
risk management culture is embedded and maintained Member Attendance throughout the Group in conjunction with the Audit and Orna NiChionna Chairman 4 4 Remuneration Committees.
Philip Green 4 4 Where appropriate, agreeing with the Remuneration Committee how Ray King 3 4 Dear Shareholder, risk should be recognised when In June 2015 I took over from Ray King setting performance objectives for Gareth Williams 4 4 as Chairman of the Risk Committee executive remuneration.
and am pleased to present a summary Reviewing reports on any material Bridget McIntyre was appointed as of our work during the financial year breaches of risk limits and the aCommittee member with effect from to January 2016 to drive the further adequacy of proposed action.
1January 2016 so did not attend any development of the Groups risk Reviewing reports on the meetings during the financial year.
This year we effectiveness of risk management focused on both enhancing our risk operations.
The Company Secretary acts as appetite statements and providing Reviewing and monitoring secretary to the Committee and attends further granularity in our assessment managements responsiveness to all meetings.
The Group Chief Executive ofprincipal risks, and also looked at thefindings and recommendations Officer, Group Chief Financial Officer, each of the various Group businesses ofthe CRO.
CRO and Head ofInternal Audit attend inisolation, to understand and Reviewing Group compliance by invitation.
During the year the challenge their key risks, controls performance, assessing the Committee and Chairman held private andmitigations.
This consideration adequacy and effectiveness of the meetings with the CRO.
ofrisk at both business and Group various compliance functions and level has provided us with the giving particular consideration to assurance that principal risks to Main responsibilities and any breaches and or required allocation of time spent strategy have been identified and notifications to compliance arebeing managed appropriately.
onmatters: authorities and how these have beenrectified.
Advising the Board on the Groups In depth review of business areas.
overall risk appetite, tolerance Role of the Committee andstrategy.
Our role is to monitor the Groups risk Considering and recommending to and compliance management the Board the nature and extent of procedures described on pages 66-69 the principal risks the Group is and review principal business risks and willing to take in achieving strategic compliance matters regularly on behalf objectives.
We seek to consider our Keeping under review the Groups risks on an individual and aggregated overall risk assessment processes basis across our businesses.
that inform the Boards decision making, ensuring both qualitative All Committee members are and quantitative metrics are used, independent Non-Executive Directors.
and reviewing these measures regularly.
Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems.
74 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance We recognise the need to continually reasonable and not absolute assurance define risk appetites and tolerances.
against material misstatement or loss.
4 Anevaluation of internal projects, Management and reporting activities, uncertainties and emerging risks concluded that the risk associated At each meeting, we considered a 22% detailed risk report.
This included a with the travel landscape needed to 1 be added to the list ofprincipal risks.
summary of each businesss management monitoring.
We worked Risk appetite and tolerance thresholds 50% were reviewed to reflect individual with the CRO to facilitate each business 17% area considering their strategies in the probabilities over time more closely and to align these with the strategic context of their risk framework to ensure that all forward-looking risks had been timeframe.
The Group risk policy was changed to 3 All business CEOs certified compliance reflect the revised thresholds, likelihood and impact of incidents and we reviewed with the risk management framework at Key: the year end.
and approved this before it was signed 1.
Risk policy, appetite and strategy off by the Board in December 2015.
Risk reports Review of incidents, particularly Therevised policy was subsequently 3.
Compliance relating to significant control circulated to all directors and board 4. Business reviews failures or weaknesses attendees of all subsidiary companies Incidents are included in the risk and made available to all staff via reports.
We reviewed and discussed theintranet.
Our terms of reference these in order to identify causes, Our terms of reference were reviewed An Internal Audit review on the necessary action, lessons learned a by the Committee and subsequently nd monitoring requirements.
effectiveness of therisk management approved by the Board on 24 September framework took place in October 2015.
These explain our role and the Compliance This concluded that there is a wellauthority delegated to us by the Board At each meeting, we review the status of established risk framework, with risk and are available on the Saga website the Group compliance monitoring plan appetite clearly defined within risk policies at http: corporate.
co. uk for the regulated businesses in financial and specific toeach business area.
We Effective communication channels are governance and from the Company considered how risk would play a part in inplace and this is supplemented by Secretary at the registered office.
projects being considered, so that input comprehensive and consistent in terms of risk appetite, policy and Boardreports.
What we have done during the year governance was received when it was Risk strategy, policy and appetite needed.
The new corporate governance We have reviewed and approved the We reviewed risk management description of principal risks and the requirements were discussed.
structures to ensure these met the explanation as to how these are needs of each business and fitted Review of individual businesses managed or mitigated is contained withthe risk policy, appetite and Each of our meetings includes a within this report.
presentation from one or two of the pages 28-32 for a summary of business CEOs and key functional We carried out a robust assessment of managers todiscuss in detail the risk principal risks the principal risks facing the Group, pages 66-69 for further information and compliance issues in their business, including those that would threaten our ona rotational basis and prioritised onour risk management processes.
business model, future performance, according to risk ratings in the Groups solvency or liquidity.
These are designed to manage rather risk register.
than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Risk Committee Report continued The actions we took within reviews of Group insurance arrangements: identifying key risks and establishing individual businesses during the year were: Considered the insurance good reporting and relationships.
A fully programme for the Group including externally facilitated review will take Saga Services Direct Choice cost, management of brokers and placethis year.
regulated business : advisers and summary of cover.
Considered the risk and assurance Actions for 2016 17 Discussed specialist cover, for framework and approach to example marine insurance cover, Looking ahead, we will remain focused incident management all in the on the risk processes within the which is arranged at the highest context of doing what is right for possible level with the lowest business, with particular focus on: our customers.
analysing our corporate strategy, Reviewed the reporting structure, Considered how insurance risk noting that an audit, risk, regulation scenario stress testing and cost was managed and discussed implications when considering and compliance committee exists.
whether business decisions were Looked at the impact on risk riskstrategy challenged at renewal stage.
measuring the effectiveness of the caused by the creation of the motor panel.
risk management approach agreeing how risks approaching our Discussed a report prepared by IT: Milliman, consulting actuaries, who Discussed our approach to the appetite limit will be monitored and reported had undertaken a review of the risk riskmanagement of threat of management framework, held a cybercrime, cyber security and the role of the Committee when considering major investment workshop with key members of cyber strategy.
staff and recommended five Considered threats, current decisions in new products orservices strategic risks and associated projects, staff training and the scenarios, which were checked strategic roadmap.
reviewing lessons learned from project implementation against risk registers.
Talked about how data Concluded that there were no communications are monitored.
continuing to record and monitor ITrisks serious incidents to consider.
Took steps to benchmark our performance against peers.
working with the Remuneration Committee to link behavioural risk Considered the role of the AICL: Information Security Forum.
to personal objectives and strategy.
Assessed the risk governance structure.
Considered the impact of the Since the year end, we have received introduction of the motor panel.
presentations from AICL and regarding Discussed compliance and reporting our insurance renewal, insurance requirements for Solvency II.
Orna NiChionna Chairman, Risk Committee Shipping: Effectiveness of the Looked at principal risks, incident RiskCommittee and accident statistics and action Evaluation taken to reduce the risk via the An evaluation of the Committees beyond compliance programme.
effectiveness took place during the year, which is aligned to the top as part of the Board effectiveness review five risks.
This was an Noted that the shipping risk internal review with the support of committee meets quarterly and Independent Audit Limited.
The ischaired by an independent Committee received very positive non-executive director who is feedback from Committee members experienced in shipping.
andattendees and it was acknowledged that good progress had been made in 76 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016
