GOVERNANCE Audit committee report | Audit committee report The work of the committee is far-ranging.
Without attempting to summarise it here, I would draw attention to the following: In considering the integrity of financial reporting, we considered three particularly signi cant areas of judgement in detail: the carrying value of goodwill and investments in associates, provisioning for uncertain tax positions, and items excluded from adjusted earnings.
In addition to the regular financial reporting of the company, we focused on other financial information issued in relation to the recommended offer for the company.
In risk management and internal controls, we noted the additional emphasis on these matters in the recently revised UK Corporate Governance Code and put additional focus on the processes that support the boards assessment of risk, the mitigating controls, and the effectiveness of their operation.
We also focused among other matters on IT network and data security, anti-bribery and corruption policies and compliance, fraud, whistleblowing arrangements, and Mark Armour the cost and ef ciency programme, and we reviewed the groups Chairman of the audit committee tax policies.
In relation to the external audit, the committee has agreed with our The audit committee assists the board in ful lling its oversight external auditors to continue the tenure of the lead audit partner responsibilities regarding in particular the companys financial for the current financial year ending 31 March 2017, which is one and corporate reporting, risk management and internal controls, year beyond the normal five year rotation period, in view of the and the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors.
recommended offer for the company, the signi cant deal-related activity and additional workloads and pressures on management.
This report sets out how it has discharged its responsibilities during This continuity, the committee believes, will best serve audit quality the year and, in relation to the financial statements, the signi cant and reduce risk.
Also in view of the recommended offer, the issues it considered and how these were addressed.
The board is committee will not now hold the audit tender that was planned for required to ensure that the annual report is fair, balanced and later this year for appointment for the financial year commencing understandable, and the audit committee assists the board by 1April 2017. considering this.
Following recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board has included in the annual report a statement on the groups longer-term viability, and the committee has supported the board by considering assumptions and sensitivities in relation to it.
Responsibilities At the request of the board, the committee considers whether the The committees main role and responsibilities are to assist the board annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether it in ful lling its responsibilities regarding: provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
the integrity of SABMillers interim and full year financial statements Thecommittee has also supported the board by considering and reporting, including the appropriateness and consistent assumptions and sensitivities in relation to the boards statement application of accounting policies, the adequacy of related in the annual report on the groups longer-term viability.
disclosures, and compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements: The committee reports to the board on its activities, identifying any risk management and internal controls, related compliance activities matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement and reporting, and the effectiveness of the internal audit function is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
and whistleblowing arrangements: and the scope, resources, performance and effectiveness of the Committee members, their relevant financial experience and the external auditors, including monitoring their independence attendance record are set out in the corporate governance report and objectivity.
The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available on our website, www.
70 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E Committee meetings Financial and corporate reporting The committee meets four times in the year.
Meetings are attended In discharging its responsibilities in relation to the integrity of the by the committee members and typically, by invitation, the Chairman, interim and full year financial statements and reporting, before their Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer, senior members of the group submission to the board for approval, the committee reviewed finance team, General Counsel, Group Company Secretary, and Chief reports from management and from the external auditors, and Internal Auditor.
Other non-executive directors have a standing discussed with them: invitation to attend as observers.
Other members of management are invited to attend certain meetings in order to provide the committee the appropriateness and consistency of application of the with greater insight into speci c issues and developments.
The audit accounting policies, their compliance with applicable accounting partners and senior members of the group audit team from our standards, and the implementation of changes in international external auditors, PwC, attend each meeting.
financial reporting standards: the critical accounting judgements and estimations made in the The committee receives and discusses regular written and oral reports preparation of the financial statements and those matters where from the Chief Financial Of cer, the Chief Internal Auditor, the General there have been substantive discussions between management Counsel, and the external auditors relating to matters falling within the and the external auditors: committees terms of reference.
Reports are also received from time to the contingent liabilities and judgements made in respect of time by other members of management and other external assurance signi cant legal matters, on which the committee receives regular providers in relation to speci c topics addressed by the committee.
reports from the General Counsel: the adequacy and clarity of reporting disclosures and compliance The committee meets separately at least twice each year with the with applicable financial and other reporting requirements, including external auditors without management present and likewise at least the treatment of exceptional and other items excluded from annually with the Chief Internal Auditor.
The committee chairman has adjusted earnings used by management as an additional separate meetings at least four times a year with the Chief Financial performance measure: Of cer, the Chief Internal Auditor, and with the external auditors.
He the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting also meets separately with the General Counsel, and with the Group and the newly required statement on the groups longer-term Company Secretary.
The Chief Internal Auditor, the external auditors, viability, with reference to budgeted and projected future cash ows, the General Counsel, and the Group Company Secretary have direct debt maturities, cash resources and committed nancing facilities, access to the committee, primarily through the chairman, on any key credit ratios and sensitivity analyses: and matter that they regard as relevant to the ful lment of the committees whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced responsibilities.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, New members of the committee are briefed on matters relevant business model and strategy.
to the responsibilities of the committee and meet a range of finance management as part of their induction.
Training is provided to Additionally, the committee reviewed, and discussed with committee members on financial, regulatory and other compliance management and the external auditors, other financial information matters through brie ngs presented by the external auditors, the issued in relation to the recommended offer for the company.
Group Company Secretary and or the General Counsel.
Critical judgements and key sources of uncertainty in the accounts Committee members have a standing invitation to attend the bi-annual are set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements and finance, control and assurance meetings for each of the groups these were reviewed by the committee.
Of particular signi cance regions, and do so on occasion.
The committee also has a rotational in the financial statements were the judgements made in respect programme for committee members to receive presentations from, of the carrying values of goodwill and investments in associates, and hold discussions with, the groups regional finance directors.
the provisioning for uncertain tax positions, and the treatment of These focus on the regional finance organisation and succession exceptional and other adjusting items in presenting underlying financial plans, priorities for the finance teams, implementation within the region performance.
These were addressed by the committee as follows: of the groups global systems template and the cost and ef ciency programme, and risk management and internal controls.
The Carrying values of goodwill and investments in associates meetings provide greater insight on these matters to members of the The judgements in respect of the carrying values of goodwill and committee and also reinforce the culture of integrity and accountability investments in associates and potential asset impairment relate to the within the group.
assumptions underlying the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal calculations and include the robustness of business plans, The committee chairman briefs the board on the matters discussed long-term growth assumptions and discount rates.
The committee at each committee meeting and the minutes of each meeting are received and discussed reports from the Chief Financial Of cer on the circulated to all board members.
impairment methodologies applied, the bases for the key assumptions used, a range of sensitivity analyses, and the related disclosures.
The The committees effectiveness was reviewed as part of the committee sought additional information from management on the effectiveness review of the board and its committees carried out plans and growth expectations in Australia where carrying values are in May 2016.
This concluded that the committee was operating signi cant and market conditions are challenging.
In the case of South satisfactorily and was effective in ful lling its mandate.
Sudan and the investment in our Angolan associate, impairment had been identi ed and a charge recognised for the impairment of property, plant and equipment and the carrying value of the investment in the associate.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 71 GOVERNANCE Audit committee report continued | Uncertain tax positions reviewed the processes for the identi cation, management and The judgements in respect of provisioning for uncertain tax positions monitoring of material risks across the group, and discussed relate to the inherent uncertainties in the application of tax law and changes to the principal risks and risk pro les during the year: practice, the assumptions underlying deferred tax asset recognition, discussed the principal risks identi ed by the risk management and the complexity of assessing potential liabilities across numerous processes, the mitigating actions, the monitoring of their jurisdictions.
The committee received and discussed a report from effectiveness, residual risk and risk appetite.
These were also the Chief Financial Of cer on the potential liabilities identi ed and discussed by the board.
As part of its review of the annual report, estimates applied and on assumptions used in respect of deferred tax the committee reviewed disclosures with respect to principal risks asset recognition.
and mitigating factors: received and discussed regular reports from the Chief Internal Exceptional and adjusting items Auditor on the progress of internal audit work against the agreed The judgements in relation to exceptional and other adjusting items annual plan, the principal findings of the internal audit work relate to whether they are appropriate to exclude in presenting undertaken, actions agreed with management, and the progress underlying financial performance in the groups key performance on implementation of prior recommendations.
The reports also indicators of EBITA and adjusted EPS.
The committee received and provided further detail on assurance activities in respect of major discussed reports from the Chief Financial Of cer on each exceptional change projects under way in the group, including the findings of and adjusting item to determine whether they were appropriate, and any third party rms appointed to provide related assurance in accordance with the groups established policy on these matters, services, and addressed any identi ed frauds of signi cance.
The committee discussed in particular the of assurance focus during the year included: management of the adjustment for the impairments and related losses in South Sudan and rollout of the global template: implementation of the cost and Angola, the costs arising as a result of the AB InBev bid proposals and ef ciency programme: IT network and data security: implementation recommended offer, including whether or not accelerated recognition of and compliance with anti-bribery and corruption policies: and of share-based charges would be appropriate as a result of the offer, progress towards voluntary compliance with the requirements and the costs incurred in relation to the planned brewery closure in of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the MillerCoors.
The committee also monitored conformity with the documentation and testing of internal controls over financial agreed policy approach in relation to the exceptional and business reporting: as usual costs of the cost and ef ciency programme, and considered reviewed and approved the annual internal audit plan and resource the assurance provided on the allocation of costs and the reporting requirements: of bene ts.
reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function, including consideration of its scope as set out in the terms of reference, the The committee received reports from the external auditors on each adequacy of resources, including skills and expertise, the relevance of these matters and discussed with them the judgements made.
of its findings and quality of reporting, and the impact of its The committee was satis ed with the explanations provided and recommendations.
The committee reviewed a report on the conclusions reached.
implementation of the recommendations arising from the previous external review of the effectiveness of internal audit and noted The committee reviewed and discussed with management the progress, particularly in relation to the more extensive use of processes undertaken to ensure that the annual report was fair, data analytics: balanced and understandable and reviewed drafts of the annual received and discussed regular reports from the General Counsel report to consider whether, based on the knowledge and on compliance matters, including the operation of the groups code understanding of committee members, it appeared to be so.
The of business conduct and ethics and related training programmes, committee received reports from the Chief Internal Auditor and the the adequacy of the groups anti-bribery and corruption framework external auditors on whether or not, having reviewed the document, and the implementation of its policies, and whistleblowing the results of their respective reviews and other work would suggest arrangements.
In relation to the groups whistleblowing otherwise.
The General Counsel reported on the steps taken to verify arrangements the committee received reports from the General the accuracy of statements in the annual report, and on compliance Counsel on concerns raised through these arrangements, both to with legal disclosure requirements.
Based on this, the committee assess whether these suggested any need for the enhancement recommended the annual report to the board as fair, balanced and of internal controls, and to assess whether the whistleblowing understandable, and as providing the information necessary for arrangements appear to be functioning effectively, with shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, proportionate and independent investigation of reported matters, business model and strategy.
appropriate protection for whistleblowers, and suitable follow-up action.
The General Counsel also reports to the committee on the Risk management and internal controls bi-annual letters of representation received from the groups With respect to its oversight of risk management and internal controls, businesses on compliance matters and on management actions the committee reviewed and discussed a wide range of matters with taken on any issues identi ed: management, and with the internal auditors and external auditors as received and discussed a presentation from the Chief Information appropriate.
These included the process changes appropriate to Of cer on cyber security, including a progress report on the ensure that the risk management and internal control activities of the programmes being implemented to protect the group against this group aligned fully with the requirements of the recently revised UK evolving risk: Corporate Governance Code.
It also included discussion of risks reviewed with the Chief Financial Of cer and the Director of Group arising as a consequence of the recommended offer and how these Tax the groups tax policies and operating frameworks, revisions would be mitigated during the period to completion of the transaction.
proposed to take account of evolving best practice and experience, The committee: and the annual Our Approach to Tax report.
After discussion, amendments updating the policies were agreed by the committee for endorsement by the board: 72 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E received reports at each meeting of the committee on compliance In view of the recommended offer for the company, the signi cant with treasury policies, including commodity hedging and deal-related activity and additional workloads and pressures on counterparty credit limits: management, the committee has agreed with PwC that Richard received updates on the groups global insurance arrangements, Hughes should continue as the lead audit partner for the current and on the operation and funding of the groups fide ned bene t financial year ending 31 March 2017, which is one year beyond the post-retirement plans: and normal five year term.
The committee believes that continuity at this received regular updates from the Chief Financial Of cer on time will best serve audit quality and reduce risk.
To address any developments within the finance function.
possible independence concerns arising from this extension of term, PwC has arranged to appoint an independent partner to monitor the As part of the year-end procedures, and based on the activities execution of the audit.
This is additional to the oversight of the audit described above, the audit committee reviewed the effectiveness by the engagement quality review partner assigned to our audit.
This of the systems of internal control and risk management during the latter role is not part of an audit team per se but provides an internally financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, rather than independent view within an audit rm on the conduct of the audit and eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, the audit judgements made.
they can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The committee reported to the board The committee conducted its annual review of the performance on this basis.
of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit process for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The review was based External audit independence and effectiveness on a survey of key stakeholders across the group, consideration SABMiller has a well-established policy on the independence of the of public regulatory reports on PwC member rms, and the quality external auditors and management of the companys relationship with of the auditors reporting to and interaction with the committee.
This sets out: the committees responsibilities in the selection of Based on this review, the committee was satis ed with the auditors to be proposed for appointment or reappointment and for performance of the auditors, their objectivity and the effectiveness agreement on the terms of their engagement, audit scope and of the audit process.
In the light of this and their continued remuneration: the auditor independence requirements and the policy independence, the committee has recommended to the board on the provision of non-audit services and the rotation of audit that a resolution for the reappointment of PwC as the external partners and staff: and the conduct of the relationship between the auditors for the financial year ending 31 March 2017 be proposed auditors and the committee.
at the annual general meeting.
The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that The European Union has directed member states to adopt legislation would compromise their independence or violate any professional by 2016 requiring that companies change their external auditors at requirements or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors.
least every 10 years, or every 20 years if an audit tender is held after The auditors may, however, provide non-audit services which do 10 years, subject to transitional rules, and restricting further the not interfere with their independence, and where their skills and non-audit services that may be provided.
Under the transitional rules experience make them a logical supplier, subject to pre-approval by of the new EU regulations, mandatory auditor rotation would require the committee.
The policy stipulates the types of work that are not that new auditors for the company be appointed for the year ending permitted to be performed by the auditors and those which may be 31 March 2024 at the latest.
The Competition and Markets Authority permitted in appropriate circumstances.
The groups procedures Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 is consistent with these require that any non-audit services proposed to be provided by the requirements on audit tendering.
The UK Corporate Governance auditors be supported by justi cation as to why the appointment of the Code requires, on a comply or explain basis, that the audit is put external auditors to provide the services is in the best interests of the out to tender at least every 10 years, subject to transitional guidance group, and how auditor independence would be safeguarded in the that, when a tender has not been held in the past 10 years, it would speci c context of the proposed services.
The committee has, at each be appropriate to coincide a tender with the next rotation of the lead meeting, reviewed and agreed the non-audit services provided in the audit engagement partner.
year and the related fees, which are summarised in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
SABMiller does not indemnify its In view of the recommended offer, the committee will not now hold external auditors and there are no contractual obligations restricting the audit tender that was planned for later this year for appointment the choice of external auditors.
for the financial year commencing 1 April 2017.
The committee believes avoiding the distraction of a tender during the period The external auditors, , later becoming preceding a conclusion of the recommended offer to be in the best  LLP PwC in 2003, were appointed interests of shareholders.
Should a transaction not be completed, as the companys auditors in 1999 when the company moved it is the committees intention that an audit tender process be initiated its headquarters from Johannesburg to London and listed on the as soon as practicable thereafter for appointment for the following London Stock Exchange.
year, which in these circumstances would likely be the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2018.
PwC has con rmed to the committee its continuing independence and compliance with the SABMiller policy on auditor independence.
The Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner 2014 sets out certain regulations in respect of audit tendering and responsible for the audit engagement every five years, unless there appointments and related audit committee responsibilities which came are unusual extenuating circumstances when a further year may be into effect for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2015. considered.
The lead audit engagement partner, Richard Hughes, The company has complied with the provisions of the Order for the has now completed five years.
