CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 Andrew Goodsell 2 Lance Batchelor 3 Jonathan Hill Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Andrew joined Saga in 1992 as Business Lance joined Saga as Group Chief Jonathan joined Saga in April 2015 from Development Manager, Saga Services.
Bovis Homes Group plc where he was He became Saga Group Business Prior tothat he was CEO of Dominos Group Finance Director.
Prior to that, Development Director in 1995, Chief Pizza Group plc from 2011-2014 and heheld various senior roles within TUI Executive of Saga Services and Saga CEO ofTesco Mobile from 2008-2011.
Jonathan qualified Investment Direct in 1999, Deputy Group His earlier experience includes senior as a Chartered Accountant at Price Chief Executive in 2001 and Chief marketing roles at Procter & Gamble, Waterhouse in London.
He brings a Executive and Chairman in 2004.
Lances wealth of senior financial operational led two management buyouts at Saga.
first career was as a Royal Navy and listed company experience to his The second, in 2007, brought together submarine officer.
He holds an MBA role at Saga.
Saga and the AA under the holding from Harvard Business School, and is Committee membership: company Acromas Holdings.
Andrew was aTrustee of the National Gallery.
Lance Executive Chairman of the AA from 2007 has a wealth of senior operational Executive.
until Acromas Holdings sold it in 2014: experience in listed companies which and Executive Chairman of Saga from he brings to his role at Saga.
2007 until he became Non-Executive Chairman on 1 July 2015.
He brings great Committee membership: Executive.
experience of the Group to his Board role.
60 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance 4 Philip Green CBE coupled with his knowledge of running 8 Gareth Williams abusiness similar to Saga, and his Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director experiences Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director including that of chairing audit committees, are all immensely Philip is currently Chairman of Carillion plc.
Gareth is currently a Non-Executive helpfultothe Board.
He is also Chairman of BakerCorp, a US Director of YSC Limited and WNS industrial services company owned by Holdings Limited.
Previously, he was Committee membership: Permira, and Chairman Designate of Human Resources Director of Diageo Audit Chairman, Nomination, Williams & Glyn.
Previously, Philip was plc and held a series of key positions in Remuneration and Risk.
Chairman of Clarkson plc, Chief Executive human resources at Grand Metropolitan of United Utilities Group plc and Chief plc.
Gareths contributions to the Board Executive of Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV.
6 Bridget McIntyre are on all aspects of human resources His earlier business experience includes and his experience of working at Independent serving as Chief Operating Officer of Director level in a consumer facing Non-Executive Director Reuters Group plc and Chief Operating organisation also allows him to Officer of DHL for Europe and Africa.
Philip contribute to all other subjects Bridget is currently a Non-Executive is also the UK Prime Ministers adviser on Director of Adnams plc.
corporate responsibility and Chairman of shewas Chief Executive of the RSA Committee membership: Sentebale, a charity set up by HRH Prince UKbusiness and a Director of RSA Harry.
Philip was awarded a CBE in the Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Insurance Group plc having held senior Nomination and Risk.
This roles at Aviva and pre-merger Norwich was for services to business and to charity Union.
Bridget is also an associate with in the UK and South Africa.
Philip brings the Chartered Institute of Management 9 James Arnell his experience of running a variety of Accountants.
Bridget brings in-depth Non-Executive Director complex international organisations insurance expertise as well as andacting as an Executive and NonJames has been a Partner at considerable general and financial Executive Director of many management experience to the Board.
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP publiccompanies to the Board.
He was involved in the Committee membership: acquisition of Saga by the Charterhouse Committee membership: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Funds in 2004 and in Charterhouses Nomination Chairman, Audit, and Risk.
investment in the Acromas Group in Remuneration and Risk.
He has been a member of the Saga and Acromas Boards throughout 7 Orna NiChionna the period of Charterhouses 5 Ray King Independent investment.
He is also a Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director of various other companies and Non-Executive Director has been involved in Charterhouses Orna is currently Senior Independent investments in the UK, France and Ray is currently Chairman of Rothesay Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail Germany.
Jamess role on the Board is Holdco UK Ltd and of its regulated plc.
Previously, she was Senior to represent the views of Charterhouse, subsidiary, Rothesay Life plc.
He is also Independent Non-Executive Director of but his professional and business a Non-Executive Director of the Financial HMV plc, Northern Foods plc and Bupa experiences also ensure that he makes Reporting Council where he is a member and a Non-Executive Director of the a very valuable contribution.
of the Codes and Standards Committee Bank of Ireland UK Holdings plc and and chairs the Audit and Assurance Bristol & West plc.
Orna is also currently Council.
Previously, he was Chief the Deputy Chairman of the National Executive of Bupa from 2008-2012, after Trust and a former Partner at McKinsey serving as Group Finance Director from & Company.
Before Bupa, Ray was a Company, Ornas client portfolio Non-Executive Director of Friends included many consumer facing clients Provident plc, Deputy Chief Executive and she brings these skills to the Board of Parity Group plc, Director of Group along with herconsiderable experience Finance and Control at Diageo plc and in other Non-Executive Director roles.
Group Finance Director of Southern Water plc.
In 2015, Ray resigned as Committee membership: a Reporting Panel Member of the Risk Chairman, Audit, Nomination Competition and Markets Authority and andRemuneration.
as a Non-Executive Director of Infinis Energy Plc.
His financial experience ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 61
