CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Nomination Committee Report Philip Green Role of the Committee Main responsibilities and Chairman, Nomination Our role is to review Board allocation of time spent Committee composition, consider succession onmatters: planning and evaluate skills required Regularly reviewing the structure, in Board candidates.
size and composition including the skills, knowledge, Committee members consist of five independence, experience and independent Non-Executive Directors diversity of the Board and making and Andrew Goodsell.
Bridget McIntyre recommendations with regard to was appointed as a Committee member any changes.
Dear Shareholder, with effect from 1 January 2016 so did Giving full consideration to not attend any meetings during the We have seen further changes to succession planning for Directors ourBoard composition this year.
and other senior executives, to As communicated in last years ensure progressive refreshing of Attendance report, Jonathan Hill became Group theBoard.
During the year, the Committee met on Chief Financial Officer Designate on Evaluating the balance of skills, four occasions and has also met twice 7 April 2015 and a Board Director knowledge, independence, since the year end.
Following Stuart experience and diversity on Howard stepping down at the theBoard and, in light of this Companys 2015 AGM, Jonathan Member Attendance evaluation, preparing a description became Group Chief Financial Officer.
of the role and capabilities required Philip Green Chairman 4 4 Jonathan brings a wealth of senior for a particular appointment and its financial, operational and listed Ray King 4 4 expected time commitment.
Reviewing the results of the Board Orna NiChionna 4 4 performance evaluation process I am also pleased to welcome thatrelate to the composition of Andrew Goodsell 2 2 BridgetMcIntyre as an additional theBoard.
independent Non-Executive Director, Gareth Williams 4 4 following a comprehensive search.
Bridget brings considerable general 4 The Company Secretary attends all and financial management experience, meetings as secretary to the Committee.
gained within some of the UKs largest 17% 20% In addition, the Group ChiefExecutive 1 general insurers.
She was also Officer and Group HRDirector attend appointed as a member of the Audit, 3 by invitation.
Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Andrew Goodsell was 20% appointed as a Committee member with effect from 24 September 2015.
2 43% We have continued to engage with senior management and the business throughout the year.
Board evaluation 64 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Our terms of reference considering diversity, timetable, interviews, We also contributed to the Board Our terms of reference were reviewed shortlist and final recommendation in evaluation in terms of Board bythe Committee and subsequently relation to the appointment.
A full summary of the approved by the Board on 24 September Board evaluation and action points 2015.
These explain our role and the We used MWM Consulting, an external isprovided on page 63.
A fully externally consultant, to assist with the search.
authority delegated by the Board and facilitated review will take place are available on the Saga website at MWM Consulting has no other this year.
co. uk corporateinformation corporate-governance and Actions for 2016 17 An overview of the Director induction from the Company Secretary at the Looking ahead, we will: process has been included in the registered office.
Effectiveness section of the Corporate continue to review succession Governance Statement on pages 62-63.
What we have done during the year plans for executive and key roles Board composition across the business Diversity At the centre of our remit is a detailed continue to identify our future We believe it is in the very nature of Saga understanding of the Boards and the talent pipeline to recognise the benefits that diversity Board Committees structure, size and ensure that the structure, size and brings.
With this in mind our policy is to composition.
Changes to the Board composition including the skills, appoint the best possible candidate, who composition throughout the year are knowledge, independence and will be considered on merit and against explained in the Effectiveness section experience and diversity of the objective criteria, rather than to set quotas ofthe Corporate Governance Statement Board is right, conducting skills for a particular aspect that may deflect us on pages 62-63. gap analysis where necessary from achieving this fundamental target review executives roles within every time.
At the date of this report, Andrew Goodsell became Noncrisis management procedures.
Executive Chairman on 1 July 2015, as 22% of the Board isfemale.
projected when the Company listed and Succession planning and following a 16 month handover with talentmanagement Lance Batchelor.
This change did not Since the year end, a comprehensive impact on the business.
The Division talent review mapping exercise took ofresponsibilities between Chairman, place, which identified opportunities Group Chief Executive Officer and andrecorded succession planning, Roleof Senior Independent Director Philip Green including emergency successors, document was amended and approved Chairman, Nomination Committee for executive and key roles across by the Board on 8 December 2015. the business.
Appointment of Directors Effectiveness of the Our terms of reference say how we NominationCommittee recruit and appoint Directors to the Evaluation Board.
We use open advertising or the An evaluation of the Committees services of external advisers to facilitate effectiveness took place during the year, our search for the best possible as part of the Board effectiveness candidates from a wide range of review for details see page 63.
was an internal review with the support of Independent Audit Limited.
Members We actively participated in the search felt that the Committee worked well, foran additional Non-Executive Director.
with decisions being well thought Wewere involved in the drafting of the through after robust discussion.
role description taking into account thebalance of skills, time commitment, knowledge and experience required and ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 65
