CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Effectiveness The members of the Board Chairman As explained in last years annual report, The Board considers its overall size Following a 16 month handover external search consultant, Russell andcomposition to be appropriate, toLance Batchelor, the Chairman Reynolds Associates, was engaged having regard in particular to the transitioned to a Non-Executive Director to conduct a confidential search for independence of character, integrity, on 1 July 2015.
The Chairman was candidates after a competitive pitch differences of approach and experience appointed a member of the Nomination process.
We reviewed and developed of all the Directors.
We give due regard Committee on 24 September 2015. arole description for the position and to the benefits of diversity in its widest agreed the critical competencies required.
sense for the current and future Board Selection of an additional Non-Executive Director A wide range of candidates from a composition, recognising that this is essential for effective engagement with MWM Consulting, an external search variety of national and multi-national agency, assisted in the recruitment companies, both publicly and privately our key stakeholders.
process for an additional Non-Executive owned, were put forward by Russell We consider that the skills and Director.
A role description was Reynolds Associates for consideration experienceof our individual members, developed to set out the capabilities and a shortlist was agreed upon for particularly in the areas of insurance, required.
After MWM Consulting had interview.
Detailed interviews and financial services, consumer services, identified a list of potential candidates, thorough referencing took place and brand management, corporate finance, ashortlist was selected for interview.
the experiences and backgrounds mergers and acquisitions, and risk After detailed interviews, thorough of the potential candidates were management, are fundamental to the referencing and careful consideration considered against the key pursuit of our strategic objectives.
In ofthe skillset required to balance the responsibilities and critical competencies.
addition, the quoted company experience Board and complement existing The recommendation wasto appoint of members of the Board in a variety of competencies Bridget McIntyre was Jonathan Hill as Stuarts replacement.
sectors and markets is invaluable to Saga.
selected and put forward for Board Jonathan joined the Groupas Group approval.
Bridget was also appointed Chief Financial Officer Designate on Independence of as a member of the Audit, Nomination, 7 April 2015, was appointed as a  Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Director of the Board on 29 April 2015 The Board considers five of the and assumed the position of Group Non-Executive Directors to be MWM Consulting has no other Chief Financial Officer at the close independent of Sagas executive relationship with the Company.
of the AGM on 23 June 2015. management and free from any Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement business or other relationships that Russell Reynolds Associates is a could materially interfere with the entered into between the Company and signatory to the Voluntary Code of each of the Private Equity Investors as exercise of their independent Conduct for executive search firms judgement.
These directors are Philip defined and explained further on page andhas no other connection to 102 each Private Equity Investor Green, Ray King, Bridget McIntyre, theCompany.
Orna NiChionna and Gareth Williams.
appointed one Non-Executive Director to the Board.
On 2 December 2015, Induction of the current Although Philip Green serves on the Non-Executive Directors Board of BakerCorp a Permira portfolio Charles Sherwood and Pev Hooper resigned as Directors as the interest of All independent Non-Executive company, the other Directors have Directors attended strategy sessions concluded that he is of independent each of the Private Equity Investors who had appointed them fell below 10%.
for each of our businesses character and judgement taking into account Philips judgement, experience tounderstand the short and long-term Group Chief Financial Officer goals of the Group.
They continue to and challenging approach and should Stuart Howard, our Group Chief be regarded as an independent director visit all areas of the business to gain Financial Officer, retired at the first-hand experience of how Saga for the purposes of the Code.
Companys first AGM, on 23 June 2015. works, including listening to calls duringvisits to our call centres.
62 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance As Bridget McIntyre has recently joined The online tailored questionnaires were Board action plan for 2016 17: the Board, this served as an opportunity structured to provide Directors Looking ahead, the Board will: to refresh our induction process.
So Committee members and attendees thatBridget could familiarise herself with with an opportunity to express their allow more time for strategic debate continue to monitor the skills our strategy, competitive and industry views about: environment, Group structure, required in terms of Board the performance of the Board and its composition recognising that the governance and risk profile appetite, we arranged for one-to-one sessions Committees, including how the Board will change further when the Directors work together as a whole remaining Private Equity Investor with chief executive officers and managing directors of all business areas, the balance of skills, experience, appointed Director resigns independence and knowledge build on the high levels of interaction our Chief Marketing Officer, Company Secretary, General Counsel, Head of of the Directors between Non-Executive Directors our culture, level of strategic and and the business and use their Compliance, Head of Internal Audit, Chief Risk Officer and Group HRDirector.
risk discussion experience to full advantage individual performance and whether consider the impact of reward In addition, Bridget was provided with a comprehensive pack including Board and each Director continues to make an systems on risk attitudes, decision effective contribution making and reporting, to link Committee meeting minutes, terms of reference, strategy papers, presentations organisation of meetings, including continuously risk appetite to agenda setting, time spent on each decisionmaking and reporting.
on the Saga Way and the Saga Model, recent analyst and broker reports, and item and quality of papers corporate governance and regulatory The results of the evaluation of the our policies and procedures.
Chairmans performance were compliance support.
Board effectiveness review considered by the Senior Independent The responses to the evaluation of Director and the Non-Executive The Board and its Committees undertook their first evaluation of their the Board and its Committees were Directors and were discussed between reviewed with the Chairman and then the Senior Independent Director and performance during the year.
The evaluation was conducted internally thorough reports prepared by the the Chairman.
Company Secretary were considered withthe support of Independent Audit In accordance with the Code, the Limited, using their online service, by each Committee and the Board.
Separate meetings were also held Board will be undertaking an externally Thinking Board, which was used to facilitated evaluation in 2016 17.
This will bring rigour and an expert external between the Chairman and individual Directors to discuss the Boards include a review of progress made in perspective to the internal review.
Independent Audit does not have any effectiveness and individual performance.
The results of the other connection to the Company.
Annual re-election evaluation indicated that the Board had The Directors are standing for election now established a good understanding Online tailored questionnaires or re-election and at the AGM.
Our view of the Group during the second year as is that each of the Directors standing a listed company, and that Directors for election or re-election should be had a good grasp of the business appointed, as we believe that they and subject knowledge.
There are Completed by Directors, Committee have the skills required for the Board to no significant concerns among members and attendees discharge its responsibilities, as outlined the Directors about the Boards in each of their biographies set out effectiveness although it was felt that on pages 60-61. more time could be spent on discussing Reports produced by strategic issues.
It was agreed that the Company Secretary strategy awayday provided a very useful insight into each business area.
Review discussion with Chairman Board Committees were viewed positively.
These were considered to be well chaired and organised, with the right level of strategic discussion and Board Committee discussion challenge at each.
Each Committee agreed action points for 2016 17.
Action plans ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 63
