GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Dear Shareholder This report describes how our board applies the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and its general approach to corporate governance.
The role of the board is to oversee the governance of the company, and to ensure that the principles on matters such as leadership, board effectiveness, financial accountability and risk management are rigorously applied.
The most important task for the board in the year was our consideration and recommendation of the takeover offer from ABInBev.
The boards initial rejection of terms that it considered did not adequately value SABMiller resulted ultimately in signi cantly improved offer terms, and an agreement between SABMiller and ABInBev pursuant to which AB InBev has agreed to use its best efforts to secure the regulatory clearances and authorisations necessary to satisfy the pre-conditions and regulatory conditions to the transaction, with a break fee of US$3 billion payable if these Jan du Plessis clearances are not achieved.
Both parties have agreed to certain Chairman undertakings to cooperate and provide each other with reasonable information, assistance and access in relation to the lings, submissions and noti cations to be made in relation to those regulatory clearances and authorisations.
Nevertheless, the board remains focused on the need for our business to continue to perform strongly and to pursue its strategic objectives until the transaction is completed.
Until that time, the boards duties in relation to governance and leadership are unaffected.
In the year the board, with the help of the audit committee, reviewed the risk management activities of the group to ensure that they were aligned with the revised Code, which requires that directors con rm that they have made a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company and monitor the companys risk management systems The most important task for and controls.
The company has a thorough biannual risk assessment the board in the year was our process and actively monitors the effectiveness of the risk mitigations and controls.
Our audit committee has overseen the risk management consideration and recommendation processes implemented by management and the board has of the takeover offer from conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group.
Nevertheless, the board Our effectiveness review has con rmed that the board and its remains focused on the need committees are operating effectively and ful lling their respective mandates, and that board members are performing satisfactorily.
for our business to continue to I am also pleased to con rm that notwithstanding the distraction of perform strongly and to pursue the AB InBev offer, good progress has been made in addressing each of the focus areas identi ed in the prior years effectiveness review.
its strategic objectives until the transaction is completed.
Until In July 2015 the board took the important step of appointing a new CFO.
Following a selection process involving internal and external that time, the boards duties in candidates, we were pleased to appoint Domenic fide Lorenzo as a relation to governance and director and as our Chief Financial Of cer following the conclusion of the 2015 annual general meeting.
We also welcomed Dave Beran leadership are unaffected.
to the board, who was nominated by Altria to replace Howard Willard.
The renewal of the board continued, with the appointment of Javier Ferrn as a non-executive director at our last annual general meeting.
We are pleased to offer our congratulations to Javier on his appointment as non-executive director and chairman-designate of Diageo, though since Diageo is a competitor he will step down from our board at our upcoming annual general meeting, before taking up this appointment.
Jan du Plessis Chairman 10 June 2016 58 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E Leadership Board of directors We currently have 15 directors: our Chairman Jan du Plessis : seven independent non-executive directors: five non-executive directors whom we do not consider to be independent: and two executive directors Alan Clark, the Chief Executive and Domenic fide Lorenzo, the Chief Financial Of cer.
The independent non-executive directors include Guy Elliott, who is our Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Short biographies of each of the directors are on pages 54 and 55.
Our governance framework The size and certain aspects of the composition of our board and our audit, nomination and corporate accountability and risk assurance committees continue to be determined in part by the terms of our relationship agreements with our two largest shareholders, Altria Group, Inc. Altria and BevCo Ltd a holding company of the Santo Domingo Group.
Both agreements have been approved by SABMillers shareholders.
Our agreement with Altria limits the size of the board to a maximum of 15 directors, of whom no more than two are to be executive directors, up to three are to be non-executive directors nominated by Altria, up to two are to be non-executive directors nominated by BevCo, and up to eight including the chairman are to be non-executive directors nominated by the board.
Our agreement with BevCo allows it to nominate up to two non-executive directors for appointment to the board.
Altria and BevCo have each exercised their right under their respective agreements to nominate one director for appointment to the nomination committee, being Geoff Bible and Alejandro Santo Domingo respectively.
Both Altria and BevCo have the right to nominate directors for appointment to the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC, which Altria has exercised nominating Geoff Bible butBevCo has not.
Altria has also exercised its right to nominate one director Dinyar Devitre for appointment to the audit committee.
Board of directors Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Of cer Seven independent Responsible for leadership Responsible for the day to day Responsible for managing all non-executive directors of the board and presiding management of the business in aspects of the finance function, over its meetings accordance with the strategy providing strategic input to the Five other non-executive approved by the board board and executive committee, directors and supporting the Chief Nominated by our two Executive in the delivery of the major shareholders groups strategy Board Committees Remuneration committee Audit committee Nomination committee Members: Four independent Members: Four independent non-executive Members: The Chairman and five nonnon-executive directors directors and one non-executive director executive directors, three independent and nominated by Altria one each nominated by Altria and BevCo Role: Determines the reward strategy for the executive directors and senior Role: Monitors the integrity of the groups Role: Ensures the board and senior management, to align their interests financial statements and the effectiveness management team have the appropriate with those of the shareholders of the external and internal auditors skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively, and to develop and deliver the groups strategy Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee Disclosure committee Members: The Chairman, Chief Executive and four non-executive Members: The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive, directors Chief Financial Of cer, one other non-executive director, and the General Counsel, or the Group Company Secretary Role: Assists the board in the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to corporate accountability, including sustainable development, Role: Assists the board in ensuring compliance with the Disclosure and corporate social responsibility and corporate social investment.
Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules Management committee Executive committee Members: Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer, four regional managing directors and four directors of key group functions Role: Assists the Chief Executive with the development and implementation of the groups strategy, the management of the business and the discharge of responsibilities delegated by the board SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 59 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued | Our application of the UK Corporate Governance Code The board applied all of the main principles and provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2016, except in the following respects: i.
Our audit committee did not consist solely of independent directors.
Under our relationship agreement with Altria, as approved by the shareholders in 2002 and 2005, Altria has the right to nominate a director to the audit committee, and has nominated Dinyar Devitre, who the board does not consider to be an independent director for the purposes of the Code.
The board nevertheless considers that the composition of the audit committee remains appropriate, given Altrias interest as the companys largest shareholder.
Dinyar Devitre is a former Chief Financial Of cer of Altria and the board considers that his experience and background in financial matters and his independence from management mean that the effectiveness of our audit committee in discharging its functions is considerably enhanced and not compromised by his membership.
The Code recommends that the performance evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
In our 2015 annual report, we communicated that an externally facilitated performance evaluation would be undertaken early in the tenure of our new Chairman, Jan du Plessis.
In light of the expected transaction timetable for the takeover offer by AB InBev, the board considered that it would have limited time to bene t from the findings of an externally facilitated effectiveness evaluation during its tenure.
In addition, an extensive external evaluation would have absorbed time and signi cant resources at precisely the time that the board needed to focus its attention on the demands of the takeover offer.
After careful consideration, the board took the decision not to conduct an external effectiveness evaluation in the year under review, and instead to conduct such an evaluation internally.
If for any reason the takeover offer does not proceed to completion, the board intends then to undertake an externally facilitated effectiveness evaluation.
A report on the assessment of the effectiveness of the board and its committees led by our Deputy Chairman Guy Elliott is set out on page 66 of this report.
Under the Code, the company is required to put its external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
The company has not tendered its external audit contract within the last 10 years.
In the ordinary course, we would have conducted an audit tender during the 2016 calendar year as communicated in our 2015 annual report.
In light of the exceptional circumstances of the takeover offer by AB InBev, the audit committee decided to defer the audit tender.
The audit committee noted that an audit tender during the offer period would be inappropriate.
If for any reason the takeover offer were not to proceed to completion, the audit committee intends then to conduct a tender process.
The Code recommends that a majority of members of the nomination committee should be independent non-executive directors.
Following his appointment as Chairman of the company in July, Jan du Plessis, a member of the nomination committee and an independent nonexecutive director on his appointment to the board on 1 September 2014, was required to be disregarded in the determination of whether the majority of members of the committee were independent.
Between 23 July 2015 and 24 September 2015 the nomination committee comprised Jan du Plessis, two non-executives directors considered to be independent and two non-executives not considered to be independent, and was therefore not compliant although the committee did not meet during this period.
On 24 September 2015 Lesley Knox, an independent non-executive director, was appointed to the committee, at which point the committee met the membership recommendations of the Code.
v. One director, Mark Armour, was unable to attend the 2015 annual general meeting as he was attending a family funeral.
60 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E Board meetings and attendance Board and committee meetings are held in an atmosphere of direct, robust and constructive challenge and debate among board and committee members.
During the year we held seven regularly scheduled board meetings, as well as five specially convened meetings held on short notice to consider AB InBevs proposals which led to the announcement on 11 November of the recommendation of AB InBevs offer for SABMiller.
Individual directors attendance at board and committee meetings and at the annual general meeting is set out in the table below.
In the few instances when directors could not attend a board or committee meeting, any comments which they had on the matters to be considered were given in advance to the chairman of the meeting, to the General Counsel, or to the Group Company Secretary.
Directors attendance 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 Board Audit Remuneration CARAC Attended Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible AGM P J Manser N A 3 3 1 1 Y J P Du Plessis N A 12 12 1 1 Y A J Clark N A 12 12 2 2 Y D fide Lorenzo N A 10 10 N A M H Armour Yes 11 12 4 4 4 4 N D R Beran No 10 10 Y G C Bible No 11 12 2 2 Y D S Devitre No 10 12 4 4 Y G R Elliott Yes 12 12 4 4 4 4 Y J F Ferrn Yes 10 10 3 3 Y L M S Knox Yes 12 12 4 4 4 4 Y T A Manuel Yes 11 12 1 1 Y J A Manzoni Yes 2 3 1 1 1 1 Y D F Moyo Yes 11 12 2 2 Y C A Prez Dvila No 11 12 Y A Santo Domingo Dvila No 12 12 Y H A Weir Yes 12 12 4 4 2 2 Y H A Willard No 3 3 Y The nomination committee did not meet during the year under review.
Mark Armour was unable to attend the July 2015 annual general meeting and associated board meeting as he was attending a family funeral.
Geoff Bible, Dinyar Devitre, John Manzoni and Carlos Prez were unable to attend the board meeting in June, which was called at short notice to consider a possible transaction.
Trevor Manuel and Dambisa Moyo were each unable to attend one board meeting in October, which was called at short notice to consider the AB InBev transaction.
Dinny Devitre was unable to attend the board meeting in January due to a pre-existing business commitment.
Domenic fide Lorenzo was appointed as a director after the conclusion of the annual general meeting.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 61 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued | The work of the board From press speculation to a recommended offer The board brings leadership to the group and sets strategic objectives, determines investment policies, agrees on performance criteria, and delegates to management the detailed planning and implementation The work of the SABMiller board of those objectives and policies in accordance with appropriate risk parameters determined by the board.
The board monitors Following press speculation, on 16 September 2015 SABMiller achievement against objectives and compliance with policies by announced that it had been informed by AB InBev that it intended to holding management accountable for its activities through monthly make a proposal to acquire SABMiller.
At that time no proposal had and quarterly performance reporting and budget updates.
The board been received and the board of SABMiller had no further details about receives regular brie ngs from the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial the terms of any such proposal.
Of cer, the General Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director, and from the Group Company Secretary on legal, regulatory and corporate Under the UK Takeover Code that announcement triggered a 28 day governance matters.
Other members of our executive committee put up or shut up PUSU deadline for AB InBev to announce a rm make regular presentations to the board, enabling directors to explore intention to make an offer for SABMiller or to announce that it would and interrogate speci c issues and developments in greater detail.
In not be making an offer, and started an intense period of work for the the ordinary course, the board also schedules visits to our regions, SABMiller board.
normally holding two meetings a year outside the UK, allowing directors the opportunity to meet in-country management.
The As a result of the approach and the PUSU deadline, the board demands of the AB InBev takeover offer were such that it was rescheduled planned strategy meetings and a market visit in order to necessary to defer executive committee member presentations and focus on the possible transaction.
The PUSU deadline was extended that it was not feasible or appropriate to undertake scheduled regional three times prior to the announcement of a recommended acquisition visits to Europe and Africa in September and January, respectively.
During the eight week period from the first the end of each board meeting, thenon-executive directors meet announcement on 16 September and 11 November: without management present.
the board received detailed brie ngs on Takeover Code issues and Matters reserved for the board directors responsibilities: There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively five board meetings were held, with near 100% attendance at by the board.
These include approval of financial statements: the meetings by directors: groups business strategy: the annual capital expenditure plan: the scheduled SABMiller trading update in October was brought major capital projects: signi cant changes to the groups management forward by 10 days: and control structure: material investments or disposals: risk new ef ciency and cost savings targets were announced and management strategy: sustainability and environmental policies: reported on: and treasury policies.
the board received and debated rigorous and detailed presentations on the stand-alone value and prospects of SABMiller: Each standing board committee has speci c written terms of a large number of board, shareholder, analyst, management and reference issued by the board and adopted in committee.
The terms adviser calls and brie ngs were held: and of reference of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are the recommended offer was negotiated with AB InBev and available on our website.
All committee chairmen report orally on the approved by the board, after AB InBev raised its initial cash offer of proceedings of their committees at the next meeting of the board, 38 per share six times to the final offer of 44 per share.
The and the minutes of all board committee meetings are circulated to all agreed terms which were recommended by the board included an board members.
undertaking by AB InBev to use its best efforts to secure regulatory clearances, and a break fee of US$3 billion payable to the company The membership and work of these committees are described on the in certain circumstances.
From time to time other ad hoc committees may be constituted for speci c projects or tasks.
Throughout the period the board was advised by the General Counsel and by the Group Company Secretary, and by experienced external Con icts of interest investment banking and legal advisers.
Our directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that con icts, or may con ict, with the companys interests.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association of the company allow the board to authorise potential con icts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks t. Procedures are in place for the disclosure by directors of any potential con icts and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought if a con ict arises.
We are con dent that our procedures concerning actual and potential con icts of interest continue to operate effectively.
62 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E Roles and responsibilities Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Deputy Chairman The roles of executive and non-executive directors and Senior Independent Director Our executive directors are responsible for proposing strategy and The Chairman and Chief Executive have separate roles and the for making and implementing operational and strategic decisions.
division of responsibilities between them is set out in a written Our non-executive directors complement the skills and experience statement of responsibilities approved by the board.
They bring independent judgement and constructive challenge to the boardroom and contribute to the The Senior Independent Director serves as an additional contact formulation of strategy, policy and decision-making through their point for shareholders.
He is also available to fellow non-executive collective wealth of knowledge and experience of other businesses directors, either individually or collectively, to discuss any matters and sectors.
of concern in a forum that does not include the Chairman, the executive directors or other members of the management team.
The Group Company Secretary The statement of responsibilities of the Deputy Chairman and Senior The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the board and Independent Director was last revised following Guy Elliotts its committees and attended all meetings during the year under appointment and was approved by the board in its meeting in March review.
The current Group Company Secretary, Stephen Shapiro, 2014.
Our Chairman and Deputy Chairman are both available to was appointed in November 2014, having served as Deputy consult with shareholders throughout the year.
The board is kept Company Secretary from 2002.
He is also Deputy General Counsel.
informed of the views of shareholders through regular updates from the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Of cer, the General Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director, and the Group Company Secretary, as well as through regular circulation to the board and the inclusion in the board papers of reports on comments from, and exchanges with, shareholders, investor bodies and analysts.
The boards committees and the executive committee Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules, as guided by the General The board currently operates five committees.
The composition of Counsel and by the Group Company Secretary.
It also aims to ensure each of the audit and disclosure committees is set out below, as is that the channels of communication between executive committee that of the executive committee.
The composition and work of the members, the disclosure committee, the Group Company Secretarys nomination, remuneration and corporate accountability and risk of ce and the investor relations team are clear, and can enable any assurance committees are described on pages 64 and 65, and the decision regarding potential inside information to be escalated rapidly work of the audit committee is fully described on pages 70 to 73. to the disclosure committee, key advisers and the board.
The audit committee The executive committee excom During the year under review the audit committee was chaired by The board delegates responsibility for proposing and implementing Mark Armour, who first joined the committee on 1 May 2010 and the groups strategy and for managing the group to the Chief has been its chairman since 6 June 2013.
Executive, Alan Clark, who is supported by excom, which he chairs.
Excom members are appointed by Alan Clark, after consultation Dinyar Devitre, Guy Elliott, Lesley Knox and Helen Weir also served on with the board.
The other members of excom are the Chief Financial the committee throughout the year.
Dinyar Devitre has been a member Of cer, regional managing directors and directors of key group of the committee since 16 May 2007, Guy Elliott since 25 July 2013 functions legal and corporate affairs, marketing, integrated supply, and Lesley Knox and Helen Weir since 19 May 2011.
The board is and human resources.
Excoms purpose is to support the Chief satis ed that Mark Armour, Dinyar Devitre, Guy Elliott, Lesley Knox Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board and Helen Weir all have recent and relevant financial experience.
and, in that context, it executes the strategy and budget approved by the board and, through the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Biographical information concerning Mark Armour and the other Of cer, reports on these matters to the board.
members of the committee is set out on pages 54 and 55.
The excom also ensures that effective internal controls are in place Further details of the work and responsibilities of the audit committee and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management are included in the audit committee report on pages 70 to 73. process in operation throughout the group.
The audit committee reviews the risk management processes put in place by excom and The disclosure committee the board reviews the groups signi cant risks, following excoms The disclosure committee consists of the Chairman, the Deputy review of those risks.
Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Of cer, any one other non-executive director, the General Counsel or the Group Company Secretary.
The function of the disclosure committee is to meet as and when required to assist the board in ensuring compliance with the companys obligations under the UKs Disclosure and SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 63 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued | Nomination committee report Where vacancies arise, the committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Appropriate succession plans for the non-executive directors, executive directors, and senior management are also kept under close review.
Where non-executive vacancies arise, the committee may use external consultants to identify suitable candidates for the board to consider.
A rigorous selection process, led by search consultants JCA Associates under the guidance of the nomination committee, led to the appointment of Javier Ferrn, and an internal and external search, also assisted by JCA Associates, resulted in the appointment of Domenic fide Lorenzo as Chief Financial Of cer.
JCA Associates has no other connection with the company.
Jan du Plessis Chairman of the nomination committee Tenure of the board as at 31 March 2016 02 years 5 For the first part of the year, the nomination committee was 24 years 2 chaired by John Manser until he retired as chairman and as a 46 years 3 member of the nomination committee on 23 July 2015, and 6 years 5 Jan du Plessis was appointed as chairman of the committee.
Jan du Plessis, Geoff Bible, Guy Elliott, Alejandro Santo Domingo and Helen Weir served as members throughout the year.
John Manzoni served on the committee until his retirement from the board on 23 July 2015.
Lesley Knox was appointed to the committee on 24 September 2015.
The committee considers the Balance of the board as at 31 March 2016 composition of the board and its committees, and the retirement, appointment and replacement of directors, and makes appropriate Chairman 1 recommendations to the board.
In doing so it considers diversity Executive directors 2 in terms of age, experience, gender and balance of skills on the Independent non-executives 7 board.
Currently three out of seven of the companys independent Nominated non-executives 5 non-executive directors are women, and the board comprises members from diverse backgrounds and nationalities.
The nomination and appointment of Trevor Manuel, and the nomination of Javier Ferrn for appointment at the annual general meeting in July 2015, were concluded in the last quarter of the prior year and were overseen by the nomination committee.
These two appointments concluded a sustained period of progressive renewal, with longer-standing directors standing down and new directors being appointed.
The longest-serving independent director immediately following the annual general meeting in July 2015 had six years service.
The board and the nomination committee are satis ed that the board is well balanced and that the nomination committee has effectively discharged its mandate in this regard.
The process of selecting a new chief financial of cer, resulting in the appointment of Domenic fide Lorenzo, was managed directly by the board.
64 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E The remuneration committee The corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Lesley Knox Dambisa Moyo Chairman of the remuneration committee Chairman of CARAC During the year, the remuneration committee consisted entirely Dambisa Moyo chaired the committee throughout the year.
of independent directors: Lesley Knox chairman, Mark Armour, Geoff Bible, Alan Clark and Helen Weir served as members Guy Elliott and Javier Ferrn replacing John Manzoni, who retired for the entire period.
John Manser and John Manzoni retired from from the board in July 2015.
The committee is responsible for the the committee on 23 July 2015, and Jan du Plessis and Trevor assessment and approval of remuneration strategy for the group, Manuel joined the committee on 24 September 2015. for the operation of the companys share-based incentive plans and for reviewing and approving short-term and long-term remuneration The committees objective is to assist the board in the discharge for executive directors and executive committee members.
of its responsibilities in relation to the corporate accountability, including sustainable development, corporate social responsibility The remuneration committee has implemented a strategy of and corporate social investment.
More details of the committees ensuring that employees and executives are rewarded for their activities are in the sustainable development section of this report contribution to the groups operating and financial performance and in our separate sustainable development summary report, at levels which take account of industry, market and country which is available on our website.
To ensure that executive and company goals are aligned, share incentives are considered critical elements of The CARAC met twice in the year, in May 2015 and again in March executive incentive pay.
During the year, the committee was 2016 this meeting had been scheduled for November 2015, but advised by Kepler Associates, which since June 2015 has been had to be postponed due to the AB InBev transaction.
part of the Mercer group, which also consults to the group on pensions matters.
Kepler Associates has no other connection with the company, as consultants.
Details of the companys remuneration policy and the work of the remuneration committee during the year, are in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 92.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 65 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued | Effectiveness Notwithstanding the intense focus required on the offer from AB InBev, good progress was made in addressing each of the areas identi ed in Composition of the board the prior year review that could bene t from particular focus.
Board The board continues to believe that its overall composition remains agendas were further re ned to facilitate focus on these matters, the appropriate, particularly in regard to the independence of character incoming Chief Financial Of cer introduced enhanced reporting on and integrity of all our directors, and the experience and skills they financial, operational and brand performance and the CARAC has bring to their duties.
It also believes that there is an appropriate enhanced its systematic oversight of the groups strategic focus on balance of skills, collective experience, independence, background, key licence to trade risks faced by the company.
knowledge and gender among our non-executive directors to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Information and training Our Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising the board, Independence through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
The The board considers seven directors Mark Armour, Guy Elliott, board and its committees are provided with full and timely information, Javier Ferrn, Lesley Knox, Trevor Manuel, Dambisa Moyo and Helen including detailed financial information, to enable directors to Weir to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
The board discharge their responsibilities, and for the committees to undertake considers five non-executive directors not to be independent for the their duties.
All directors have access to the advice of the Group purposes of the Code: Geoff Bible, Dinyar Devitre and Dave Beran, Company Secretary.
Independent professional advice is also available as they are nominees of Altria, the companys largest shareholder: to directors in appropriate circumstances, at the companys expense.
and Alejandro Santo Domingo and Carlos Prez, as they are During the year ended 31 March 2016 none of the directors sought nominees of Bevco, the companys second largest shareholder.
independent external advice through the company.
Under the Code, a chairman is not considered to be an independent When directors join the board, tailored induction programmes are director but is required to be independent upon appointment.
Jan du arranged which involve industry speci c training and include visits Plessis was appointed as an independent non-executive director in to the groups businesses and, as appropriate, meetings with senior September 2014 before he became Chairman in July 2015. management.
New directors are also briefed on their duties to the company and their obligations as directors of a listed company, Board, committee and director performance evaluation on risk management activities at head of ce and on relevant company Performance evaluations are carried out each year and are reported in policies and governance related matters.
The planned induction the subsequent annual report.
The board had previously intended to of new directors Javier Ferrn, Dave Beran, and Domenic fide Lorenzo conduct an externally facilitated performance evaluation early in the was tailored appropriately to take account of the AB InBev offer.
tenure of our new Chairman, Jan du Plessis.
However, as reported above, an extensive evaluation process would have absorbed The company is committed to the continuing development of directors signi cant board time and resources precisely when the board and to help them build on their expertise and develop an ever deeper management needed to focus all of their time and resources on the understanding of the business, and of the markets in which group AB InBev takeover offer, and the takeover offer would have meant that companies operate.
Members of board committees are encouraged the board would have had limited time to bene t from the findings of to attend internal and external brie ngs and courses on aspects of an external evaluation.
We have therefore conducted an internal their respective committee specialisms.
Regular updates on relevant assessment of the board and its committees, led by our Deputy legal, regulatory, corporate governance and technical developments Chairman Guy Elliott, and report more fully on this evaluation below.
are presented to committee members at each meeting and, as If for any reason the takeover offer does not proceed to completion, appropriate, to the full board.
The Chairman considers the training the board intends then to conduct an externally facilitated evaluation.
and development needs of the board and discusses these with the respective directors as necessary.
Effectiveness assessments were conducted in respect of the board and the audit and remuneration committees, and the CARAC, and Outside appointments the performance of the Chairman, individual directors and the Group Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, may serve on other Company Secretary was also evaluated.
For the board and relevant boards provided that they continue to demonstrate the requisite committees, questionnaires were prepared by the Group Company commitment to discharge their duties effectively to SABMiller.
The Secretary, and were considered by the respective board and nomination committee keeps under review the extent of directors committee members.
The views of the members of the respective other interests to ensure that their external commitments do not bodies were canvassed in full and frank discussion.
The Chairman compromise the effectiveness of the board and do not give rise to and Deputy Chairman considered and reviewed the performance con icts of interest.
The board is satis ed that the Chairman and all of individual directors and of the Group Company Secretary, while of the non-executive directors commit suf cient time to their duties the board, led by the Deputy Chairman the Chairman having recused as directors of the company.
The Chairman and the non-executive himself, reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
The effectiveness directors standing for re-election have con rmed that they have assessments concluded that the board and its committees were suf cient time to ful l their respective obligations to the company.
operating effectively, and that the performance of the Chairman, individual directors and the Group Company Secretary was in each The board rmly believes in the bene t to the group of our executive case satisfactory.
directors and members of the executive committee accepting non-executive directorships of other companies to widen their The most important task of the board in the year under review was experience and knowledge.
Accordingly, subject to the agreement of its consideration of the AB InBev offer.
The Chairmans leadership the board, executive directors and executive committee members are of the board throughout the negotiation of the offer, in particular, was permitted to accept external non-executive board appointments and considered by the board in his absence to have been exemplary.
to retain any fees from those appointments.
66 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E During the year under review none of the executive directors held any Executive committee such appointment.
Sue Clark, an executive committee member, was Excom has speci c responsibility for implementing the groups appointed on 29 February 2016 as a non-executive director of Britvic system of risk management and views the careful and appropriate plc, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Of the other management of risk as a key management role.
Excom reviews our executive committee members, Mark Bowman is a non-executive signi cant risks and subsequently reports to the board on material director of Tiger Brands Limited, a company listed on the changes and the associated mitigating actions.
Reviews of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, and Ari Mervis is a director of the effectiveness of the risk management system, and of the groups Melbourne Business School.
principal risks, were carried out by excom in October and December 2015 and in March 2016 and the summary outputs were reported to Retirement of directors the audit committee and board respectively.
The companys articles of association require that new directors are subject to election at the first annual general meeting following their Enterprise-wide risk management appointment, and that directors are subject to retirement and Managing business risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of all re-election by shareholders every three years.
The re-appointment our business activities, and is undertaken using a practical and exible of non-executive directors is not automatic.
However, the board has framework which provides a consistent and sustained approach to determined that all directors will stand for re-election annually.
Business risks, which may be strategic, operational, Independent non-executive directors who have served for nine years financial or environmental, or concern the groups reputation, are may be asked to stand for re-election but only if the board remains understood and visible.
The business context determines in each satis ed both with their performance and that nine years continuous situation the level of acceptable risk and controls.
service has not compromised their continuing independence.
Key features of the groups system of risk Accountability management remain: Risk and the board of directors group statements on strategic priorities, ethics, purpose The directors are ultimately responsible for corporate reporting, and values: risk management and internal control and for reviewing effectiveness.
clear business objectives and business principles: There is a regular schedule for the board to consider and carry out an established risk policy: a robust assessment of the groups principal risks including those a continuous process for identi cation and evaluation of which would threaten its business model, future performance, signi cant risks to the achievement of business objectives: solvency or liquidity and to review how these risks are being management processes to mitigate signi cant risks to an managed together with the mitigating actions.
The principal risks acceptable level: and uncertainties facing the group are set out on pages 16 and 17. continuing monitoring of signi cant risks and internal and These are regularly reviewed by the board, and the principal risks external environmental factors that may change our risk pro le: facing the group have been robustly assessed by the board.
and a regular review of both the type and amount of external The risk management system is designed to manage, rather than insurance purchased, bearing in mind the availability of cover, eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
There is its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
a continuous process in place for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on the signi cant risks faced by individual group companies and by the group as a whole.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the approval of the In addition to excoms regular reports to the board on key risks, annual report and accounts.
there is a process of regular reporting to the board through the audit committee on the status of the risk management process.
Strategic The Financial Reporting Council updated the provisions of the Code planning, internal audit and other risk control specialist processes on risk management and internal control in 2014.
The revised Code, are integrated into line managements risk processes and simpli ed and new guidance under it apply to SABMiller in respect of the year risk reporting.
under review and the groups risk management systems has been reviewed to ensure compliance with the revised Code and guidance.
Key reports include those that identify, assess and monitor strategic, The groups systems of risk management comply with the revised financial, reputational and operational risks in each country, division, Code and guidance.
group function and on a group basis.
Audit committee Internal control A description of the composition of the audit committee during The FRC Guidance recommends internal control practices for UK the year is included in the section dealing with the board and its listed companies to assist them in assessing the application of the committees.
Information on the responsibilities and work of the audit Codes principles and compliance with the Codes provisions with committee is set out in the audit committee report on pages 70 to 73 regard to internal control.
and includes its role in overseeing the risk management process implemented by management and advising the board in this regard.
Our systems of internal control are designed and operated to support the identi cation, evaluation and management of risks affecting the group.
These include controls in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts, and extend across all areas of operations.
They are subject to continuous review as circumstances change and new risks emerge.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 67 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued | At the half year and at the year end the members of regional and Key features of the systems of internal control are: country business executive committees, each of our functional directors legal and corporate affairs: marketing: integrated supply: the risk management system described on page 67: and human resources, each of the direct reports to the Chief Financial written policies and procedures within our businesses: Of cer finance and control: internal audit: corporate finance and clearly fide ned lines of accountability and delegations of authority: strategy: tax: treasury: and investor relations, and the head of our management of operating risk by using appropriate infrastructure procurement and global business services units including information including regional hubs and specialist group functions, controls, technology are required to submit to the Group Company Secretary systems and codi ed ways of working including standard on behalf of the board formal letters of representation on compliance project methodology and codi ed people management routines with internal controls and key policies, including the groups Code of throughout the business: Business Conduct and Ethics and Anti-Bribery Policy.
These bi-annual business continuity planning, including preventative and letters also require the noti cation of continuing or potential signi cant contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the purchase financial, regulatory, environmental or other exposures.
of insurance: maintenance of a state of preparedness towards compliance These letters form the subject of reports to the audit committee, and with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley cover all subsidiary companies, as well as MillerCoors LLC.
Certain of Act through the identi cation and testing of key financial controls our executive directors and executive committee members sit on the under our Internal Financial Control IFC programme.
This is a boards of MillerCoors LLC and of relevant holding companies within voluntary initiative, which strengthens internal control systems major associates such as CR Snow, Anadolu Efes and Castel.
and processes within the group: Directors and members of the executive committee also make annual risk management policies and procedures including segregation written declarations of interests and are obliged to report without delay of duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, financial and any potential or actual con icts of interest which may arise.
managerial review and comprehensive reporting and analysis against approved standards and budgets: Taking account of the information on principal risks and uncertainties a treasury operating framework and group treasury team, provided on pages 16 and 17, and the ongoing work of the audit accountable for all treasury activities, which establishes policies committee in monitoring the risk management and internal control and manages liquidity and financial risks, including foreign systems on behalf of the board for whom the committee provides exchange, interest rate and counterparty exposures, and regular updates as noted on page 67, the board: incorporates group and regional treasury committees that monitor these activities and compliance with the policies.
is satis ed that it has carried out a robust assessment of the Treasury policies, risk limits and monitoring procedures are principal risks facing the company including those which would reviewed regularly by the audit committee on behalf of the board: threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and a group tax policy and tax operating framework which forms the liquidity: and basis of tax governance across the group and is managed by has reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal our group tax function which monitors tax risk and implements control systems including all material financial, operational and strategies and procedures to control it, and which is also compliance controls including those relating to the financial reviewed regularly by the audit committee on behalf of the board.
reporting process and no signi cant failings or weaknesses were identi ed in the context of the group as a whole.
In the review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal Assurance on systems of internal control and their control systems the board also took into account: effectiveness is obtained through: the bi-annual review of signi cant risks, including of key mitigating an established, regular routine of management reviews and actions: performance reviews by the Chief Executive and excom, with regular business reviews completed through the year: half-yearly reporting to the board: matters arising from its oversight of tax and treasury matters: reviews and testing of key financial controls: its review and assessment of the activities of internal audit and the internal audit reviews including programme assurance for large update of items arising from the previous external assessment of its change projects: effectiveness: testing of certain aspects of the internal financial control systems the outcome of the regional finance and control assurance meetings by the external auditors during the course of their statutory and the IFC programme: examinations and regular reports to the audit committee by the the outcome of the bi-annual letters of representation process: and internal and external auditors: the observations of the external auditors.
our regional and group function finance, control and assurance committees consider the results of these reviews within each region and group function twice a year, together with feedback from country audit committees, to con rm that controls are functioning and to ensure that any material breakdowns and remedial actions have been reported to the appropriate boards of directors: and in relation to our associated undertakings and joint ventures, these matters are reviewed at the level of the associates or joint ventures boards or equivalent governing committees.
68 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E Internal audit Relations with shareholders Our global internal audit function consists of the group internal audit team, led by the Chief Internal Auditor, plus regional and country All shareholders were encouraged to attend our annual general audit functions that operate in each of the groups principal areas meeting held in July 2015, which provided the opportunity to ask of business.
The regional and country functions are centrally directed questions of the board and chairmen of all board committees.
At the by the group internal audit team.
The country internal audit functions meeting, all resolutions were put to a vote on a poll, with the results are jointly accountable to local senior finance management and being published on the companys website, and on the London and regional heads of internal audit.
They also have direct access and Johannesburg stock exchange news services.
As the geographic accountability to local audit committees and the Chief Internal Auditor.
spread of shareholders inevitably means that they cannot all attend a meeting in the UK, a lm and a full transcript of meeting proceedings Internal audit reviews, all of which are risk-based and include were published on the companys website.
Similar arrangements are provision of assurance over financial, operational, IT and planned for the 2016 annual general meeting.
transformation programme activities, are performed by teams of appropriately quali ed and experienced employees.
Third parties may We maintain a dedicated investor relations function which reports be engaged to support audit work as appropriate.
The Chief Internal to the Chief Financial Of cer.
The investor relations team builds and Auditor, who reports jointly to the audit committee and the Chief maintains long-term relationships with institutional investors and Financial Of cer, has direct right of access to, and regular meetings analysts and, in partnership with our corporate and divisional with, the audit committee chairman and prepares formal reports for management teams and within the scope of regulation, gives each audit committee meeting on the consolidated activities and key presentations on group performance and regional businesses and findings of the global internal audit function.
The audit committee also strives to ensure that these are understood across the global equity has unrestricted access to all internal audit reports, should it wish markets, including in one-to-one meetings with investors.
Dialogue on to review them.
sustainable development and socially responsible investment matters is primarily led by the General Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director Our global internal audit function uses a standardised group-wide and by the Director of Sustainable Development, who have focused internal audit methodology which is in compliance with the on meetings with interested investors and stakeholders.
International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The function operates During June 2015, our 20 largest shareholders in addition to those a formal global quality assurance and effectiveness programme.
represented on the board, and a number of other shareholders within our 50 largest shareholders who had expressed a wish to engage An annual process gathers feedback against speci c performance with the Chairman-elect, were invited to meet the Chairman-elect criteria from a broad range of executive management at the group, and Group Company Secretary to discuss any governance or other regional and country levels and from certain board members.
This issues which they wished to raise, and the invitations were taken up process, supplemented by results from the functions own quality by many of them.
These meetings were intended to provide our assurance reviews, provides a basis for the annual review of the major shareholders with the opportunity to meet and get to know effectiveness of the global internal audit function coordinated by our incoming Chairman, and vice versa, and to discuss matters the Group Company Secretary and results in a report to the audit relating to the group.
committee to support the committees formal annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal audit.
In addition, a periodic review Following the announcement of AB InBevs intention to make an of internal audit is undertaken, most recently in 2014, by an offer for SABMiller, we engaged with a large number of our major independent external consultant in accordance with the guidelines shareholders to ascertain their perspectives on an offer and the of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The audit committee has proposed terms, including the price and structure of the offer.
satis ed itself that adequate, objective internal audit assurance standards and procedures exist within the group.
Lastly, institutional and shareholder comments on the annual report are conveyed by the Group Company Secretary to the full board.
The internal audit function is responsible for facilitating the risk management and reporting processes across the group.
It also Stephen Shapiro provides assurance on the effectiveness of the process to excom, Group Company Secretary the audit committee and the board.
For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc 10 June 2016 Whistleblowing measures The group whistleblowing arrangements provide global coverage for employees and others wishing to raise concerns freely, in local languages.
All our employees have the opportunity to make con dential disclosures about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing.
No action or retaliation is permitted against any employee making a good faith report about an actual or suspected violation of SABMiller policy.
Country or regional ethics committees, the Group Company Secretary, or the General Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director, in consultation with the Chief Internal Auditor if appropriate, decide on the method and level of investigation.
The audit committee reviews the groups whistleblowing arrangements each year to assess whether they remain effective, is noti ed of all material disclosures made and receives reports on the results of investigations and actions taken.
The audit committee has the power to request further information, conduct its own inquiries or order additional action.
