CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Audit Committee Report Ray King Attendance Receiving reports from the audit Chairman, During the year, the Audit Committee committees of subsidaries.
Audit met on four occasions.
It has also met Considering and making Committee twice since the year end and Bridget recommendations to the Board McIntyre attended both meetings.
inrelation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of Member Attendance theCompanys external auditors.
Ensuring that at least once every Ray King Chairman 3 4 tenyears the audit services contract is put out to tender.
Orna NiChionna 4 4 Dear Shareholder, Monitoring, reviewing and Philip Green 4 4 I am pleased to report on the activities assessing the external auditors of the Audit Committee during the independence, effectiveness Gareth Williams 4 4 Companys second year as a FTSE and reviewing the external audit listed company.
a summary of our work during the The Company Secretary acts as Reviewing the findings of the financial year, including the formulation secretary to the Committee and attends auditwith the external auditors.
of the new viability statement.
In addition the Group Chief continue to work closely with the Risk Executive Officer, Group Chief Financial 5 Committee and refer matters to them Officer, Group Financial Controller, Chief for consideration where appropriate.
Risk Officer CRO, Head of Internal 25% Audit and representatives from our 27% external auditors attend by invitation.
Role of the Committee During the year, the Committee and Our role is to monitor the integrity of the I held private meetings with the Auditors 1 4 financial statements ofthe Group, review and Head of Internal Audit.
11% and report to the Board on significant 13% financial reporting issues and judgements, Main responsibilities and allocation and review and assess the adequacy 3 of time spent onmatters: 2 24% and effectiveness of the Companys internalfinancial controls and other Monitoring the integrity of financial internalcontrol systems.
Key: Reviewing and reporting to the 1.
Financial statements Allmembers are independent NonBoard on significant financial 2.
Internal financial controls Executive Directors.
The Board is reporting issues and judgements.
Internal Audit satisfied that I have recent and relevant Reviewing and assessing the 4. Business reviews financial experience.
Bridget McIntyre adequacy and effectiveness of 5.
External audit was appointed as a Committee member theCompanys internal financial with effect from 1January 2016 so did controls and other internal control Our terms of reference not attend any meetings during the systems including whistleblowing, Our terms of reference were reviewed financial year.
fraud detection and the prevention bythe Committee and subsequently of bribery.
approved by the Board on 24 September Approving the internal audit 2015.
These explain our role and the charter, budget and work plan authority delegated to us by the Board andreceiving regular reports.
and are available on the Saga website Monitoring and reviewing the athttp: corporate.
co. uk  of the Companys information corporate-governance and Internal Audit function, in the fromthe Company Secretary at the context of the Companys overall registered office.
70 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance What we have done during the year anti-corruption and anti-fraud, AICL: Considered resourcing within the whistleblowing andnon-audit fees.
Received feedback from the Internal Audit team, received regular Received a report at each meeting independent non-executive director reports on the work of the function inrelation to whistleblowing and the and chair of the audit committee.
and approved the Internal Audit proceedings of the Group financial Considered impact of Solvency II Charter and work plans for 2016 17. crime, data and information security and reviewed insurance reserving Considered a report from Internal committee.
Audit as a 3rd line of defence review on the effectiveness of the Groups Our work, upto the date of this annual report in accordance with the revised risk management 2nd line of Process to review the interim defence systems.
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, andfull year results published by the FRC, confirmed that no Considered the external auditors The interim and full year results were EY engagement terms for 2015 16, significant failings or weaknesses were assessed, together with papers from identified.
Where areas for improvement including the fee proposal, and made management summarising the process recommendations to the Board.
were identified, processes are in place ofpreparing the financial statements, the toensure that the necessary action is Considered the annual report planning appropriateness and application of key process and the significant risks and takenand that progress is monitored.
accounting policies, and the areas of other areas of audit emphasis significant judgement, including how During the year we received presentations identified by EY through their those judgements were made.
from the following business areas: planningwork, and their intended approach to auditing theseareas.
Key areas of significant judgement Saga Services Direct Choice Considered the Groups main which we discussed were: regulated business : accounting policies.
Received an update on activities Valuation of insurance contract Reviewed insurance reserving from the independent nonmethodology.
We considered executivedirector who chairs the actuarial processes for valuing Discussed with EY their main theaudit committee.
observations following the interim these liabilities, the levelofliabilities Received confirmation that the by accident year and by heads of and full year audit.
1st and 2nd lines of defence were Considered the effectiveness review damage, and theconclusions of the effective and that Internal Audit insurance reserving committee.
We of the external audit process and were efficient.
received the views of EY from their Considered the threat of work on the assessment of reserves, Considered our approach to the cybercrime.
viability statement and the and concluded that the valuation of insurance contract liabilities underpinning tests performed by management.
Reviewed the interim and full year results before their consideration We considered the methodology for performing impairment reviews on by the Board and considered the annual report as a whole.
the carrying value of goodwill, and considered the output of each Considered the impact and requirements of Solvency II the review, and concluded that no impairments were necessary.
European Union Insurance Directive which came into force on 1January 2016 on capital requirements.
Continued to work in co-operation with the Risk Committee on key areasof business risk, for example the threat of cybercrime.
Reviewed policies covering financial crime including anti-bribery, ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Audit Committee Report continued Reports were received from EY at the Viability statement Where Internal Audit reviews identify conclusion of their work on the interim The Groups methodology for significant areas of business risk these and full year results and during the production of its viability statement is are considered by the Risk Committee.
The reports on shown on page 69 and the viability Details of these can be found in the Risk the full year results included specific statement itself on page 53.
Committee Report on pages 74-76. focus on those areas identified as having significant audit risk or other Jointly with the Risk Committee we Since the year end, KPMG has reviewed considered and approved the list of the effectiveness of theCompanys audit emphasis.
principal risks and uncertainties see Internal Audit function.
The conclusion Fair, balanced and understandable pages 30-32 and the methodology was that the function was competent, At the request of the Board, the used to provide for an assessment effective and well led, with strong Committee has considered whether, in its of ongoing viability.
We specifically alignment to principal risks.
Focus opinion, this annual report and accounts considered: on strategy for a period of longer than is fair, balanced and understandable 12 months and more use of third party the relevant assessment time period andwhether it provides the information specialists where appropriate, were necessary for shareholders to assess the the list of principal risks and areas noted for development.
uncertainties and associated severe Groups performance, business model and strategy.
but plausible potential outcomes Auditor independence the appropriateness of the and non-audit services When forming our opinion we considered scenariosmodelled.
The independence of EY is reviewed whether: bythe Committee and confirmed by On the basis of this, we confirmed to the Auditor throughout the year.
the report was clear with an the Board that we felt it was reasonable understandable layout, with key for the Directors to make the viability A robust non-audit fee policy is in place messages given suitable prominence statement on page 53. and is adhered to.
This is reviewed the report was fair and presented annually and was last reviewed on Internal control and Internal Audit abalanced picture 21September 2015.
This includes the reporting on the business A key part of our work is the oversight of alistof non-audit services where we the Internal Audit function.
This includes segments in the narrative was aresatisfied EY can carry out those consistent with the reporting in the reviewing the results of the internal services without jeopardising their role auditors work and the assurance from financial statements as Auditor.
There are clear approval the key performance indicators were Internal Audit on its 3rd line of defence levels where the Committee Chairman review of the functioning of the risk disclosed at an appropriate level or the whole Committee is required statutory and adjusted measures were management framework.
We also to authorise assignments.
Competitive reviewand monitor managements explained clearly tendering isused for substantial work.
the significant issues and key responsiveness to the internal auditors findings and recommendations.
The The audit fees payable to EY in respect judgements referred to in the narrative reporting were consistent function consists of 12 people with a broad of the year ended 31 January 2016 range of skills: we also purchase audit were1,055,000 2015: 1,110,000 and with the disclosures set out in the financial statements and that these skills externally for specialised audits.
non-audit service fees incurred were 176,200 2015: 930,900.
This matched the risks that EY were We are satisfied that the Internal Audit planning on including in their report.
equates to a non-audit to audit fee function had the appropriate resources ratioof 0.17 2015: 0.84.
We advised the Board that we feesinclude work necessary for supported the statement made listingthe Company.
A summary of fees paid to the Auditor is set out in note 4a to the consolidated financial statements on page 137.
72 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Effectiveness of external auditors External audit tendering Actions for 2016 17 We discussed managements EY were appointed as auditors of the Looking ahead, we will focus on: interactions with the audit partner principal trading companies within the the audit tender process during the year and impressions Acromas group in September 2007 gained.
We considered: following a competitive audit tender reviewing the implications of the Audit Regulation and Directive process.
They were then appointed our perception of the Auditors asauditors of the Company on effective from June 2016, including understanding and insights into the impact on non-audit services 24September 2014.
In accordance with the Groups business model the Competition and Markets Authoritys continuing to review the how EY approached key areas effectiveness of the Groups internal order which requires FTSE 350 companies of judgement and the extent to tender the audit at least every ten years, controls and assurance procedures of challenge reviewing levels of resource within the Group intends to undertake its next the quality of the Auditors reporting competitive tender process later this the finance function, to ensure that to the Committee and their overall all business areas benefit from a year for the financial year ending efficiency 31January 2018. strong finance resource input from management via a ensuring that Internal Audit continue questionnaire on the efficiency Effectiveness of the Committee to be involved in projects at the and conduct of the audit.
Evaluation outset to ensure strategic input at An evaluation of the Committees an early stage.
During the year, a review of EYs 2015 effectiveness took place during the audit of the Company was completed year, as part of the Board effectiveness bythe Audit Quality Review team ofthe review for details see page 63.
was an internal review with the support The results of this review were of Independent Audit Limited.
The discussed and minor improvements to Committee received very positive Ray King theexternal audit process for future feedback and it was felt that there Chairman, Audit Committee years were subsequently agreed.
wasa strong relationship between the Executive Team and the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the audit Afully externally facilitated review will continues to be effective and provides take place this year.
an appropriate independent challenge to the Groups senior management.
External audit re-appointment andtendering Auditor re-appointment At the AGM last year EY were re-appointed as our statutory auditors.
The Committee believes the independence and objectivity of EY and the effectiveness of the audit process remain strong, and recommends the re-appointment of EY for the 2016 17 financial year.
The Board has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 73
