Corporate responsibility Doing business the right way At Sage we believe in doing business the right way.
This means supporting our stakeholders in every area of business, which is embedded into our strategy and one Sage culture.
Engaging with our stakeholders Customers Colleagues Small to medium businesses and entrepreneurs, we keep our Att racting and retaining the right people is essential at Sage.
customers at the heart of everything we do at Sage.
Our strategic Wetreat our colleagues with respect and encourage collaboration pillars are aligned to provide the best service to the customer through the one Sage strategic pillar.
andwe engage frequently with our Small & Medium Business Communication to colleagues is incredibly important and community.
In July 2016 we hosted thousands business builders in leadership engage with colleagues regularly and holistically Chicago for four days the biggest ever meeting of entrepreneurs.
through colleague calls and video conferences, internal social networks and town hall meetings down to small reside chats with the CEO.
Read more about how we are supporting our Read more about how we recognise our people customers on page 58 on page 54 Communities The wider environment Our communities are important to us and we want to see In addition to adhering to local laws we are committ ed to reducing them thrive.
Sage Foundation was established in June 2015 and energy use and increasing recycling.
provides an opportunity for Sage to engage with and give back to the community.
Read about how we engage with our local Read more about how we are managing our communities on page 60 environmental impact on page 62 52 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 People Why is doing This motivates our colleagues and business the right helps att ract and retain the best talent way important?
Doing business the Sage Way is embedded within our strategy.
Community Customers We believe that engaging with We invest in our This then drives excellent our stakeholders and providing community through customer service and the best possible service leads Sage Foundation encourages innovation to a more successful company with stronger returns that can be returned to investors and Investors reinvested into our stakeholder This provides strong community.
revenue growth and returns to investors and the community relating to the Code of Conduct to language requiring suppliers to comply Board reporting ensure that any additional business with applicable anti-slavery and human Our Corporate Responsibility CR commitments or client and supplier tra cking legislation, including the policy has been endorsed by the Board, relationships they may have are clear Modern Slavery Act 2015.
We are which isupdated on CR risks and and transparent.
currently reviewing our entire opportunities by the Company Secretary.
procurement process and will be introducing speci c measures through Modern slavery Ethics our Procurement Life Cycle Policy to Sage recognises and respects all We are committ ed to conducting ensure that our obligations under the human rights as fide ned in the United business in an honest and ethical Act are passed through our supply Nations Universal Declaration of manner.
We act according to our chain.
Our Procurement team will Human Rights.
In accordance with Codeof Conduct, which is integral to beeducated in the Act and we will therequirements of the Modern us and sets out a range of principles introduce key control points on modern Slavery Act 2015, we have published weadhere to.
In particular, we do not slavery during our diligence, selection astatement sett ing out what steps we tolerate bribery and corruption and and contracting process.
have taken to ensure that slavery and arecommitt ed to acting professionally, human tra cking are not taking place fairly and with integrity in all our We are committ ed to conducting every in any of our supply chains or any part business dealings and relationships.
aspect of our business with honesty, of our business.
This Board-approved We enforce e ective systems and integrity and openness, respecting statement is available on our website, processes to counter bribery and human rights and the interests of our with a link visible from our homepage.
corruption and we continue to create employees, customers and third parties, new ways for colleagues to anonymously as detailed in our Code of Conduct.
Our procurement processes and report any related concerns.
policies, and relationships with our suppliers, are key to ensuring our Data protection As a UK company, The Sage Group plc awareness of impacts through our We take data security and privacy is bound by the laws of the UK, including supply chain.
We aim to ensure that seriously.
Customer data is handled the Bribery Act 2010, in respect of our goods and services originate from sensitively, with respect, and in a way conduct both at home and abroad.
In sources that do not jeopardise human that complies, as a minimum, with the addition, we will uphold all laws relevant rights, safety, or the environment, requirements of data protection laws in to countering bribery and corruption in andexpect our suppliers to observe the countries in which we operate and, all the jurisdictions inwhich we operate.
business principles consistent with our where appropriate, regional legislation.
As well as ensuring our own conduct own.
During the year, we have analysed We also work with local legislative isappropriate, we have also put in our supplier base across the Group to bodies and data protection agencies placeprocedures to prevent bribery understand where the risk in the supply and continuously look to strengthen being committ ed on our behalf by any chain may be from a modern slavery our systems and procedures.
associated persons, particularly in our perspective.
Our standard form subsidiaries, and third parties we work procurement contracts include with.
Our leaders sign a declaration The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 53
