People continued entrepreneurs a growing customer Induction microsite High performance culture Developing leaders group for Sage.
With this in mind, Sage accessed over Transparent alignment is crucial for Sage has hired new leaders and now measures its Talent Brand and high performance.
Sage already has promoted others internally to has over 765Kfollowers on social one performance review process leadership positions.
In the context mediamore likely to engage with thatallows for the evaluation of what ofalignment, it is fundamental that 10,000 Sageas future talent.
is achieved and how it is achieved leadership understands expectations aligned to Sage strategy and values.
and has the con dence and skills to times Sage has built consistent induction execute the strategy.
In addition to the processes to on-board new hires to Sage has developed this further with training alreadyavailable through Sage astandard whichincludes knowledge the introduction of a new process: Academy online learning resource, 90% ofSage ofthe Sage story, customers, products Vision Strategy Goals and Measures Sage introduced the transformational colleagues are and required governance training VSGM.
This process starts from the leadership model Align, Model, Coach active on LinkedIn including the Code of Conduct.
CEO VSGM integral to the business and Reinforce AMCR, giving a focus planning process, and through a series tothe critical leadership skills required Apprenticeship schemes operate of facilitated meetings runs through during transformation.
Development across the business including the business to ensure vertical and investment this year included coaching Germany, the UK & Ireland and they horizontal collaboration and alignment and performance management skills area key source of building internal to the results required.
VSGM isused in for the top 100colleagues and a talent.
The UK & Ireland has sponsored operational forums to regularly review bespoke Executive Development 100 apprentices over the past two Winner of the progress against plans.
Outcomes Programme for the top 40 in senior yearsand was recognised for its Employability & fromthis process will be taken into leadership positions, equipping them achievements in October 2016 by Diversity Award theperformance review process, for the next phase of transformation.
winning a prestigiousNational at the CIPD andachievement linked to reward.
Awards 2016 In 2017 the investment continues In addition to the Platinum Elite withthe launch of the Leading at Sage incentive that recognises high programme for the next 2,000 leaders, performance top sales performers ensuring they too have the leadership andthose that support them, Sage skills for sustainable transformation.
willintroduce a new share plan in 2017 The programme will provide a licence giving all colleagues the opportunity to lead at Sage.
In 2017 further investment will be toshare in collective success.
These madein training for sales, sales support incentive programmes are in addition and professional services across the Building capability to annual bonus schemes, the sales Att racting millennial talent is important Company to fuel progress in the compensation plans and the strategic pillars customers for life for Sage not only as a technology longer-term performance plans company but to represent and andwinning in the market.
Sagehas inplace to recognise understand the needs of millennial andreward performance.
Year-end employee count split by region Group and North central Europe America International operations Total 2015 7,355 2,505 3,652 190 13,702 2016 7,017 2,580 3,891 273 13,761 Board diversity Top leadership diversity Total workforce diversity Male Male Male Female Female Female 21% 25% 48% 52% 75% 79% Top leadership includes the Sage senior management team top 100 leaders plus any individual who is a company director of a Group Subsidiary.
56 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Bethany joined Sage in September 2015 as an Bethany Robertson apprentice supporting the Peoplefunction.
People Services The last 12 months have been an exciting journey for her Apprentice, both personally and professionally.
Bethany left full time Newcastle-upon-Tyne education unsure about what she wanted to do next.
She feels incredibly fortunate to have been o ered a head start in her career with a worldwide technology company, and in June Bethany was one of three apprentices who Stephen genuinely got to spend the day shadowing Stephen Kelly.
Bethany is now considering developing a career in Sages People cares about our function and completing a formal quali cation in Human opinions and to Resource Management.
In October 2016 Bethany was spend the day with nominated as a nalist for a WIN Award which him provided a recognises the achievements of business women in the fantastic insight into North East of England.
commitments of time, funds, expertise Diversity and inclusion Colleague engagement and technology, to create sustainable Sage believes that diverse teams Communicating a compelling vision of social, economic and entrepreneurial andequal opportunity drive high the future mobilises colleagues during opportunity.
Sage colleagues can take performance and innovation and that transformation.
This is practised by Sage up to five days to volunteer for causes aculture of diversity and inclusion is leadership who hosted an inspirational they feel passionately about and they vital for a sustainable business.
Sage Kick O at the beginning of the have embraced this wholeheartedly has ensuredpolicies and procedures financial year in all markets, making with a growing momentum of support these principles.
Training for leadership VSGM visible and outlining volunteering through the year.
This existing and new colleagues is the priorities and plans for the year Corporate Philanthropy provides a arranged and Action Groups have ahead.
Progress is shared at regular sense of purpose for colleagues that beencreated to lead local priorities.
campus All Hands sessions: these are goes beyond work itself: giving back Increasing women in technology complemented by the two way Sage tosociety and building the experiences andleadership roles is a particular Live broadcasts, hosted by the CEO, that develop leadership, empathy and focus with a target of 35% female every two weeks keeping colleagues collaboration.
Future focus will see representation in the Senior abreast of the latest developments for Sage Foundation working to support Management Team by FY18.
customers and partners including women, youth and military veterans product innovations and to celebrate In June 2016, Sage received the and also engaging customers and success.
They include an open Q&A Employability and Diversity Award partners in its activities.
Connecting session to the CEO and other guests fromthe Chartered Institute of colleagues, customers and allenabled through technology.
Personnel and Development to communities like this nurtures recognise signi cant progress.
Sage Foundation launched in January astrongand cherished culture.
2016 with a Charter to transform the Initiatives through the year included lives of those disadvantaged in our the celebration of International communities by serving them with Womens Day when thousands ofcolleagues participated through technology connecting members ofthe Executive Committ ee with a I joined Sage in February 2016 excited about the opportunity to create femaleentrepreneur and customer something amazing and di erent to support the next generation of sharing her story.
My idea to create Pegg see case study on page 22 the 50 50 Technology Challenge with Baroness Martha Lane Fox CBE when received the backing of the Executive Committ ee almost immediately female entrepreneurs pitched ideas andwas launched within a few weeks.
Sage have ambitions to disrupt forinvestment and later that month, themarket with their passion for innovation.
I know I have made the onbehalf of the UK Government, Sage hosted and participated in a forum for rightdecision joining the organisationand Im excited about whats next.
businesses to identify initiatives to support working parents.
Many Sage Kriti Sharma colleagues participated in both events.
Director Product Management The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 57 Championing small business Doing business the right way: championing entrepreneurs Small & Medium Businesses make up 99% of all businesses, and create two thirds of all jobs.
They drive prosperity and keep our economy alive and vibrant.
And to do that, they make sacri ces: we know that many business builders around the world work more than 70 hours per week: half usually work weekends and 70% of entrepreneurs have invested their life savings or re-mortgaged their homes to fund their businesses.
These are the sacri ces they make personalities rather than actual facts, Kellycalled out the World Economic tofuel the engine room of the we provided a platform for Small Forums agship event about being globaleconomy.
&Medium Businesses to bett er only for old men from big businesses.
understand how in or out could And we believe this contribution The issues holding our customers back impact their business, allowing them deserves recognition.
We think the are similar around the world red tape, tomake a truly informed choice.
barriers that hold small businesses outdated taxes, nding the right talent back should be addressed so that we Following the Brexit vote, Sage and skills, and access to funding.
Our can unlock their economic potential.
continued this campaign with a #AltDavos campaign was all about powerful PR and social media content procuring ideas from small businesses As a company that started small and push to balance the rhetoric around around the world on what their agenda grew beyond what seemed possible, Britains future.
News coverage for a small business Davos event would wefeel responsible for giving these post-June 23rd in general was negative, include to start cracking some of the business builders a voice.
scaremongering and unhelpful and perennial issues they face.
We did this many politicians did not exhibit the by running research with customers Giving Small & Medium calm, strong, con dent leadership and asking them to submit their ideas Businesses a seat at the table required to allay small businesses on Twitt er.
Throughout a year of signi cant fears in CEO Stephen Kellys words The international nature of the change in the global economy and ina LinkedIn blog, theyd left the pitch.
campaign saw blogs from our leaders political outlook, Sage has championed Sage stepped in to ask for calm and all over the world read by over 5,000 the voice of the worlds Small & Medium clarity, and tried to provide clear people, and the #AltDavos hashtag Businesses, and given them a seat at examples of potential policy changes received 4 million estimated impressions the table in conversations where their that might a ect entrepreneurs.
from 941 Twitt er mentions from 424 views are regularly neglected.
Here This campaign was well received, with unique users.
There was also appetite arethe campaigns where we helped coverage in top tier media such as the from press all over the world, with them to shout louder and get their Financial Times, Business Insider and media from Nigeria to Hungary using views heard.
We ran a series of blogs on Stephens comments.
thetopic from our CEO Stephen Kelly, EU Referendum which received over 15,000 views and Public a airs in Spain In the lead up to the EU Referendum, 2,500 likes.
This response demonstrates A crucial part of our role in championing we held two panel events with a the appetite and appreciation of a Small & Medium Businesses is to work viewtogiving small businesses the positive voice among scaremongering closely with governments, using our opportunity to ask business leaders and negative statements about the voice to ensure business builders are and policymakers the questions that economy that were starting to recognised at the most senior levels, matt ered to them, and actually get becomea self-ful lling prophecy.
and the issues they face are front of some answers.
The panels were made mind when it comes to amending or up of the likes of Anna Soubry, Minister Davos creating new policies.
of State for small business, Industry Our CEO, Stephen Kelly, boycott ed and Enterprise and Emma Jones, small Our Sage Spain team has continued Davos this year in a bid to raise business expert and head of Enterprise tobuild a great connection with the awareness of the fact that it is an Nation, and chaired by top media hosts Spanish Government this year.
The eventonly open to big business Steph McGovern from BBC Breakfast team has cultivated relationships with leaders, and does not represent the and Sky News Ian King.
In front of a live several departments that impact small needs of small businesses despite audience of entrepreneurs, panellists businesses, including the Ministry of theirimportance tothe global discussed the practical impact the Industry, Ministry of Treasury and economy not to mention its startling votes outcome could have on small Ministry of Social Security.
In a referendum campaign interview with Business Insider, Thanks to these relationships, which lacked focus and clarity and members of the Sage team have been focused too much on political invited to participate in several 58 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Sage Summit Sage Summit 2016 was the worlds largest conference for Loved participating in Chicagos #SageSummit entrepreneurs.
We gathered 15,000 business builders in Chicago this morning, always so inspiring to be in a room forfour days of networking, education, inspiration and awesome, full of brilliant entrepreneurs.
Sage Summit featured a packed agenda, with some of the worlds most famous business leaders and stars Gwyneth Paltrow ofentertainment from Sir Richard Branson to Gwyneth Paltrow toThe Killers.
The four-day event hosted at the McCormick Centre in Chicago with more square footage than 16 American football pitches That was stunning thanks @Sage Summit@ saw 600 product sessions and workshops that focused on the SKellyCEO we were #inspired #educated future of tech, giving thoughts on whats next to enable businesses #mentored #connected#entertained!
Looking to drive success, work more e ciently and create a bett er customer experience.
There was also a mentoring neighborhood forward to 2017!
where att endees could go for 1:1 business mentoring.
Partner, Pinnacle The response and feedback from att endees was phenomenal not only was this Sages largest Summit to date, but also the largest event ever held for entrepreneurs.
engagement with over 15,000 game Helping small businesses overcome Forexample, Sage Spains legal team the bureaucratic monster in players, an average dwell time of 17 consulted with the Ministry of Social minutes on the online hub, an uplift Germany Security on the new social security Sage will always call on governments of143% more social tra c on Sage system contributions, putt ing Sage Germanys channels as well as over toimprove the environment for small inagreat position to develop systems businesses, but in the meantime we 700pieces of press coverage.
that would be bene cial for our Small also want to help by giving advice &Medium Business customers.
The onhow they can bett er manage Supporting start-up programmes Ministry of Treasury also invited Sage self-in icted cumbersome processes.
We dont just talk about supporting Spain to consult on its Information start-ups and entrepreneurs: weve Sage Germany has a long tradition Systems for the implementation of the invested in programmes all overthe ofhelping small businesses simplify Plan to Combat Fraud in Spain.
Sages globe that support budding bureaucratic burdens, and making successful proposal to introduce the entrepreneurs, for example: entrepreneurs lives easier thanks to mandatory use of Standard Audit File our soft ware and services.
To go a We partnered with The Start-up Van for Tax SAF-T in soft ware systems stepfurther, Sage established the London to run a pop-up studio, giving really helps Small & Medium Brokratie monster red tape campaign businesses the opportunity to att end Businesses, because they can now to highlight how bureaucracy can be Sage Summit and raise their pro le usetools to improve the quality of their managed, particularly by younger atthe event.
data for analysis of accounting and tax entrepreneurs who are just starting information, saving them time.
It also We sponsor the Union Des Auto upand arent necessarily aware of means they can exchange information Entrepreneurs in France, helping howthey can create lean processes.
easily with auditors and advisors.
bringcontent, networking, a code of To raise awareness of the campaign, ethics and perhaps most importantly This is a great example of how Sage Sage Germany created a dedicated aplatform for French entrepreneurs.
iswalking the talk, and pushing those online hub for entrepreneurs to visit, in power to create the best possible We gave Portuguese entrepreneurs including an interactive game, a blog, environment for entrepreneurs to theopportunity to pitch their business videos and a detailed report outlining growand thrive.
idea and win funding as part of the burdens of red tape, which was Start-up Lisboa.
unveiled at a press conference in Frankfurt.
The duration of the campaign was 18 months in total, and during this time it achieved incredibly high The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 59 Sage Foundation Doing business the right way: delivering opportunities for local communities The team at Sage is passionate about doing business the right way and supporting local communities in the regions in which the business operates.
Not only does the Company believe that this enables colleagues to build new skills and capabilities that can be transferred back to their day job, but more importantly they know that it really matt ers that colleagues give back to the local communities where they live and work.
Sage Foundation The Invictus Games One Sage Our 2 2 2 model In 2016, Sage rea rmed and expanded In 2016, we launched our partnership its commitment to support local with the Invictus Games for the first communities through the launch time as we embarked on our own ofSage Foundation.
Through Sage journey to work with many special In 2016, we Foundation the business aims to heroes around the world.
In celebration 2 recognised transform lives by investing time, of our inaugural year, we assembled a foundation days money, expertise and technology to worldwide team of over 50 superstar as a strategic create sustainable social, economic colleagues who led the way by KPI and entrepreneurial opportunity in volunteering with Sage Foundation 2% of time localcommunities: helping people andhelped todeliver the Games 5 days per person per year reach their fullestpotential.
Sage Since its launch, Sage Foundation has Volunteers just like Senior Soft ware foundation days gone from strength to strength, and is Developer, Brendan McCarthy from volunteered in now live in all of Sages 23 countries Dublin: I was shocked, grateful and 2016 across theglobe.
humbled to be chosen as Sage 13,000 Foundations European volunteer at Over the course of FY16, there have 2 theInvictus Games.
Through sport, been many successes, including: 3,500 Ihave accomplished so much and colleagues giving back thousands of Colleagues who ithasmade me a happier and more hours to support local community took part in July con dent individual.
It was my turn to 2% of free cash ow projects in July and August alone, from and August 2016 help our wounded warriors to rise up Grants, donations assisting at a local foodbank in London, and achieve new goals through the to investing their time to mentor and 3,500 power of sport.
train young entrepreneurs in Madrid, toover 1,500 hours spent giving back inBrazil in one week alone.
This Hours spent worldwide campaign mobilised one giving back in Sage and is a statement of intent for Brazil in 1 week where Sage Foundation will go inFY17.
alone 2 1,500 2 product licences Supported by a further 50% discount on additional licences andservices 60 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Doing business the right way supporting our heroes I had the pleasure of volunteering for these games It was a pleasure to get the opportunity to work with and it was very inspiring to see people with disabilities Sage employees from around the world.
It was an accomplish things that Ive seen able bodied people inspirational and humbling experience.
Try swimming 100metres with only one stars were the athletes and their families.
limb, or with your eyes covered.
Laura Muoz Bieber Brendan McCarthy, Senior Soft ware Developer In addition to providing financial The Sage Foundation grant was given Sage and the Penreach support to the organisation, 60 Sage to a speci c project, Employment for Asifundze Literacy project colleagues spent three hours a week the most vulnerable, which is aimed The Penreach Asifundze Literacy volunteering with the project, and a atincreasing employability for socially project is an outreach programme with total of 2,540 people have bene ted so disadvantaged young people, especially a mission to create an environment far from the Sage Foundation funding in the most economicallyand socially where all South Africans can achieve and volunteering.
In 2016, they were awarded a Sage Foundation grant The grant has enabled the team to of 2,500 to help improve community Tomillo Foundation help35 young people improve their involvement in the project, and increase Tomillo Foundation has worked for employability and give them bett er availability and use of reading materials 30years to improve living conditions self-awareness and knowledge of outside school.
The grant was used to ofthose people in a situation of special opportunities open to them.
The purchase new materials for reading social vulnerability, mainly through development of these skills has a camps, which has re-energised the training and employment, networking knock-on e ect on the rest of these learners and will help sustain the with social agents of the community, young peoples lives: by increasing camps into the future.
It also gave public administrations and social theirchances of nding a job, the thecore team funds to run a day-long organisations.
unemployment rates of the area training and fide-brie ng session for the decrease, family life improves and volunteers, who all provided invaluable thereis a bett er image of the information on how the project is youngsters within their impacting their communities.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 61 Environment Doing business the right way: Proactively managing our impact We aim to reduce the energy our business uses and make the most of recycling opportunities.
Wecomply with local laws as a minimum standard and Sage continues to take part in the global Carbon Disclosure Project.
Greenhouse gas emissions Organisational boundary and Methodology This section includes our mandatory responsibility The methodology used to calculate reporting of greenhouse gas emissions We report our emissions data using an ouremissions is based on the pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 operational control approach to fide ne Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Strategic Report and Directors Report our organisational boundary which including mandatory greenhouse Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
meets the fide nitional requirements gas emissions reporting guidance We include this reporting data here in ofthe Regulations in respect of those June 2013 issued by the Department order to provide a complete Corporate emissions for which we are responsible.
We have reported on all material A airs DEFRA.
We are also using emission sources for which we deem DEFRAs 2016 conversion factors ourselves responsible.
These sources for the UKcombined with the IEA Reporting period align with our operational control and international conversion factors for Our reporting year is the same as our financial control boundaries.
We do CO emission factors from electricity 2 scal year, being 1 October 2015 to 30 nothave responsibility for any emission generationwithin our reporting September 2016.
This greenhouse gas sources that are beyond the boundary methodology.
In some cases, we reporting year has been established to of our operational control.
For example, have extrapolated total emissions by align with our financial reportingyear.
business travel other than by car utilising available information from part including, for example, commercial of a reporting period and extending ights is not within our operational it to apply to the full reporting year.
control and, therefore, is not For example, this has occurred where considered to be ourresponsibility, supplier invoices for the full reporting however we aim to raise awareness year were not available prior to the ofthe impact of business travel publication of this years Annual through our travel booking policy.
For further details, our methodology document can be found at htt p: www.
com media group les  2016 final.
Global greenhouse gas emissions data For period 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 Tonnes of CO 2 Emissions from equivalent CO e 2 FY16 FY15 FY14 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 9,880 10,887 9,238 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 13,877 15,078 15,796 Companys chosen intensitymeasurement: Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes of CO e 2 per total GBP 1,000,000revenue 15.14 18.09 19.16 62 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Carbon emissions Scope of reported emissions Baseline for 2016 targets Reducing carbon and waste Emissions data has been reported The 2013 data forms the baseline We have continued to make a for all the Groups operations in datafor subsequentperiods.
concerted e ort to reduce our Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, carbon footprint, through reducing France, Germany, Ireland, Malaysia, our consumption andpurchasing Carbon Disclosure Project Morocco, North America, Poland, alternative sources of fuel and We once again took part in this Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, generation, speci cally: project during the year under review Spain, Switzerland, the United by reporting our gas scope 1 and Increased use of bioethanol for Arab Emirates and theUK.
electricity scope 2 emissions for the business travelfuel financial year ended 30 September The emissions that have not been Investing in new technology with 2016.
Whilst we do use the GHG included in this years report relate lower energy consumption including Protocol methodology to measure tobuilding usage in our operations in laptops andworkstations our GHG emissions we welcome Belgium and the United Arab Emirates, Selected o ce moves to more the revised treatment of purchased where energy usage is not itemised on energy e cientbuildings electricity to provide greater clarity invoices.
We will be working with our over purchased green and low carbon Further installation of LED lighting suppliers in these locations to capture electricity.
Market-based residual across theGroup this information in the 2016 17 factors have not been used for this reportingyear.
Increased low carbon energy reporting phase as it is not currently sourcing, including hydropower, wind possible to calculate a market based power, biomass and solar Intensity ratio purchased electricity emissions value: In order to express our annual Self generation including solar however we intend to calculate and emissions in relation to a quanti able panels and hydroelectricplant.
report within our 2017 CDP submission, factor associated with our activities, we where market residual factors have used revenue in our intensity ratio areavailable.
calculation as this is the most relevant indication of our growth and provides for a good comparative measure overtime.
Total CO e by type Sum of CO e tonnes 2 2 Combustion of fuel and Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities operation of facilities Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 8,400 4,050 Europe 5,586 1,043 International 42% 437 4,241 North America 58% 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 14,000 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 63 Directors approval of strategic report Our 2016 Strategic report, from page 1 to page 63, has been reviewed andapproved by the Board of Directors on29 November 2016.
Steve Hare Chief Financial O cer 64 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Chairmans introduction to corporate governance Sound governance is integral to Sage achieving its ambition Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code Throughout the financial year ended 30September 2016 and to the date of this report, Sage has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the UK Financial Reporting Council at www.
This corporate governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts describes how we have applied the principles of the Code.
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, The Board of the Company is committ ed to enable it to exercise its judgement over these executive team and allowing independent ensuring that it provides e ective leadership matt ers.
It must also evidence appropriate input from the .
and promotes uncompromising ethical process.
There is a very ne distinction One of the consequences of both increasing standards.
One of the ways in which the between the approval of processes and their the watchdog role of the Board and nding Board achieves this is by requiring that fide nition.
Only exceptionally would the Board this balance between individuality and team good governance principles and practices intervene to initiate orde ne.
behaviour is driving more and more Boards to are adhered to throughout the Company.
The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
have fewer and fewer executive directors.
In The Board determined that the following The way in which it conducts itself, its att itude our circumstances, the reduced Board size isahelpful summary of itsrole.
to ethical matt ers, its fide nition of success and works e ectively and an appropriate balance Good governance is about helping to run the assessment of appropriate risk, all fide ne isstruck.
It involves ensuring that the atmosphere within which the executive Notwithstanding the tensions created by many ane ective internal framework of systems teamworks.
external expectations, which may be wholly or andcontrols is put in place which clearly Good corporate governance is not about in part unrealistic, a successful Board should, fide fines authority and accountability and adhering to codes of practice although ideally, be composed of a diverse group of promotes success whilst permitt ing the respected, experienced and competent people adherence may constitute a part of the management ofrisk to appropriatelevels.
evidence of good governance but rather who coalesce around a common purpose of promoting the long-term success of the It also involves the exercise of judgement about the exercise of a mindset to do what is as tothe fide nitions of success for the right.
One of the challenges facing any Board Company, provide a uni ed vision of the fide nitions of success and appropriate risk, Company, the levels of risk we are willing to isthe way in which the non-executive and the take to achieve that success and the levels executive directors interact.
It is clear that they endeavour to support management i. e. those who honestly criticise at times but encourage of delegation to the executive.
The exercise each have the same legal responsibility but it of this judgement is the responsibility of is generally unrealistic to expect executive all the time and who create con dence in all stakeholders in the integrity of thebusiness.
the Board and involves consideration of directors to speak individually with the same processesand assumptions as well as freedom as the non-executive directors.
It also involves the creation Equally, executive directors who just toe the of a sensitive interface for the views of executive line in contradiction to their own shareholders and other stakeholders to views may not be e ectively contributing to be given appropriate consideration when good governance.
A well-functioning Board reaching these judgements.
needs to nd the right balance between hearing the collective executive view, being The executive team is required to provide such Donald Brydon, CBE aware of the natural internal tensions in an information to the Board as the Board needs to Chairman The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 65 Board of Directors Knowledge and experience Donald Brydon 71 Stephen Kelly 54 Steve Hare 55 Ruth Markland 63 Chairman Chief Executive O cer Chief Financial O cer Senior Independent Executive Director Executive Director Non-executive Director N R A N R Appointed to theBoard: Appointed to theBoard: Appointed to theBoard: Appointed to theBoard: 6 July 2012 5 November 2014 3 January 2014 13 September 2006 Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Donald Brydon had a 20 year Stephen Kelly has over 30 Prior to joining Sage, Steve Hare Ruth Markland has over 30 years career with Barclays Group, years leadership experience in was Operating Partner and experience of international during which time he was the Small & Medium Business Co-Head of the Portfolio Support services businesses, and has Chairman and Chief Executive of and technology sectors.
He Group at the private equity rm helda number of non-executive BZW Investment Management, has previously served as Apax Partners, which he joined director positions.
She joined followed by 15 years with the AXA Chief Executive O cer of two in2009.
Before his work at Apax Fresh elds in 1977 and served Group, including the posts of high-growth, public soft ware Partners, he built over 10 years asManaging Partner of Asia at Chairman and Chief Executive of companies NASDAQ listed experience leading the finance Fresh elds Bruckhaus Deringer AXA Investment Managers and Chordiant Soft ware, Inc. from function for three listed UK from 1996 to 2003.
She also Chairman of AXAFramlington.
2001 to 2005 and LSE listed companies culminating as CFO served as the Chairman of the Micro Focus International plc for FTSE 100 company Invensys Board of Trustees at the WRVS He has formerly chaired the from 2006 to 2010.
London Metal Exchange, was appointed Chief Operating 2004 and 2006 Steve was Group Amersham plc, Taylor Nelson Areas of expertise O cer for UK Government Finance Director for Spectris plc, Sofres plc, the ifs School of Finance, Ruth Marklands legal where he was the most senior the FTSE 250 precision Smiths Group plc, Royal Mail plc background, combined with her executive responsible for the instrumentation and controls and EveryChild.
Donald has also extensive experience of services UK Governments E ciency & company and from 1997 to 2003 served as Senior Independent businesses, bring a unique Reform agenda, including Digital, he was with Marconi plc, serving Director of Allied Domecq perspective to the discussions Commercial, ITand Small & as CFO from2001.
ofthe Board and its Committ ees.
Steve Hare quali ed as a Areas of expertise Other Areas of expertise chartered accountant in 1985 Donald Brydon brings to the currentappointments: Stephen brings to the Board withErnst & Whinney, now part Board his wealth of experience Deloitt e LLP Independent over30 years leadership ofErnst & Young LLP.
gained as Chairman of companies Non-executive board member experience in high growth across a wide range of sectors.
Areas of expertise technology businesses ranging Arcadis NV member of the Since being appointed as Chairman Steve Hare has signi cant from start-ups to listed multiSupervisory Board of Sage, Donald Brydon has financial, operational and national companies, in the UK conducted a comprehensive transformation experience which and USA.
His passion for review of the composition of includes driving change programs entrepreneurs and technology, theBoard and Committ ees and in a number of his previous roles.
and the role they play in driving navigated the Company and This experience allows him to economic prosperity, lie at the Board through signi cant change.
ensure Sage continues to perform heart of the transformation we strongly whilst delivering the aredriving at Sage.
currentappointments: London Stock Exchange Group Plc Chairman Medical Research Council Chairman 66 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Key to committ ees Changes to theBoard: A Audit and Risk Committ ee There were no changes to the Board of Directors in FY16.
Ruth Markland and Inna Kuznetsova will both be standing down from the Board N Nomination Committ ee aft er the Annual General Meeting in February 2017.
R Remuneration Committ ee Inna Kuznetsova 48 Jonathan Howell 54 Drummond Hall 67 Neil Berkett 61 Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director A N R A N R A N R A N R Appointed to theBoard: Appointed to theBoard: Appointed to theBoard: Appointed to theBoard: 6 March 2014 15 May 2013 1 January 2014 5 July 2013 Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Inna Kuznetsovais former Chief Jonathan Howellis currently Drummond Hall was previously Neil Berkett has over 30 years Commercial O cer and Executive Group Finance Director of Close Chief Executive of Dairy Crest experience in a wide range of Board member at CEVA Logistics, Brothers Group plc, joining in Group plc from 2002 to 2006, highly competitive consumer where she worked from 2012 until February 2008, and previously having joined the company in industries.
Prior to joining CEVA, Inna held the same position at the 1991.
Prior to this the majority of Chief Executive of Virgin Media spent 19 years at IBM, where she London Stock Exchange Group his career was spent with Procter Group from March 2008 to June held a number of di erent roles plc from 1999.
Jonathan has also and Gamble, Mars and Pepsi Co. 2013, having joined ntl, Virgin focusing on building and running been a non-executive director of Drummond Hall was a nonMedias predecessor, as Chief strong organisations in sales, EMAP plc and Chairman of FTSE executive director of Mitchells Operating O cer in September business development and International.
The early part of his &Butlers plc from July 2004 to 2005.
Before ntl he was Managing marketing, culminating as career was at Price Waterhouse January 2010 and Chairman from Director, Distribution, at Lloyds Vice-President, Marketing & where he quali ed as a June 2008 to November2009.
His previous roles SalesEnablement, IBM Systems charteredaccountant.
includeChief Operating O cer Areas of expertise Soft ware and ISVs.
Inna is atPrudential Assurance Areas of expertise Drummond Hall brings a wealth currently President and COO Company Ltd UK, Head of Retail Jonathan Howells signi cant of experience gained across a ofINTTRA, the worlds largest at St George Bank, Senior General financial and accounting number of customer-focused electronic transaction network Manager at the Australian experience, coupled with his blue-chip businesses in the UK, forthe ocean shipping industry.
division of Citibank Limited, Chief roleas Chairman of the Audit Europe and the US.
His strong Executive at Eastwest Airlines Areas of expertise andRisk Committ ee, allow him appreciation of customer service Australia and Financial Controller Inna Kuznetsovas experience toprovide substantial insight into and marketing brings deep insight at ICLAustralia.
inbuilding strong sales and the Groups financial reporting into Sage as we focus on ways to marketing teams and her and risk management processes.
expand our markets and delight Areas of expertise technology background our customers with our Neil Berkett has signi cant Other enableher to bring insight technology and service levels.
experience in leading change currentappointments: intounderstanding within organisations whilst Close Brothers Group plc Group Other managementissues.
retaining the focus on customer Finance Director currentappointments: experience.
He is able to bring Other WH Smith plc Senior this insight and knowledge to the currentappointments: Independent Non-executive transformation at Sage and our INTTRA President and COO Director customer-focused strategy.
First Group plc Senior Other Independent Non-executive currentappointments: Director Guardian Media Group Chairman NSPCC member of the Board ofTrustees The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 67
