People People are at the heart of our business Every day Sage colleagues support millions of entrepreneurs all over the world to build their businesses.
Thisis our honour and a privilege that we take seriously.
Sage is committ ed to creating an environment where colleagues can be passionate, engaged and aligned with strategy, living core values every day and delighting customers.
A fundamental aspect of Sages contribution to our communities: Sage Foundation and its 2 2 2 model leads the way in corporate philanthropy, empowering colleagues to dedicate five days per year as volunteers to support local communities and charities close to theirhearts.
We have a clear mission when it comes to our people at Sage One aligned and engaged team, living our values and creating the best workplace for colleagues.
By unleashing the organisations energy, we will realise our vision and ambitions.
Sandra Campopiano Chief People O cer 2016 has been an exciting year at Sage, Sage values and behaviours are It is recognised that diversity with a strong focus on customers, embedded into the key talent ofthought, inclusion and equal partners, colleagues and communities.
processes including induction, opportunity drives genuine innovation.
Ambitions for the business are bold and recruitment, performance and This year Sage communicated its this requires a strong high performance talentreviews.
They provide a simple continued commitment to diversity culture and underpinning people strategy.
and inclusion with plans, resources Talent management lies at the heart and targets a rming its desire that The year has seen signi cant ofSages ability to execute strategy allcolleagues can truly be themselves investment in systems and tools andthe priorities this year have been at work and develop a great career toatt ract, develop and reward strategic alignment, building capability supporting customers and their diversehigh performing talent, o ering and colleague engagement.
New capability has been compelling careers to those who join hiredto complement existing talent During the year colleagues were asked and building a reward structure that including digital marketing, sales and why they love working at Sage.
They gives all colleagues a chance to share product management expertise and a used words such as entrepreneurial, in success.
In May 2016 Sage announced new bespoke Executive Development inspiring, family friendly, collaborative, Fairsail as the cloud HCM platform Programme designed and deployed to exible and challenging and shared their ofchoice to accompany the Sage X3 provide critical transformational views on social media.
These words business solution: Sage will implement leadership skills to leaders.
describe the culture Sage is building.
this HCM system internally across all geographies, providing a step change in streamlined systems and processes for colleagues.
54 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 e c n e r e i d a e k a M e t a v o n n I g n i h t t h g Ensuring colleagues understand Finally, giving a powerful sense of howthey contribute toSage vision purpose beyond the work itself through Sage colleagues: andstrategy continues to be an the activities of Sage Foundation will Performing and Transforming important focus.
This vital alignment continue to be woven into the fabric will be supplemented with the ofthe organisations culture.
Sage is In 2016 the priority has been supporting leaders introduction of a new process called hugely proud of the positive impact andcolleagues as Sage performs and transforms.
VSGM see pages 26 and 56 which Sage Foundation is making on Bydeveloping innovative ways to connect colleagues helps to ensure everyone in the colleague engagement and the with our vision, strategy and values, we have made business is working on the things that communities and charities that further steps towards Sage achieving its ambition will deliverour strategy and results.
Sage has ofbeing a technology leader.
Over 13,000 colleagues plansto expand that in uence further collaborating as one Sage, with a shared sense Providing a great workplace for over in the upcoming year and beyond.
ofpurpose, clear goals and a focus on delivering 13,000 colleagues across 23 countries innovation and an exceptional customer experience will unleash pride and energy to deliver forour customers and partners is a powerful force.
an exceptional experience for customers and partners.
Many facilities have been upgraded in the last 12 months creating a refreshing one Sage brand and this will continue witha programme of ongoing investment into next year.
Sandra Campopiano Chief People O cer Our colleagues are aligned and we trust each other to do the right thing to enable We are action oriented We create new ways of our customers and agile: we keep things doing things and deliver tosucceed.
simple, deliver at pace and innovative solutions overachieve.
which our customers need to help their businessgrow.
Sage is a great place to work and our colleagues Our customers are make a di erence tolocal at the heart ofeverything we communities by relentlessly do: they are why we are here supporting our customers and and we wouldntexist their businesses to be successful.
Our Values The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 55 i r e h t o D y t i c o l e V t s r s r e m o t s u C
