Governance Corporate The culture of the firm, built over many years, represents governancereport a key competitive advantage.
I am pleased to introduce this governance report in which we describe the operation of the Board and its Committees, and how the Board discharged its responsibilities during the year.
The Board pays great attention to the culture of the firm which we believe, built over many years, represents a key competitive advantage.
Schroders above all values integrity and always seeks to act in the best interest of clients and shareholders.
Our shareholding structure supports the long term approach we take in the management of our business and enables the Board and management to avoid being overly influenced by short term considerations.
We have made important changes to our governance structure to ensure it supports the Company as we adapt to a changing environment.
We have appointed two additional independent non-executive Directors so that we have a majority of independent non-executive Directors on the Board.
With these appointments we have addressed some skills gaps that we had identified on the Board, specifically in relation to listed company experience and digital.
We have also increased the level of gender diversity on the Board and we intend to achieve the targets for women of 33% amongst senior management and Board members by 2019 and 2020 respectively.
As part of our focus on the long term we have decided to cease issuing financial reports every quarter and we will now restrict information released at the end of the first and third quarters to movements in assets under management.
As set out in detail in the Audit and Risk Committee report, in 2016 we undertook a tender process to select new external auditors.
This process was led by Rhian Davies and the Board will propose the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors in succession to PwC with effect from the financial year commencing 1 January 2018.
Our remuneration policy will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting in April.
Philip Howard and his colleagues on the Remuneration Committee have assessed our policy in the context of a changing external environment as well as the Companys own requirements.
While maintaining the principal features of our existing policy we have made some important changes to align further the interests of management, shareholders and clients.
Philip Howard explains this in detail in the Remuneration report.
This being such an important area in terms of attracting, motivating and retaining talent, aligning the interests of different stakeholders and taking account of the public interest in these issues, the Board now considers remuneration on an annual basis.
I would like to thank all my colleagues on the Board for their contribution during the year.
Michael Dobson Chairman 1 March 2017 50 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities The Board and its Committees 2016 Board and Committee meeting attendance The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and Audit and Risk Nominations Remuneration 1 2 Board Committee Committee Committee performance of the Company.
The Board is accountable to shareholders 3 for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance Andrew Beeson 1 1 1 1 and long-term shareholder value.
It is authorised to manage the business Michael Dobson 6 6 3 3 of the Company in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Executive Directors which may only be amended by special resolution of shareholders except Peter Harrison 6 6 where the Articles specify otherwise.
Some decisions can only be taken by Richard Keers 6 6 the Board, including in respect of the Groups overall strategy, significant Philip Mallinckrodt 6 6 new business activities and the strategy for the management of the Groups investment capital.
These are contained in the Schedule of Massimo Tosato 6 6 Matters Reserved to the Board.
Under the Companys Articles of Non-executive Directors Association all Directors have the right to convene Board meetings.
4 Ashley Almanza 1 1 1 1 1 1 Robin Buchanan 6 6 5 5 4 4 6 6 The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees, Rhian Davies 6 6 5 5 4 4 notably the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee Philip Howard 6 6 5 5 4 4 6 6 and the Nominations Committee.
At the discretion of the Board or 5 relevant Committee, senior management are invited to attend meetings Nichola Pease 6 6 4 5 4 4 5 6 and make presentations on developments and results in their areas 5 Bruno Schroder 3 6 4 4 of the business.
Membership of the Committees is detailed in each 1 There were five scheduled Board meetings held during the year and one additional Committee report.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board Board meeting to discuss corporate activity.
and each of the Committees terms of reference can be found on the 2 There were four scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings held during the year Companys website.
These are reviewed periodically to support the and two additional Committee meetings to discuss the Directors remuneration policy.
3 Andrew Beeson retired from the Board on 4 April 2016.
Directors in discharging their responsibilities.
4 Ashley Almanza stepped down from the Board at the 2016 AGM.
5 Nichola Pease was unable to attend one Audit and Risk Committee meeting and one The diagram on page 52 illustrates the Board and Committee structure Remuneration committee meeting due to prior commitments.
Bruno Schroder was including how authority is delegated from the Board to specific areas unable to attend three Board meetings due to illness.
and how independent oversight is organised.
There is also a Chairmans Committee whose membership is comprised Compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code Code of the non-executive Directors.
The Chairmans Committee is not a Throughout 2016, the Company has applied the main principles Committee of the Board and serves as an informal forum for the of the Code and complied with its provisions with the exception discussion of such matters as the Chairman considers appropriate.
of the following: This includes the annual evaluation of the Group Chief Executive, the review of the Group Chief Executives plan for management succession A.
3.1 Michael Dobson was not independent on appointment as and the evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees.
When deciding on his appointment, the The Chairmans Committee met three times during the year.
Board recognised that the Code states that the Chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out in the Code The Board believes that it operates most effectively with an appropriate and that ordinarily the Chief Executive should not go on to be the balance of executive Directors, independent non-executive Directors Chairman.
In accordance with the Code and as explained in the 2015 and Directors who have a connection with the Companys principal Annual Report and Accounts, the Chairman, Senior Independent shareholder group.
No individual or group of individuals is in a position Director and the Company Secretary consulted with major to dominate the Boards decision making.
shareholders and considered the provisions of the Code prior to the Board making its decision.
Each Director brings different skills, experience and knowledge to the Company, with the non-executive Directors bringing additional B.
1.2 From 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, the Board did not independent thought, judgement and challenge.
Our Board comprises include a sufficient number of independent non-executive Directors.
11 Directors, made up of the Chairman, two executive Directors, six independent non-executive Directors and two non-executive Directors Executive and non-executive Director succession planning has been not deemed to be independent.
Biographies of each of the Directors a long-term priority for the Board for some time.
It was anticipated are set out on pages 46 and 47. that with the appointment of Peter Harrison as Group Chief Executive and Michael Dobson as Chairman we would have had the requisite We currently have three female Directors on the Board.
The Board number of independent non-executive Directors as required under has adopted a revised diversity policy and this is set out on page 57 the Code.
However, with the departure of Ashley Almanza at the in the Nominations Committee report.
2016 AGM this was no longer the case.
As set out in the Nominations Committee report, the appointment of Ian King and Rakhi GossCustard means the Board is now compliant with this requirement.
Copies of the Code can be obtained from the FRCs website at www.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Governance Corporate governancereport continued Governance framework Executive Committees Executives Independent oversight Committees composed entirely of non-executive Directors Direct access to the Audit and Risk Committee Secondary reporting line Board Accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value Group Chief Nominations Remuneration Audit and Risk Executive Committee Committee Committee Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for the management reviewing and reviewing and overseeing financial of the business recommending recommending the reporting, risk and strategic changes to the remuneration management and development composition of strategy for the internal controls the Board and Group and the and external audit its Committees remuneration policy for the Directors Group Management Chief Financial General Counsel Committee Ocer Assists the Responsible Responsible for the Group Chief for financial Groups compliance, Executive in management, legal and governance discharging his capital management, functions responsibilities.
human resources, Functional oversight of risk responsibilities and systems of delegated to internal controls individual members Group Capital Group Risk Group Head Global Head of Group Head of Wealth Internal Audit Committee Committee of Risk Compliance Management Audit and Risk Provides independent, Assists the Chief Assists the Chief Identies and Assists the General Committee Financial Ocer Financial Ocer quanties risks Counsel in promoting objective assurance to management and in the deployment in discharging his before and after and monitoring Responsible for of operating and responsibilities mitigation compliance with to the Audit and Risk overseeing financial Committee in respect investment capital in respect of risk regulatory reporting, risk and controls requirements and of risk management, management and controls and relationships with internal controls in regulatory authorities governance processes the Wealth Management business Reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Composed of independent non-executive Directors of Schroder & Co. Limited.
52 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Division of responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Role of the non-executive Directors Chief Executive Non-executive Directors have a responsibility to uphold high standards of There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and integrity and probity and are expected to provide constructive challenge Group Chief Executive that is set out in job descriptions.
This has not and help develop proposals on strategy.
Non-executive Directors are changed following the appointment of Michael Dobson as Chairman.
also expected to monitor the performance of management in meeting agreed objectives while satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and risk management systems Role of the Chairman are robust and appropriate.
The Board assesses the independence of The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its non-executive Directors using the criteria set out in the Code.
The its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
He is responsible for creating non-executive Directors participate fully in open and constructive an environment for open, robust and effective debate.
This includes Board and Committee meetings and their views are actively sought, ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear particularly when developing and setting strategy.
information in order to discharge their responsibilities.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring effective communication with Key areas of focus during the year shareholders and other stakeholders.
This involves supporting The Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Chief Executive and the Groups relationships with major clients, shareholders, Company Secretary, maintains an annual rolling agenda which sets the strategic and commercial partners and regulators.
framework for Board meetings so that the Board covers an appropriate range of topics from matters of strategy and reviews of the Groups businesses and operations through to more routine business.
Role of the Group Chief Executive The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management Each Board meeting receives a report from the Group Chief Executive of the Company and its subsidiaries, including the creation of on the performance of the business, the Chief Financial Officer on shareholder value over the long term through growth in profits and the financial performance, a governance report and, where relevant, a recommendation of the Groups strategy and budget.
He is assisted by report from each of the Board committees.
In addition to these regular members of the GMC in the delivery of his and the Boards objectives matters, specific areas of focus by the Board during 2016 included: for the business.
Meeting dates Key areas considered March Annual Report and Accounts, dividend proposal Role of the Senior Independent Director and AGM The role of the Senior Independent Director is an essential part Global Distribution of the Groups governance structure.
Brexit Board succession Philip Howards role is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman, May Key trends in Asset Management oversee the evaluation of the Chairmans performance and serve as Equities review an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He is also available Intermediary and Defined Contribution strategy Wealth Management strategy as an additional point of contact for shareholders should they wish Efficiency and effectiveness to raise matters with him rather than the Chairman or Group Chief July Halfyear results and dividend proposal Executive.
Philip Howard led the process for the appointment of Remuneration strategy a new Chairman in 2016 and has overseen a review of the relationship Asset management trends between Michael Dobson and Peter Harrison.
He is fully aware of the Private Assets strategy importance of the role of the Senior Independent Director, particularly Brexit in light of Michael Dobsons appointment as Chairman.
ICAAP September Talent and people strategy In addition, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, he North America strategy has also led the review of the Directors remuneration policy and Corporate and Social Responsibility subsequent consultation with major shareholders.
More information Regulation can be found in the Remuneration report from page 68.
Appointment of the external auditor Group recovery plan and resolution pack ILAAP November UK Distribution Strategy UK investment strategy Global Operating Model strategy 2017 budget Audit tender Charitable donations One additional unscheduled Board meeting was held in October to consider the acquisition of our interest in Benchmark Capital.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Governance The Nominations Committee believes that their experience continues Corporate to add value to the Board and Nominations Committee discussions.
The Board will therefore recommend their re-election at the 2017 AGM.
governancereport Board induction and training The Company Secretary supports the Chairman and Group Chief continued Executive in providing a personalised induction programme to all new Directors.
This helps to familiarise them with their duties and the Groups culture and values, strategy, business model, businesses, operations, risks and governance arrangements.
Director appointments, tenure and time commitment Following Ian Kings and Rakhi Goss-Custards appointments in The rules providing for the appointment, election, re-election and the removal of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles January 2017, comprehensive induction programmes were developed and are ongoing.
The induction process involves: of Association.
Under the Companys Articles of Association Ian King and Rakhi Goss-Custard will resign and offer themselves for election meeting all members of the GMC to gain an insight into and an at the Companys AGM on 27 April 2017.
All other Directors seek re-election on an annual basis.
understanding of the opportunities and challenges facing their areas of the business: Non-executive Directors are expected to serve two three-year terms, one-to-one meetings with other senior management across the Company, including from the first, second and third lines although the Board may ask a non-executive Director to serve an additional three year period.
Where an appointment extends beyond of defence to understand the Groups internal control and risk management framework see page 36 : six years, continued appointment is subject to particularly rigorous review, taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of access to an online board portal which holds copies of all recent Board and Committee reports and minutes, the Companys Articles the Board.
Details of the Directors length of tenure are set out in the below chart.
of Association, Committee terms of reference and previous Annual Report and Accounts: and Length of tenure briefing sessions with the Chairman of the Nominations Committee on the responsibilities and activities of this Committee.
19% The Board believes firmly that the ongoing development and 27% briefing of Directors is an important aspect of the Boards agenda.
03 years Briefing sessions are arranged each year which, during 2016, included 36 years presentations on the development of the ICAAP and updates on 69 years Real Estate and Quantitative Equity Products.
Members of the Board 9 years Committees also receive regular updates on technical developments 27% at scheduled Committee meetings.
27% Board effectiveness and evaluation Our externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2015 identified some demand to widen the Boards discussions on strategy and risks to Non-executive Directors letters of appointment stipulate that they the strategy, for greater diversity in terms of gender, nationality and are expected to commit sufficient time to discharge their duties.
sector and to enhance the induction process for executive Directors.
The Board considers the time commitments and, where relevant, We took action to address these points in 2016.
Board agendas and the independence of all Directors standing for election or re-election their supporting papers have focused more on strategic matters, with before making a recommendation to shareholders.
The Board has an emphasis on the impact of the headwinds in our industry and how adopted a policy that does not normally allow executive Directors we react to them.
In terms of diversity we have broadened the range to take up more than one external non-executive directorship.
of sector skills on the Board and increased the proportion of women.
Non-executive Directors are required to notify the Chairman We have also confirmed that our aim is to increase female representation before taking on any additional appointments.
We have not appointed any new executive Directors is satisfied that all Directors continue to be effective and in 2016, but when we do, a tailored induction will be developed.
demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
The 2016 Board evaluation was undertaken internally.
The Chairman Details of executive Directors service contracts, termination with the Company Secretary had individual meetings with each arrangements and non-executive Directors letters of appointment Director to discuss the following core questions: are set out on page 81.
How effective has the Board been in 2016?
Independence Have we focused on the right things and what would you The Board considers all of its non-executive Directors, with the like to change this year?
exception of Michael Dobson, Philip Mallinckrodt and Bruno Schroder, How can we make the Board more effective?
to be independent under the criteria set out in the Code.
All are How well has the transition to Peter Harrison gone?
independent in terms of character and judgement and free from What would you like from Peter Harrison this year?
any business or other relationship that could materially interfere What concerns do you have about the Board?
with the exercise of their judgement.
Where are the weaknesses on the Board?
Are the Board Committees operating effectively?
Michael Dobson, as the former Chief Executive, is not considered Is there any feedback on individual Directors?
Philip Mallinckrodt is not considered How well did we manage the independent non-executive Director independent as he is a former executive Director and is a member search and do we now have the right skills around the table?
of the principal shareholder group.
Bruno Schroder is not considered What are our succession challenges in 2017?
independent as he is a member of the principal shareholder group and because he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
54 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors were free to raise any other issues they wished to.
Following All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company the interviews, a report was prepared and discussed by the whole Secretary and can arrange through him to receive professional advice Board at the February 2017 meeting.
The overall conclusion was independently of the Company, at the Companys expense.
that the Board continued to operate effectively, that there had been a significant shift in focus to more strategic issues and that Shareholder engagement the process to find the new independent non-executive Directors The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining had been thorough and had gone well.
good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders and the wider investment community.
As part of the Companys investor Looking forward, there was support for continuing the shift in relations programme, the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial emphasis to strategic issues and to look in more detail at the strategic Officer participated in a number of roadshows in the UK, continental choices open to us to address the challenges facing the industry.
Europe and the US as well as attending several investor conferences.
Directors also wanted see more opportunities for first line attendees Feedback from these meetings and conferences is provided to the at Board and Committee meetings and to expose more senior Board to ensure that the Directors develop an understanding of the managers to the Board in support of succession planning.
There was views of our major shareholders.
All Directors are available to engage a clear desire for a continued focus on Board and executive succession.
in dialogue with shareholders and would do so if requested.
Philip Howard, as Senior Independent Director, led the review of In early 2016 we engaged directly with our major shareholders, Michael Dobsons performance.
Philip Howard held regular meetings who between them represented over 70% of our issued ordinary and discussions with the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and shares, to discuss our succession plans.
Whilst the vast majority of individual Directors.
In 2017, he met with all the non-executive those shareholders supported our proposals, we recognised that Directors and the Group Chief Executive to discuss the Chairmans a significant minority did not.
We appreciated the feedback from overall performance.
The consensus was that Michael Dobson had those shareholders and we gave commitments to provide them with been a highly effective Chairman.
He had stood back from his executive reassurance regarding the elevation of the Chief Executive to the role responsibilities fully and had assumed an entirely non-executive role.
This included a commitment to appoint two additional He had undertaken his external duties diligently, having numerous independent non-executive Directors such that there was an absolute meetings with key clients and regulators, as envisaged when he was majority of independent non-executive Directors on the Board, and a appointed.
His time commitment had been approximately two days per commitment to update shareholders following those appointments on week, although this was an average rather than a fixed commitment.
how the transition from Michael Dobson to Peter Harrison had gone.
He had acted as a sounding board for Peter Harrison and he had taken Consequently, a number of meetings have been held with major the Board in a more strategic direction, which was what the Board had shareholders to provide the promised update and also to discuss our asked for.
He had led the search for the two additional non-executive proposed remuneration policy.
Most of these meetings were with the Directors in a highly effective way.
The Board reiterated its support for Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary, but both the Michael Dobson as Chairman.
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive were available to meet any shareholder who wished to see them.
The Board has gone through a period of significant change over the past year.
In light of this, the Chairman proposed that the evaluation The primary means of communicating with the Companys for 2017 should be externally facilitated again, one year earlier than shareholders is through the Annual Report and Accounts and would normally be expected.
The Board supported this proposal and half-yearly results.
These are available on the Companys website therefore it is anticipated that Independent Board Evaluation will and the Annual Report and Accounts is posted to all shareholders conduct a review in late 2017. who elect to receive it.
Our Group website also contains information on the business of the Company, Corporate Governance, all regulatory Directors conflicts of interest announcements, key dates in the financial calendar and other The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise and manage important shareholder information.
conflicts of interest, and these procedures have operated effectively during the year.
Any planned changes in the Boards directorships The AGM is another important opportunity to meet with shareholders, outside the Group are subject to prior approval by the Board.
In hear their views and to answer their questions about the Group and circumstances where a potential conflict arises, the Board excluding its business.
All resolutions are voted on by way of a poll.
This allows the Director concerned will consider the situation and either authorise the Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders the arrangement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the attending the meeting.
All resolutions are voted on separately and Companys Articles of Association or take other appropriate action.
the final voting results are published as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Together with the rest of the Board, the Chairmen of the Audit All potential conflicts authorised by the Board are recorded in a and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees will be present to conflicts register which is maintained by the Company Secretary and answer questions.
The 2017 AGM is to be held on Thursday 27 April 2017. reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board with any changes to their conflicts of interest.
Company Secretary Graham Staples, the Company Secretary, is responsible for the following key matters in relation to the effective operation of the Board: advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on all obligations and developments in corporate governance: ensuring that appropriate and timely information is provided to the Board and its Committees and that there are good information flows between senior management and the non-executive Directors: acting as a point of contact for shareholders on matters of corporate governance: and implementing a robust governance framework throughout the Group.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Governance Nominations Succession planning remains at the forefront of the Committees Committeereport thinking.
Succession planning remains at the forefront of the Committees thinking.
After nine years on the Board, Philip Howard will step down as a Director at the AGM in 2018.
We are already giving consideration to his succession as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
We will begin a search for an additional independent non-executive Director later in the year.
The Committee considered Philip Mallinckrodts appointment as a non-executive Director at its meeting held in February 2017.
The Committee fully supported his appointment which was approved by the Board on 1 March 2017.
Executive succession is also an important area of focus for the Board.
We need to develop our talent such that we have a pipeline of executive management below Board level with the potential to lead the business in the future.
Talent management and succession planning is considered by the full Board at least once a year.
Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee is responsible for keeping under review the composition of the Board and its Committees and to ensure Committee membership meeting attendance is on page 51 appropriate executive and non-executive Director succession plans are in place.
Michael Dobson Chairman The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Robin Buchanan Rhian Davies Board composition Rakhi Goss-Custard Following the appointment of Ian King and Rakhi Goss-Custard and Lord Howard with Philip Mallinckrodts move to a non-executive Director role, the make up of the Board is illustrated below: Ian King Philip Mallinckrodt Nichola Pease 18% Bruno Schroder Independent non-executive Directors Non-independent non-executive Directors I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee report for 2016.
55% Executive Directors 27% As I outlined in my Chairmans statement earlier, we have made a number of changes to the Board in 2016.
The first part of the year was focused on managing the succession to me as Chief Executive and Andrew Beeson as Chairman.
The process for succession to the Chief Executive was led by Andrew and succession to the Chairman was led We have three female Directors representing 27% of the Board.
by the Senior Independent Director, Philip Howard.
The detail behind this process was set out in our 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
As a multinational Company with offices staffed by local nationals in 27 different countries, diversity for us goes beyond gender or ethnic I took over as Chairman of the Committee on 4 April 2016 and my priority background.
We look for a diversity of skills and experience, particularly was to lead the process to deliver on our commitment to appoint two international experience, which we believe is vital for an effective Board additional independent non-executive Directors by the end of 2016. and this will continue to be the primary criterion by which we select The process we followed is set out in more detail in this report and I am candidates for the Board.
delighted that we were able to announce in December the appointments of Ian King and Rakhi Goss-Custard.
Ian and Rakhi bring skills and The Board is also supportive of the recommendations set out in the experience that are complementary to those of the existing nonParker Report on ethnic diversity.
They will both make a significant contribution to our Board discussions.
56 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities to grow our business internationally.
Rakhis experience in the digital Board policy on diversity world, through her work at Amazon and, more recently, through her The Board recognises the importance of diversity and that it is a experience as a non-executive Director on other boards, will have wider issue than gender.
We believe that members of the Board a significant contribution to make as the impact of digital becomes should collectively possess a diverse range of skills, expertise, increasingly important in the asset management industry.
I look industry knowledge, business and other experience necessary forward to their contribution over the coming years for the effective oversight of the Group.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity as one of many factors when Directors re-election to the Board recommending new appointments to the Board.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Ian King and Rakhi Goss-Custard will be put forward for election at the 2017 AGM.
The Board aims to have 33% of Board positions held by women The remaining Directors will retire from the Board and submit by 2020.
We also endeavour to only use the services of executive themselves for re-election at the AGM.
search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on Gender Diversity.
The Committee has assessed the independence, time commitment and effectiveness of the non-executive Directors and is satisfied that all non-executive Directors continue to fulfil their fiduciary Appointment of new independent non-executive Directors responsibilities and statutory duties.
In April 2016 we said we would increase the independent representation on the Board by appointing two additional As Robin Buchanan, Philip Howard and Bruno Schroder have served independent non-executive Directors.
on the Board for more than six years, the proposal for their re-election was given particular consideration.
The Committee also considered I met separately with each member of the Committee and the Group Philip Mallinckrodts re-election as a non-executive Director.
Chief Executive to discuss the desired skills and experience required The Committee agreed that these Directors continue to provide a in potential non-executive candidates.
The Committee met in June valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations and recommends and agreed the required skill sets which included: their re-appointment.
Current or recent board level experience within a major As required by the UK Listing Rules, the appointment of independent UK-listed company Directors must be approved by a simple majority of all shareholders Broad international experience and by a simple majority of the independent shareholders.
Further Experience of multi-product and channel businesses details are set out in the 2017 Notice of AGM.
Experience of technological and digital change as a strategic enabler A background in finance and risk would be useful to support the Evaluating the performance of the Committee Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee The evaluation process for 2016 is set out on page 54.
As part of Preferably one non-British national but with a strong preference that process I discussed with each Director how the Committee had that both are based in the UK performed in 2016.
The overall feedback was that the Committee Diversity in all respects, but particularly gender.
had performed its role well during the year.
Establishing at the outset clear requirements in relation to the new independent non-executive To facilitate the search, we appointed MWM Consulting who assisted Directors was seen as central in delivering a successful outcome.
in formulating the role specification and provided us with a long-list All members fully engaged in the process and they were updated of potential candidates for consideration.
We also used Korn Ferry regularly on progress in addition to the reports they received in to identify potential candidates.
Both firms are signatories to the Committee meetings.
Voluntary Code of Conduct on Gender Diversity and were independent of Schroders.
Priorities for 2017 Succession planning is seen as a constant requirement.
Over the After initial screening, I interviewed several candidates and five went next two years two non-executive Directors, Philip Howard and Robin on to meet the Nominations Committee and the Group Chief Executive.
Buchanan, will have completed nine years on the Board and our focus In December we announced the appointment of Ian King and Rakhi in 2017 will be to establish a pipeline of potential candidates who Goss-Custard with effect from 1 January 2017.
The appointments met could succeed them.
As stated above we will begin a search for a many of the requirements we set out in our original specification.
Ian new independent non-executive Director later this year.
Executive brings extensive experience in leadership positions in major multisuccession, vital to the future success of the Company, is considered national companies which will be of great value to us as we continue annually by the full Board.
Michael Dobson Chairman of the Nominations Committee 1 March 2017 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Governance Audit and Risk Schroders approach demonstrates its culture Committee report of putting clients first, of wanting to do the right thing while ensuring the business grows sustainably.
responsibility, notably the work involved in undertaking the external audit tender.
As reported in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, in order to meet new European audit reforms we are required to replace PwC as our external auditor no later than 2020.
The external audit tender was put out to tender in 2016.
In November 2016, we announced that EY would replace PwC as the Groups auditor for the financial year commencing 1 January 2018.
In addition, a number of audit related services will be transferred to EY during 2018.
Further information can be found on page 62.
The Committee has also reviewed the Groups control environment and system of internal controls and the Groups management of risk and compliance related activities, including oversight of the Groups material outsource providers.
As a part of this work, the Committee considered the Groups ICAAP, ILAAP, its risk appetite and various operational stress scenarios in order that the Board can make the viability statement as set out on page 37.
We have also continued to oversee the development of our conduct programme designed to identify emerging trends and heightened risk issues.
Committee membership meeting attendance is on page 51 There will be a number of significant strategic, commercial and operational impacts on asset and wealth managers arising from both Rhian Davies Chairman MiFID II and Brexit.
Preparation for the implementation of MiFID II, Robin Buchanan which has been delayed until January 2018, is ongoing.
The result of Philip Howard the referendum on 23 June 2016, which means that the UK is expected Nichola Pease to exit the European Union, and the US presidential election are likely to continue to cause heightened economic, political and regulatory uncertainty over the medium term.
Schroders is well placed to manage Having been a member of the Committee since July 2015 and the risks arising from these events and the Committee is reassured by Chairman since April 2016, I have been impressed with the openness the readiness work being undertaken, including the impact of potential and willingness with which management engages with me, the legal and regulatory changes on Schroders business model.
This will Committee and the business key stakeholders, including its global continue to be an area that the Board as a whole will keep under review.
At a time of unprecedented change and scrutiny of the asset management sector, Schroders approach demonstrates to We seek to ensure that appropriate systems and controls continue to the Committee its culture of putting clients first and of wanting be in place across the Group to identify and mitigate threats or to take to do the right thing while ensuring the business grows sustainably advantage of opportunities that might arise.
This focus will remain within a strong governance framework.
an important part of the Committees work during 2017 and beyond.
Through our work, the Committee embraces its role of protecting the interests of shareholders in connection with the integrity of published financial information and the effectiveness of the audit.
During 2016, Rhian Davies the Committees activity has been focused towards this area of its Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee See glossary.
58 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Responsibilities of the Committee Key areas of focus during the year The principal role of the Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling The table below summarises the key issues that the Committee its oversight responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, financial considered at each of its meetings during 2016. controls and audit, risk and internal controls.
Financial reporting, financial controls and All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Meeting date audit Risk and internal controls Directors.
Biographical details and the experience of Committee February Annual Report and Key risks and risk management members are set out on pages 46 to 47.
The Board has determined Accounts including Internal audit control framework that, by virtue of their previous experience gained in other financial review organisations, members collectively have competence relevant judgements Risk and control framework to the sector in which the Group operates.
In addition, the Board Viability statement review considers that Rhian Davies, a chartered accountant, has the recent Pillar 3 disclosures and relevant financial experience required to chair the Committee.
May External audit ICAAP tender plan Money Laundering Reporting At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman, External audit plan Officers annual report Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Bruno Schroder Client take on attended most meetings.
Other regular attendees who advised Business continuity the Committee were the Group Financial Controller, the heads Oversight of outsource providers of Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit and the General Counsel.
July Half-year results Key risks Other members of senior management were also invited to attend External audit Risk control assessments tender ILAAP as appropriate.
The Chairman of the WMARC who is an independent Infrastructure finance business non-executive Director of Schroder & Co. Limited, attended one Fund liquidity meeting and provided a report to each Committee meeting on September Reappointment Conduct matters related to the Wealth Management business.
Representatives of external auditor MiFID II from the Groups auditor, PwC, attended all of the Committees for 2017 Group recovery plan scheduled meetings.
Tax strategy and resolution pack November Financial controls Information security and the During 2016, two private meetings were held with PwC without Accounting policies management of technology management present.
Private meetings were also held with the Chief External auditor change Financial Officer and the heads of the Compliance, Risk and Internal effectiveness Oversight of outsource providers Audit functions.
These meetings provided an opportunity for any review and Key risks review matters to be raised confidentially.
independence Insurance External audit 2017 Internal Audit and Following the publication of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code tender Compliance monitoring plans and revised FRC Guidance for Audit Committees, the Board approved amendments to the Committees terms of reference.
The changes largely formalised the Committees oversight of the Groups internal and external audit arrangements.
The terms of reference are available on our website.
The Committees primary activities are the oversight of: Financial reporting, financial controls and audit Risk and internal controls The content and integrity The Groups risk and control of financial and Pillar 3 reporting framework, including the Groups The appropriateness of whistleblowing procedures and accounting judgements the Money Laundering Reporting The effectiveness of the Officers reports financial control framework The Groups ICAAP, ILAAP, risk The effectiveness of the appetite and recovery and external auditor resolution planning Independence of the The Groups regulatory processes external auditor and procedures and its relationships Recommending to the with regulators Board the appointment The Groups Internal Audit function of the external auditor Emerging and thematic risks which may have a material impact on the Groups operations in the future Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Governance Audit and Risk Committee report continued Financial reporting, financial controls and audit and systems.
New tools for allocating revenues in accordance with The Committee reviews the half-year and annual results and the the Groups transfer pricing policy and an automated solution for Annual Report and Accounts, before recommending them to the calculating segregated accounts performance fees will be implemented Board for approval.
A process for replacing the Groups proprietary rebates engine is underway and is expected to be delivered in 2017.
A reporting The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have strategy is also being developed to ensure the Group remains well been adopted and whether management has made appropriate placed to manage future reporting demands.
estimates and judgements, including those in respect of financial assets, goodwill and intangible assets, provisions and contingent The Committee receives regular reports from PwC on the audit liabilities, the UK DB pension scheme funding level and the scope, progress against the audit plan, an independent assessment determination of entities that are consolidated into the Group where of financial reporting, an audit opinion on the Annual Report and these are subject to material judgement.
As a result of new guidance Accounts and an independent report on the half-year results.
issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority on Alternative Relevant controls are also reviewed by PwC.
Performance Measures APMs further information on each of the Groups APMs has been provided in the glossary see page 174.
The Committees responsibilities include whether it can recommend The Committee agrees that these APMs help better describe how to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts when taken as a business performance is assessed by management and overseen whole is fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provides by the Board.
Other changes made to the presentation of the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Annual Report and Accounts are described on page 151 and position and performance, business model and strategy.
To support were also discussed by the Committee.
the Committee in making this recommendation it assessed the key messages being communicated in the Annual Report and Accounts, The Groups financial control environment is set out in detailed risk as well as the information the Committee and the Board as a whole and control documents.
These documents provide a comprehensive had received and their discussions throughout the year.
summary of the risks and controls that exist across the Finance function globally and support the Groups risk and control assessments The Groups tax strategy is reviewed annually and is discussed with see page 37.
During the year, the Committee received reports from the external auditors see page 35 for more information.
Finance on the operation of the controls over the financial reporting process including changes to the finance management team, revenue and rebates processes and ongoing developments to processes The Committee is required to report to shareholders on the process it follows in its review of significant judgemental issues that it has considered during the year.
These issues are set out below.
Significant judgements and issues Action Accounting for acquisitions During the year the Group made a number The Committee considered reports from Group Finance that set out the basis of consolidation, of acquisitions.
These acquisitions required including key assumptions used to determine the acquired intangible assets and goodwill.
The judgement as to the basis of consolidation and Committee considered the work performed by Group Finance and a valuation specialist in establishing the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
the key assumptions, including the terms of client relationships, the profit before tax and the discount rate.
Having considered supporting information, the Committee was satisfied with the basis of See note 29 to the accounts.
consolidation and initial carrying value of the relevant assets.
Recognition and disclosure of liabilities The Group has some uncertainty over the During 2016 detailed reports were presented by management to the Committee addressing the recognition, timing and amount in respect of judgemental issues and estimates, which included the key assumptions and basis for the main certain obligations.
These can arise in a number areas of uncertainty regarding the recognition of liabilities.
of areas but principally comprise legal and regulatory matters and leasehold related The Group Head of Tax presented an update on the Groups tax strategy and associated governance obligations.
In addition, the calculation of process to the Committee in September.
The Committee reviewed and approved the Groups updated the Groups tax charge necessarily involves tax strategy which is published on the Groups website.
During the year changes were made to the a degree of estimation and judgement, given Groups transfer pricing policy to reflect new rules introduced as a result of the OECD BEPS initiative.
the many jurisdictions in which it has operations and the complexity of the applicable tax rules Key judgements on uncertain liabilities have been discussed with PwC, who have completed their in each of those jurisdictions.
The Committee considers that the judgements made by management in respect of all relevant liabilities are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
During the year the Committee received updates on the Swiss Banks continuing engagement with See notes 5, 6 and 18 to the accounts.
the US Department of Justice under the terms of the agreement reached in 2015.
60 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Significant judgements and issues Action Carrying values of assets The Group holds material balances in respect The Committee considered reports prepared by management that set out relevant considerations of acquisitions completed and the UK DB in assessing the carrying value of material assets that required judgement in the determination pension scheme surplus which are subject of their valuation.
to judgement regarding their carrying value.
Acquisition related items comprising goodwill and intangible assets, were assessed against the See notes 13 and 25 to the accounts.
performance and outlook of the relevant cash generating units and the application of growth assumptions and discount rates.
Reports from management included the key financial assumptions that had been used by the independent qualified actuaries, Aon Hewitt Limited, to determine the UK DB pension scheme surplus.
The pension trustee company has also considered the low interest rate environment and its impact on yields for investments in the UK pension scheme, and while the scheme remains in surplus no material change to the schemes investment strategy has been recommended.
The basis for determining the carrying value of certain other assets was also considered in the management report.
Having considered the supporting information, the Committee was satisfied with managements conclusions regarding the carrying values of the relevant assets.
Presentation of profits Since 2013 the consolidated income statement The Committee considered and was satisfied with the continued presentation of exceptional items within separately presents exceptional items which are a separate column in the consolidated income statement.
This presentation is considered appropriate as permitted by accounting rules for specific items it provides a transparent view of certain items and the underlying performance of the business.
For 2016, of income or expense that are material.
exceptional items principally comprised amortisation of acquired intangible assets and costs associated with entering into the strategic relationship with Hartford Funds.
See note 1 b to the accounts.
Oversight of the relationship with the external auditor obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors.
The Committee places great importance on the quality, effectiveness Following the audit tender process EY will be recommended to and independence of the external audit process.
shareholders for appointment as the Groups external auditor for the 2018 financial year at the 2018 AGM.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of the external auditor.
To assist the Committee in fulfilling these Non-audit services responsibilities, an assessment of the external auditor was carried In order to help safeguard the independence and objectivity of the out with feedback collected from key stakeholders by way of a auditor, the Committee maintains a policy on their engagement to questionnaire.
The content of the questionnaire was prepared in provide non-audit services.
This precludes the provision of certain accordance with the FRCs guidance comprising four criteria: mindset non-permitted audit services and contains rules regarding the approval and culture: skills, character and knowledge: quality control: and of permitted non-audit services.
In November, the Committee reviewed judgement.
There was no significant change in the overall perceived the following Group policies developed to help ensure the continued quality of the 2015 audit and feedback did not identify any areas independence of the external auditor: the provision of non-audit of significant concern.
Areas for improvement identified were services by the Groups external auditor, the personal use of the communicated to PwC who responded appropriately.
external auditor and the employment of former employees of the external auditor.
The relevant policies were also updated to reflect the Audit effectiveness is also assessed throughout the year using proposed appointment of EY as the Groups external auditor to ensure a number of measures including: reviewing the quality and that no engagements would restrict their appointment.
The policy on scope of the proposed audit plan and progress against the plan: the provision of non-audit services was updated to comply with the responsiveness to changes in our businesses: and monitoring the new EU audit reform regulation which was effective from 1 January independence and transparency of the audit.
The assessment of 2017 and all non-audit services provided to the Group now require the auditors effectiveness forms part of the Committees annual pre-approval from the Committee.
In addition, non-audit services consideration of whether the auditor should be recommended to provided to Schroder & Co. Limited, the Groups UK bank, must also the Board for reappointment.
We continue to believe that PwC are first be approved by the WMARC and non-audit services provided to performing effectively and their reappointment will be recommended Schroder Pension Management Limited, the Groups Life Company, to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
There are no contractual or similar must also be first approved by that companys board.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Governance Prior to undertaking any non-audit service, PwC, and now also EY, Audit and Risk complete their own independence confirmation processes which are approved by the senior statutory auditor.
To provide the Committee with oversight in this area, it will receive six-monthly reports on the Committee report non-audit services provided by each of the firms.
continued Details of the total fees paid to PwC are set out in note 5 to the accounts.
Non-audit fees, excluding audit related assurance services required under regulation, were equivalent to 37% 2015: 50% of audit fees.
The Committee was satisfied that the quantity and type of non-audit The approach that has been adopted is more restrictive than the work undertaken throughout the year did not impair PwCs legislation requires but it reduces the risk of independence breaches independence or objectivity and that their appointments were in the and allows a practical application of the policy.
The scope of the best interests of shareholders due to PwCs pre-existing knowledge of policy has also been extended to incorporate both consolidated and the Groups operations and practices.
The Groups overall approach is non-consolidated pooled fund vehicles.
As the permitted choice of only to use PwC where there is a strong case to do so in preference to non-audit service providers will be limited during the transition period obtaining the services from an alternative supplier.
Other non-audit from PwC to EY, certain non-audit services that are not permitted services are put out to tender as appropriate.
under the new policy but which are permitted under the rules, will be allowed to continue, with prior approval from the Committee.
The Committee confirms that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Competition Markets Authority Order 2014 throughout the year under review and as at the date of this report.
Audit tender process PwC, or its predecessor firms, have been the Companys auditor since Therefore, it was concluded that no other firms should be issued with Schroders became a listed company in 1959.
As a consequence of the RFP as there was not a reasonable expectation of any other firm new EU audit regulations, Schroders is required to replace PwC as its performing well when judged against the agreed evaluation criteria statutory auditor by 2020.
In order to minimise the disruption to the determined by the Committee.
business the Board, on the recommendation of the Committee, agreed to replace PwC as external auditor at the conclusion of the 2017 audit.
In line with FRC guidance the evaluation criteria for the process This coincides with the end of tenure for the current lead engagement were agreed as: partner Andrew Kail who, having been the lead engagement partner Organisation and capability for five years, in accordance with audit regulations, is required to Audit approach and delivery rotate off the Schroders account at that time.
Audit quality and value-add Resourcing and engagement team The Committee initiated an audit tender process which it owned from Fees and contracts.
The process was designed to be transparent, effective and efficient and give each participating firm an equal opportunity In order to evaluate each of the firms against the criteria to tender for the services.
Prior to the tender, the participating firms the Committee oversaw a number of activities including: had been given an equal opportunity to meet with Schroders employees Analysis of the RFP responses and had provided some non-audit services to Schroders to enable Management presentations, including technical queries them to develop their understanding of the business.
Procedures for Presentations to the Committee and the WMARC Assessment of performance on non-audit services provided managing potential conflicts of interest, including gifts and hospitality, were communicated to each participating firm and access to certain in the preceding 24 months Due diligence including reviewing Audit Quality Review Team employees and the Board was restricted.
reports published by the FRC, references and media searches.
The main elements of planning for the tender began in May 2016 when the proposed process was approved by the Committee.
The At the conclusion of the process the Committee recommended a first and second placed firm to the Board, supported by the rationale for Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee took the principal role in overseeing the work of management, who supported the Committee the recommendation.
In summary, the Committee concluded that EY had: a strong team proposition in each of the key regions where in developing and implementing the planned approach.
The Chairman met with the tender project team regularly and received and the Groups finance operations were located: good knowledge of the businesss and sectors key risks: had performed well on non-audit commented on the main materials prior to them being issued, either to the Committee or to the participating firms.
Except for PwC no other engagements during the past 24 months providing the Committee with reassurance around delivery, planning and culture: and through firms were prevented from participating in the tender.
However, the Committee agreed that only Deloitte, EY and KPMG should be issued certain other actions demonstrated their commitment to providing Schroders with a high quality focused audit.
Accordingly, the Board with the Request For Proposal RFP.
This recommendation was made on the basis of the tender process experience in 2012, when agreed to recommend to shareholders the appointment of EY at the 2018 AGM.
it was concluded that no other firms outside of the Big 4 had the geographical reach necessary to respond effectively to an RFP for the The Committee continues to oversee a detailed transition plan and will Schroders audit.
The Committee recognised that since 2012, although there had been some changes with respect to these other firms, none receive regular reports through 2017, including an initial observations report on our systems and controls from EY.
were transformative with regards to their ability to conduct the global audit of Schroders.
In addition, no other firms had maintained significant relationships with Schroders.
62 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Risk and internal controls Risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of Risk reports set out changes in the level or nature of the risks faced by internal controls, the ongoing monitoring of risk and internal control the Group, developments in risk management and operational events, systems and for reporting on any significant failings or weaknesses.
including significant errors and omissions.
Separate reports allowed the Committee to consider a range of factors when determining the key risks The system of control is designed to manage rather than eliminate and uncertainties faced by the Group.
These included assessments of risk the risk of failure to achieve our strategic objectives and can only provide tolerance and stress testing of the Groups capital position, as well as the reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The production of the Groups ICAAP, ILAAP and the Groups Recovery and Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing the Resolution Plan.
effectiveness and monitoring of the risk and internal controls framework.
The Committee considers emerging and thematic risks that may On behalf of the Board, the Committee carried out the annual have a material impact on the Group.
During the year, the Committee assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2016, reviewed the Groups arrangements in the areas of business continuity, including those related to the financial reporting process.
The information security, the management of technology change risk and Committee also considered the adequacy of the Groups risk our Infrastructure Finance business.
Set out below are examples of management arrangements in the context of the Groups business the Committees activity where members of the first line of defence and strategy.
In carrying out its assessment, the Committee attended and presented to the Committee in relation to emerging considered reports from the Group Financial Controller and the heads and thematic risks.
of Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit and also from PwC.
This enabled an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
The Committee keeps under review the Groups risk management arrangements and internal controls through quarterly reports from representatives of each line of defence.
The Groups three lines of defence model provides an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and mitigating risks faced by the Group.
This model together with the most significant developments in the risk profile of the business and a description of how we control and manage risks are set out on pages 36 to 43.
Client take-on Outsource providers As part of the Groups Efficiency and Effectiveness review, a series of During 2016 the Committee conducted its annual review of the projects were initiated in order to better manage client onboarding Groups material outsource providers.
None of our key relationships and end-to-end life cycle processes across the Group.
Initial focus was had needed to be changed during 2016.
However, action plans were given to the take-on elements of Institutional clients, in order to form implemented to improve performance and service quality in some a solid basis for future work across the life cycle more broadly.
instances including with respect to a third party provider engaged to provide transfer agency and other services for the Groups The Committee spent time considering the Institutional client take-on UK-domiciled mutual fund ranges.
process and the interconnections with key finance processes, notably in relation to billing and rebates.
The project aims to improve Notwithstanding the Groups outsourcing of transfer agency and efficiency and through increased collaboration across the business other services, the Group remains responsible for the services to expedite the take-on process thereby improving clients experience provided and is required to establish assurance over its compliance of doing business with Schroders.
Direct commercial benefits will with the FCAs Client Assets Sourcebook CASS.
The Group looks arise from the reduction in overall time taken to fund client mandates.
to the provider to develop and implement appropriate systems, Improved data collection and work flow management will also processes and controls to enable compliance and therefore an enhance controls around billing and provide a single-source of independent review was commissioned to assess the providers information for the Groups finance systems, thereby allowing controls and our own oversight arrangements.
There were a number better control of key terms that could impact our revenue and of findings many of which were common to other clients of the rebate processes.
None of the findings gave the Committee reason to believe that there had been any client detriment.
The work is ongoing and the Committee will be kept up to date with progress during 2017.
The Committee continues to provide oversight of the Groups and the providers programme to deliver CASS compliant operations and management continues to work with the industry to resolve the issues faced.
Within Schroders, processes have been reviewed and strengthened, employees retrained, with new employees added to work exclusively on CASS monitoring.
Management reporting has also been enhanced.
Ongoing oversight of the Groups outsource arrangements will be a priority for the Committee during 2017.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Governance Audit and Risk Committee report continued Compliance through regular interaction with the Group Head of Internal Audit, Compliance reports describe the status of our relationships and both when the Committee meets and also through other meetings dealings with our principal global regulators and material changes in outside the formal meeting schedule.
In 2016 an independent review the regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
The reports of the functions methodology was undertaken.
Feedback was broadly also outline key compliance issues, and the planning and execution of positive with some process enhancements adopted.
In accordance the compliance monitoring programme.
The Committee also received with the recommended practice of the Institute of Internal Auditors, reports on the operation of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, the Committee will during 2017 approve the appointment of an anti-money laundering processes and client asset controls.
independent third party to conduct a detailed Effectiveness Review of the Internal Audit function.
The appointed third party Internal Audit will be required to report its findings to the Committee during The Committee has authority to appoint or remove the Group Head of the second half of the year.
Internal Audit, who reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee is accountable for setting the objectives Internal Audit reports to the Committee set out progress against of the Group Head of Internal Audit, appraising his performance a rolling plan of audits approved by the Committee on an annual against those objectives and for recommending his remuneration basis.
These reports include significant findings from audits and to the Remuneration Committee, with advice from the Group their subsequent remediation, and recommendations to improve Chief Executive.
During the year the Committee flexed the internal audit plan to meet the evolving risks faced by the business.
The Committee also has responsibility for approving the Internal Audit budget and being satisfied that the Internal Audit function has appropriate resources and continues to be effective.
The Committee satisfies itself as to the quality, experience and expertise of the function Fund liquidity Brexit Conduct risk Following the UK referendum vote to leave the EU, the Committee In 2015 the Committee had focused on the Groups approach to conduct received an update on liquidity and controls within the three areas and culture in the business and agreed that a conduct risk framework of the business most likely to be impacted by reduced liquidity, should be developed.
The four key components were: integration into Fixed Income, Real Estate and Equities.
culture and people management: accountability and governance: the relevant policy framework: and management information.
Some third party daily-priced real estate funds held by retail investors had been closed to redemptions caused by reaction to the result of During 2016 the Committee received an update on key activities since the vote.
As Schroders chooses not to offer these types of products the framework had been introduced.
This included presentations from and Schroders Real Estate funds had little leverage and strong the Equities business in Investment and the Institutional channel in performance the principal risk for our Real Estate business had Distribution on the development of management information: the been one of market contagion.
approach to integrating people and culture metrics into conduct oversight processes: and the development of a single firm-wide Overall the Groups liquidity response to Brexit had been well planned view of conduct risk.
and executed, and the Committee agreed the business is well positioned to take advantage of any opportunities which may arise.
The firms conduct programme looks to encourage forward-looking indicators in order to identify emerging trends or heightened risk issues before an adverse event occurs.
Each stage of the employee life cycle has also been reviewed to consider culture and conduct with conduct more formally included in appraisals for 2016 onwards, while feedback on behaviours in line with Schroders values had already been added to the annual appraisal process.
More information is included in the Remuneration report on page 95.
The Committee will continue to monitor progress of the global roll out of the programme which is planned to commence in 2017.
64 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Both the annual compliance monitoring and Internal Audit plans are developed on a risk weighted basis to provide proportionate reassurance over the Groups controls for the key risks set out on pages 38 to 43.
Evaluating the performance of the Committee The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process.
The findings relating to the Committee were discussed with the Committee Chairman.
Overall, the Committee is considered to be thorough and effective.
Priorities for 2017 As well as considering the standing items of business, the Committee will also focus on the following areas during 2017: Review of the Groups risk appetite Client take-on Information security Outsource providers MiFID II readiness Conduct risk Statutory auditor transition.
Committees assessment of internal control and risk management arrangements In light of its work, the Committee was content with the effectiveness of the Groups processes governing financial and regulatory reporting and controls, its culture, ethical standards and its relationships with regulators.
The Committee was also satisfied with the appropriateness and adequacy of the Groups risk management arrangements as well as supporting risk management systems including the risk monitoring processes, internal controls framework and three lines of defence model.
Rhian Davies Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 1 March 2017 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65
