30 | 31 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has written terms of reference course of its review of the system of internal controls, which are shown on the Companys website.
Its duties the Committee has not identified, nor been advised include risk assessment: reviewing internal controls, of, any material failings or weaknesses.
Therefore a the Companys accounting policies and Financial confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not Statements prior to their release: and the Companys been considered appropriate.
The Committee is also responsible for all aspects of the Companys Following the outsourcing of the company secretarial, relationship with its external auditor including: accounting and most administration functions, the Committee also monitors the controls and risk management of R&H Fund Services Limited RHFSL.
reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual audit: The Committee also monitors the controls and risk the auditors remuneration: management of the Companys custodian, Northern Trust.
the terms of engagement: and the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the There are procedures in place to ensure that: auditor.
all transactions are accounted for accurately and Annual Report reported fully to the Board: The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report management observes the authorisation limits set and Accounts to ensure it is fair, balanced and by the Board: understandable.
there is clear segregation of duties so that no Internal controls investment transaction can be completed by one The Company does not have an internal audit function person: as the Audit Committee believes that the Companys control activities are regularly checked: and straightforward structure and small number of employees do not warrant such a function.
This is legal and regulatory obligations are met.
reviewed by the Committee annually.
The Committee recognises that such systems can only The Committee is responsible for ensuring that provide reasonable, but not guaranteed, assurance the Company has in place an effective system of against material misstatement or loss.
internal controls designed to maintain the integrity of accounting records and to safeguard the Companys Significant issues assets.
The Committee has applied the UK Corporate The Committee considers the risks that may have an Governance Code by establishing a continuous impact on the Companys Financial Statements.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Company faces.
The valuation and ownership of the Companys investments are risks.
Investments are valued in In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance accordance with the accounting policy on page 43.
Code, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the The prices of all investments are agreed by RHFSL with Companys system of internal controls at six-monthly an independent source and the ownership of each intervals.
investment agreed through confirmation received from the Companys independent global custodian, The Committees monitoring covers all controls, Northern Trust.
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally The incomplete or inaccurate recognition of income in on reviewing reports from management and the Financial Statements are also risks.
Internal control considering whether significant risks are identified, systems, including frequent reconciliations, are in place evaluated, managed and controlled, and whether to ensure income is fully accounted for.
The Board is any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied provided with information on the Companys income or require more extensive monitoring.
During the account at each meeting.
indd 30 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Report of the Audit Committee continued Re-appointment of auditor Auditor A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Assessment the Companys auditor, and to authorise the The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, was appointed Directors to fix its remuneration, will be proposed in 2002.
The Committee reviews annually the services at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
provided and the related fees.
The corporate governance provisions relating to audit tenure have Disclosure of information to auditor been reviewed and the Committee is of the opinion It is the Companys policy to allow the auditor there is no need to conduct a competitive tender at the unlimited access to its records.
The fees for audit and non-audit services confirm that, so far as each of them is aware, were 34,600 2015: 29,100 and 19,800 2015: there is no relevant audit information of which 16,850 respectively.
Non-audit services include: tax the Companys auditor is unaware and they compliance 6,800: assurance services 5,000 and have taken all the steps which they should have pension scheme audit 8,000. taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to The Audit Committee reviews and approves any nonestablish that the Companys auditor is aware of audit services provided by the auditor and assesses that information.
This confirmation is given and the impact of any non-audit work on the ability of the should be interpreted in accordance with the auditor to remain independent.
provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Partner rotation The audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated every five years.
Andrew Partridge, the current audit partner, was appointed in 2015.
Independence The Committee has satisfied itself of the continuing independence of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee confirms Ian Hunter the level of non-audit work undertaken does not Chairman of the Audit Committee compromise independence.
