| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report Board committees Introduction The Board has established three committees: Audit, The Board is committed to implementing high levels Remuneration and Nomination.
Each of the committees of corporate governance within the Company in has written terms of reference which are reviewed at order to safeguard the interests of its shareholders, to least annually and clearly define their responsibilities manage the risks that the Company faces and to ensure and duties.
The terms of reference for these the efficient and effective running of the Company.
committees are available on the Companys website Sound governance is at the heart of the Boards efforts www.
co. uk to ensure that the Company continues to meet its investment objective.
The following statement reports Audit Committee on how the Board, supported by the committees that The Audit Committee comprises the whole Board and it has established, has continued to achieve these aims is chaired by Ian Hunter.
It has reviewed the matters over the course of the year.
within its terms of reference and reports as follows: Statement of compliance it has approved the Financial Statements for the The Board has reviewed the principles set out in the year to 31 October 2016: UK Corporate Governance Code revised 2014, which it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys can be found at www.
uk and the Association of internal controls and risk management: Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance it has reviewed the need for a separate internal by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide audit function: for Investment Companies published in July 2016, both of which can be found at www.
co. uk The it has recommended to the Board that a resolution Company is a member of the Association of Investment be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment Companies.
of the external auditor and it has considered the proposed terms of their engagement: The Board believes that the way the Company is it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the governed is consistent with the principles of the UK external auditor and agreed that any non-audit Corporate Governance Code and that the Company services provided by the auditor must be approved has complied with its provisions, except that: by the Audit Committee in advance: and there is no senior independent director: and it has satisfied itself that the Strategic Report is the Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee.
consistent with the Financial Statements.
The Board considers that, as all Directors are Further details are set out in the Report of the Audit independent and non-executive, there is no Committee on pages 30 and 31.
The terms of reference compelling case for appointing a senior independent are available from the Companys website.
The Board further considers that the Chairman is independent in character and judgement and, Remuneration Committee therefore, that there is no reason for James Will not to The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee be a member of the Audit Committee.
to recommend pay and conditions for the Board and employees.
It has written terms of reference Directors independence which are shown on the Companys website.
The The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and Committee is chaired by Jane Lewis.
Further details of experience are considered to add significantly to Directors remuneration are included in the Directors the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on Remuneration Report on pages 32 and 33. the overall length of service of any of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
The Company aims to provide levels of employee The Board believes that each Director is independent remuneration which reward responsibility and in character and judgement and that there are no achievement and are comparable with other fund relationships with the Company or its employees which management organisations operating in Scotland.
Every employee is entitled to a salary and other benefits including a contributory pension scheme.
In addition, there is a discretionary performance-related 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
indd 25 05 01 2017 08:51 26 | 27 Corporate Governance Report continued bonus scheme.
For investment staff, bonuses payable announcements, capital structure including share depend, inter alia, on individual performance, the buybacks, gearing and major contracts.
Companys NAV total return and the NAV total The Board has appointed the Companys wholly-owned return relative to comparator indices and peers.
For subsidiary, S. I. T. Savings Limited, as its Alternative other staff, bonuses depend, inter alia, on individual Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
Day-to-day performance and share price total return.
The notice management of the Company is delegated to the period for all members of staff is three months.
Companys executive management, which reports directly to the Board.
Nomination Committee Prior to each Board meeting, Directors are provided There is a Nomination Committee comprising the with a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed whole Board.
The Committee is chaired by James Will.
information on the Companys transactions, financial The Committee meets at least annually to review the position and performance.
structure, size and composition of the Board.
It has written terms of reference which are available to view The Board normally meets six times a year while the on the Companys website.
Audit and Remuneration Committees each meet three times and the Nomination Committee meets at least The Nomination Committee is responsible for annually.
Attendance at the scheduled and additional nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates meetings throughout the year is shown in the table to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Committee will evaluate the skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity of the Douglas McDougall retired from the Board on Board and, subject to the aforementioned, prepare a 29 January 2016.
He attended all Board and description of the role and capabilities required to fulfil Committee meetings that were held during the current the appointment.
financial year prior to retirement.
When Board positions become available as a result of retirement or resignation, the Committee will ensure Board and Directors performance appraisal that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
In The performance of each Director was assessed and order to recruit relevant candidates, the identification appraised by the Nomination Committee during of such candidates may be carried on in conjunction the year.
The Chairmans performance was assessed with the Board by an independent firm of consultants.
If and appraised in his absence by the other Directors.
such a process is not used, the Committee will disclose The review and assessment by the Nomination the reasons in the Corporate Governance Report or Committee of each Directors performance as well the Directors Report in the next Annual Report and as the performance of the Board as a whole and of Accounts.
its committees followed completion by each of the Directors of a written questionnaire.
The appraisals and The Committee will consider candidates on merit and assessments considered, amongst other criteria, the against objective criteria having regard to the benefits balance of skills of the Board, training and development of diversity, including gender.
requirements, the contribution of individual Directors and the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Board and committee meetings committees.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which includes investment strategy, accounting and financial controls, dividends and Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended James Will 9 9 3 3 3 3 1 1 Hamish Buchan 9 9 3 3 3 3 1 1 Russell Napier 9 9 3 3 3 3 1 1 Ian Hunter 9 9 3 3 3 3 1 1 Jane Lewis 9 9 3 3 3 3 1 1 Mick Brewis 9 9 3 3 3 3 1 1 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
indd 26 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Following this process it was concluded that the default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company, and its committees continues to be effective and that any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in each Director and the Chairman remain committed to connection with criminal proceedings in which the the Company.
Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is given against him The Board currently considers that the use of external her.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply to any consultants to facilitate the evaluation process is liability to the extent that it is recovered from another unlikely to be of significant benefit to the process, person pursuant to the Directors' and officers' liability although the option of doing so is kept under review.
insurance policy which is maintained by the Company or otherwise.
Appointment and re-election of Directors The Board has direct access to the advice and services The Companys policy on the appointment of Directors of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for is shown on the Companys website, ensuring that Board procedures are followed and www.
co. uk that applicable regulations are complied with.
The Jane Lewis and Mick Brewis were appointed in Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring December 2015 and were elected by shareholders timely delivery of information and reports to the Board at the AGM on 29 January 2016.
No external agency and for compliance with the Companys statutory was used in the selection process as the Nomination obligations.
Committee was itself able to identify a long list of There is a procedure for Directors to seek independent high quality and diverse candidates with the skills, professional advice at the expense of the Company.
New Directors receive an induction from the Diversity policy Companys Manager and the Company Secretary on The Company recognises the need to consider the joining the Board, and all Directors will receive other diversity of its staff and its Board of Directors.
As a relevant training as necessary.
general principle, the Company will show no bias for age, gender, race, sexual orientation, marital status, Hamish Buchan has served as a Director for more religion, nationality, ethnic or national origins, or than nine years.
After formal performance evaluation, disability in considering the appointment of staff or the Board confirms that Hamish Buchan continues to board members and will ensure appointments are perform effectively and with great commitment.
It is the made on the basis of merit against objective criteria.
Boards current intention that Hamish Buchan will retire as a Director at the AGM to be held in 2018.
The structure, size and composition of the Board of Directors are reviewed at least annually by the All Directors are appointed for initial three year terms, Nomination Committee ensuring an appropriate renewable every three years, subject to the Companys balance of skills, experience, independence and policy for all Directors to stand for re-election annually.
In considering new appointments to Each of the Directors has made a valuable and effective the Board, the Committee recognises the benefits contribution to the Company and the Board therefore of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The recommends that shareholders vote in favour of their Committee will consider both male and female re-election.
candidates and ensure appointments are made on Directors letters of appointment will be available for the basis of merit against objective criteria.
As all inspection at the AGM.
appointments will be based on merit and in view of the The Companys Articles of Association provide that small size of the Board, the Board does not consider it any Director or other officer of the Company may be appropriate to set diversity targets.
indemnified out of the assets of the Company against any liability incurred by him or her as a Director or Conflicts of interest other officer of the Company to the extent permitted The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of a by law.
The Company entered into deeds of indemnity company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, in favour of each of its Directors on 26 August 2016. or might have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, The deeds cover any liabilities that may be incurred with the interests of the company.
Each Director by a Director in respect of any act or omission alleged submits a list of potential conflicts prior to each or otherwise in the exercise of his or her powers or in meeting.
The other Board members consider these respect of his or her duties in relation to the Company and recommend whether or not each potential conflict including any liabilities arising from negligence, should be authorised.
indd 27 05 01 2017 08:51 28 | 29 Corporate Governance Report continued Going concern conditions, to maintain a discount at or below 9% to The accounts of the Company have been prepared on ex-income NAV, with borrowings at market value.
It is the opinion of the Directors custody and depositary risk: failures of control by that, as most of the Companys assets are readily the depositary, custodian or third party service realisable and exceed its liabilities, it is expected that providers may result in the compromise of the the Company will continue in operational existence Companys assets.
The viability statement, operational risk: failure including breaches under which the Directors assess the prospects of the of cyber security of the Companys or third Company over a longer period, is contained on page party service providers systems could result in a 14. misappropriation of assets, or inability to report.
The Company has a business continuity plan in Internal controls and risk management place and requires all third party service providers The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible to demonstrate adequate control and continuity for the Companys systems of internal control and plans.
for reviewing their effectiveness on an annual basis.
These and other risks facing the Company are reviewed A process has been implemented for identifying, regularly by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The evaluating and managing risks faced by the Company.
existence of assets is subject to annual external audit.
This process has been in place throughout the year A detailed risk map, which identifies significant risks ended 31 October 2016 and up to the date that the relevant to the Company, is assessed twice per year.
These risks include corporate strategy, investment The risk management process and systems of internal decisions, financial and regulatory activities, business control are designed to manage rather than eliminate continuity and service providers.
Further information the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objective.
on risks is detailed in note 17 to the accounts on pages It should be recognised that such systems can only 53 to 58 and on internal controls in the Report of the provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against Audit Committee on page 30. material mis-statement or loss.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Relations with shareholders Company are as follows: The Company recognises the value of good investment and market price risk: the holding of communication with its shareholders.
The management securities and investing activities involve certain meets regularly with private client stockbrokers, wealth inherent risks.
The Company holds a portfolio managers and the Companys major institutional which is well diversified across industrial and shareholders.
The Board receives regular briefings geographical areas to help minimise these risks.
Newsletters are sent to shareholders during the year and are posted on the interest rate risk: all debenture stocks and secured Companys website.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company is the liquidity risk: most of the Companys assets are main forum at which shareholders can ask questions investments in quoted equities and are readily of the Board and management.
Liquidity is reviewed when making are encouraged to attend the AGM and to vote on investment decisions.
the resolutions which are contained in the Notice foreign currency risk: the Companys overseas of Meeting on page 66 and which is posted to assets and income are subject to currency shareholders at least 21 days prior to the meeting.
Management monitors the Companys Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are exposure to foreign currencies on a weekly basis.
encouraged to vote by proxy on the resolutions.
Proxy voting figures are given after each resolution has credit risk: the failure of a counterparty could result been voted on and are published after the end of the in a loss for the Company.
deals with approved parties to agreed limits.
discount volatility: the discount at which the Any shareholder who wishes to ask a question at Companys shares trade can change.
The Company another time should write to the Chairman at 6 Albyn monitors the level of discount and has authority to Place, Edinburgh EH2 4NL.
buy back its shares so as to aim, in normal market 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
indd 28 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued repurchases are to enhance the NAV of the shares by Voting policy repurchasing shares for cancellation at prices which, Management reviews resolutions put to general after allowing for costs, improve the NAV for remaining meetings of the companies in which the Company shareholders and to allow implementation of the invests and, wherever practicable, will cast its vote, Companys discount control policy.
The maximum usually by proxy.
number of shares which may be purchased pursuant to this authority shall be 14,383,606 or, if less, 14.99% of the aggregate issued capital of the Company on the Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM date of passing of the resolution.
Directive Leverage For the purposes of the AIFM Directive, leverage Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the is any method which increases the Companys maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the the authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a percentage of of the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys exposure to its net asset value and is the shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the calculated on a gross and commitment method.
London Stock Exchange over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii Under the gross method, exposure represents the the higher price of the last independent trade and the sum of the Companys positions after deduction of highest current independent bid.
The minimum price cash balances, without taking account of any hedging which may be paid is 25p per share.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction Resolution 13 will be proposed as a special resolution of cash balances and after certain hedging and netting that requires to be passed by a three-quarters majority positions are offset against each other.
The leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved by the Board.
The AIFM is also required to comply with the gearing parameters set by the Board in relation to Carbon emissions borrowings.
The Companys carbon emissions result predominantly from its consumption of electricity at its single office.
The Companys maximum limits and actual leverage Using Defra DECCs GHG conversion factors for levels are shown below: company reporting 2015, emissions for the year to Gross Commitment September 2016 were 56.3 tonnes of CO e 2015: 55.8 2 Leverage exposure method method tonnes CO e. This equates to 0.13 tonnes of CO e 2 2 Maximum limit AIFM 200% 200% 2015: 0.13 tonnes of CO e per square metre.
2 Maximum limit Board 20% 20% The Directors Report, including the Responsibility Actual at 31 October 2016 5% 10% Statement on page 24 and the going concern statement on page 28, has been approved by the Board.
Annual General Meeting The Strategic Report on pages 12 to 15 includes The Companys 129th AGM will be held at The Royal information relating to: Dividends, Share capital and College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Discount control policy including share buybacks.
Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ on Friday 3 February 2017 at 10.30am.
The Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are all in the best interests of the Company and of the shareholders as a whole and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of them.
Resolutions 1 to 12 are self explanatory.
Resolution 13, set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on R&H Fund Services Limited page 66, seeks to renew the authority to repurchase Company Secretary shares until 3 May 2018.
The principal reasons for such 3 January 2017 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
