Governance Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee consists of all independent Directors.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company is The members of the Committee consider that they have the therefore considered unnecessary.
requisite financial skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities Financial Reporting of the Committee.
Mr WG McQueen, Chairman of the Committee, The Committee considers that the most significant area of risk is a Chartered Accountant.
Following the retirement of Mr WG likely to impact the Financial Statements is the existence and McQueen at the Annual General Meeting on 30 June 2016, valuation of investments as they represent 99.2% of total assets.
Mr LJ Dowley will become Chairman of the Committee.
Mr LJ Dowley is also a Chartered Accountant.
The Committees The majority of the investments are in quoted securities and authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of market prices are readily available from independent external reference which are available on request from the Company pricing sources.
The Committee reviewed Baillie Giffords Report Secretary and at www.
The terms of on Internal Controls which details the controls in place regarding reference are reviewed annually.
recording and pricing of investments.
The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as The Committee reviewed the Managers valuation policy for part of the Boards performance evaluation process.
investments in unquoted companies and approved the valuations of the unlisted investments following a detailed review of the valuation At least once a year the Committee meets with the external of each investment and relevant challenge where appropriate.
Auditor without any representative of the Manager being present.
The value of all the listed investments at 31 March 2016 was Main Activities of the Committee agreed to external price sources and the holdings agreed to The Committee met twice during the year and KPMG LLP, the confirmations from the Companys custodian.
Confirmations of external Auditor, attended both meetings.
Baillie Gifford & Cos uncertificated unlisted investments were obtained from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and the AIFMs relevant investee companies.
permanent risk function provided reports on their monitoring The Managers and Auditor confirmed to the Committee that they programmes for these meetings.
were not aware of any material misstatements in the context of The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the the Financial Statements as a whole.
Committee during the course of the year included the following: Audit Tender The preliminary results announcement and the annual and During the year the Company tendered its audit.
Invitations to interim reports: tender were issued to 4 audit firms, resulting in comprehensive The Companys accounting policies and practices and the proposals of a very high standard being submitted, and 3 firms implementation of the Managers updated valuation policy for being invited to present their approach in more detail to the Audit investments in unquoted companies: Committee.
In evaluating the firms, the primary focus was on The regulatory changes impacting the Company: audit quality giving specific consideration to audit approach and delivery with attention on the firms approach to unlisted The fairness, balance and understandability of the Annual investments: audit engagement team quality: insight into future Report and Financial Statements and whether it provided the developments likely to affect the Company: and independence.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Following a robust and transparent review process, where the Companys performance, business model and strategy: firms were subjected to scrutiny and appropriate challenge, the The effectiveness of the Companys internal control Board unanimously decided to reappoint KPMG as Auditor.
environment: In accordance with mandatory audit rotation requirements, the Re-appointment, remuneration and engagement letter of the Committee intends to undertake a further tender process during external Auditor: the year to 31 March 2020.
The policy on the engagement of the external Auditor to Internal Controls and Risk Management supply non-audit services: The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the management and internal controls systems as described on external Auditor: pages 27 and 28.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the The need for the Company to have its own internal audit year under review.
function: External Auditor Internal controls reports received from the Managers and To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the custodian: and external Auditor, the Committee reviewed: The arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby A report from the Auditor describing their arrangements to their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest and improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
received confirmation of their independence: and Internal Audit The extent of non-audit services provided by the external Auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2016 were The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and 4,000 and related to the certification of financial information internal controls systems and the internal audit function in place for the debenture trustee and the provision of Indian tax within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that services.
The Committee does not believe that this has a sound system of internal control which safeguards impaired the Auditors independence.
shareholders investment and the Companys assets is Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 29 Governance Report The effectiveness of the external Auditor was considered as part of the Audit tender process which facilitated comparison against other firms.
Additionally, the Committee considered: The Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: Feedback from the Secretaries on the performance of the audit team: Responses to the ICAS Annual Audit Assessment questionnaire: The Audit Quality Inspection Report from the FRC: and Detailed discussion with audit personnel to challenge audit processes and deliverables.
To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process the Committee considered and reviewed: The Auditors engagement letter: The Auditors proposed audit strategy: The audit fee: and A report from the Auditor on the conclusion of the audit.
Although KPMG LLP, or its predecessor firms, have been Auditor for over twenty six years, the audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated at least every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
Ms C Burnet, the current partner, was appointed over four years ago and will continue as partner until the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
Following KPMGs successful tender, a new audit director will be appointed with full audit sign off authority.
KPMG have confirmed that they believe they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not impaired.
KPMG also acted as Auditor to the Manager and Ms C Burnet took on the lead relationship partner role with Baillie Gifford during 2013.
A separate audit director has been responsible for the Baillie Gifford audit and KPMG had outlined the procedures that would be put in place in the unlikely event that a conflict of interest should arise.
As a result of the new mandatory auditor rotation requirements, KPMG LLP will cease to be Auditor of the Managers following conclusion of the Managers audit for this year.
Having carried out the review and tender process described above, the Committee is satisfied that the Auditor remains independent and effective.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external Auditor.
Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in connection with the financial statements are set out on pages 33 to 35.
By order of the Board Gordon McQueen Audit Committee Chairman 18 May 2016 30 Annual Report 2016
