Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high In accordance with the Code all the Directors will retire at each standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines Annual General Meeting and, if appropriate, offer themselves for how the principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code re-election.
the Code, which can be found at www.
uk and the Independence of Directors principles of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship year.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for that could interfere with the exercise of their independent investment companies and can be found at www.
Compliance Mr JPHS Scott and Mr WG McQueen have served on the Board The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout for more than nine years.
The Directors recognise the value of the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code progressive refreshing of, and succession planning for, company except that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Audit boards and the Boards composition is reviewed annually.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr JPHS Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily Scott to be a member of the Committee as he is considered to be compromise the independence or contribution of directors of independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
an investment trust company, where continuity and experience The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with can be a benefit to the board.
The Board concurs with the view the recommendations of the AIC Code.
expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
The Board Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
concluded that, notwithstanding their length of service, Mr The Board appoints the Managers and Secretaries and approves JPHS Scott and Mr WG McQueen continued to demonstrate the terms of the investment management agreement.
It has a independence of character and judgement and their skills and number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, experience were a benefit to the Board.
investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, share buy back policy, treasury matters, dividend and corporate Meetings governance policy.
A separate meeting devoted to strategy is There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed held each year.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full investment policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue and timely information is provided to the Board to enable the budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to their responsibilities.
The table below shows the Following the appointments of Mr LJ Dowley on 4 September attendance record for the core Board and Committee Meetings 2015 and Professor PH Maxwell on 1 April 2016 the Board held during the year.
The Annual General Meeting was attended comprises seven Directors, all of whom are non-executive, by all Directors serving at that date with the exception of although Mr WG McQueen is retiring as a Director at the Professor JA Kay who had been called as an expert witness in forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the High Court and submitted his apologies to the meeting.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Directors Attendance at Meetings Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Audit Nomination executive responsibility for investment management has been Board Committee Committee delegated to the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited and, in the context of a Board Number of meetings 6 2 1 comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive John Scott 6 2 1 officer.
Professor JA Kay is the Senior Independent Director.
Justin Dowley The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and appointed 4 September 2015 3 1 1 experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership Michael Gray retired 23 June 2015 2 1 and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Professor John Kay 5 2 1 Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on Fiona McBain 6 2 1 pages 22 and 23.
Gordon McQueen 6 2 1 There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent Dr Paola Subacchi 6 2 1 professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Professor Patrick Maxwell was appointed following the year end on Appointments 1 April 2016.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection Nomination Committee on request.
The Nomination Committee consists of the independent nonexecutive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a of the Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek and at such other times as may be required.
The Committee has election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
written terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, 26 Annual Report 2016 Governance Report identifying and nominating new candidates for appointment to A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments the Board, Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
was carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that The Committee also considers whether Directors should be they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
recommended for re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is There was no increase in the overall level of the Chairmans other responsible for considering Directors potential conflicts of interest commitments during the year.
and for making recommendations to the Board on whether or It is intended that the evaluation will again be externally facilitated not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Appointments to in 2019. the Board are made on merit with due regard for the benefits of diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing new directors Induction and Training is to identify the candidate with the best range of skills and New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board therefore tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Briefings does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets.
were provided during the year on industry and regulatory matters.
The Directors receive other training as necessary.
Spencer Stuart were engaged to identify potential candidates to fill the vacancy following the retirement from the Board of Remuneration Mr MM Gray at the Annual General Meeting on 23 June 2015.
As all the Directors are non-executive, there is no requirement Additionally, as Mr WG McQueen is not offering himself for refor a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Spencer considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by Stuart were also engaged to identify potential candidates to fill shareholders.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in this vacancy.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32.
Audit Committee For both vacancies, the Committee identified the skills and experience that would be required, having due regard for The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 29 and 30. the benefits of diversity on the Board, and candidates were Internal Controls and Risk Management interviewed from a shortlist of names provided by Spencer Stuart.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys Mr Justin Dowley and Professor Patrick Maxwell were identified risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing as preferred candidates.
The systems are designed to manage rather Mr LJ Dowley brings to the Board extensive and relevant than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives investment industry experience and was appointed to the and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance Board on 4 September 2015.
Professor PH Maxwell has deep against material misstatement or loss.
knowledge in many fields of medical science and was appointed The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for to the Board on 1 April 2016. identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by The Committees terms of reference are available on request from the Company in accordance with the guidance Guidance on Risk the Company and on the Companys pages of the Managers Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business website: www.
The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation Performance Evaluation and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard During the year the Board appointed Lintstock Ltd, a firm the Companys assets and to manage its affairs properly, which assists companies with the design and execution of including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance board evaluations, to facilitate the performance evaluation controls have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries.
of the Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its Committees.
Lintstock provided a similar evaluation for The Board oversees the functions delegated to the Managers the Company in 2013 and has no other connection with the and Secretaries and the controls managed by the AIFM in Company or the Directors.
Lintstock provided questionnaires accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers which were tailored to the specific needs of the Company.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and the AIFMs permanent risk The questionnaires addressed, amongst other issues: function provide the Audit Committee with regular reports on Board and Committee composition and expertise: their monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for these departments are defined and formalised within a service level Quality of Board documentation, administration and third party agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its relationships: system of internal controls which is documented within an internal Trust oversight and priorities for change: and controls report which complies with ISAE 3402 and Technical Personal development.
Release AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report Each Director and the Chairman completed the questionnaires is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos Auditor and a and the Chairman discussed feedback with each Director.
copy is submitted to the Audit Committee.
The results were considered by the Nomination Committee.
A report identifying the material risks faced by the Company and Following this process it was concluded that the performance the key controls employed to manage these risks is reviewed by of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees the Audit Committee.
continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman remains committed to the Company.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 27 Governance Report These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly which are investments in quoted securities which are readily to the nature and extent of risks facing the Company and that realisable, exceed its liabilities significantly.
All borrowings require they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have the prior approval of the Board.
Gearing levels and compliance been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to with borrowing covenants are reviewed by the Board on a regular assess whether further action is required to manage these risks.
Accordingly, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness Financial Statements.
of the Companys risk management and internal controls systems and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on Relations with Shareholders a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the The Board places great importance on communication with year under review and up to the date of this Report.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place shareholders and their representatives and report shareholders throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in views to the Board.
The Chairman is available to meet place up to the date of approval of this Report.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by To comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers writing to them at the Companys registered office, or through Directive, BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited acts as the Companys broker, Cenkos Securities see contact details the Companys Depositary and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as its on the back cover.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying for each resolution is announced at the meeting and published at ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and www.
The notice period for the Annual monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and General Meeting is at least twenty working days.
The Depositary is liable for the loss of and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the financial instruments held in custody.
The Depositary will ensure Company at www.
that any delegate segregates the assets of the Company.
The Depositary has delegated the custody function to The Bank of Corporate Governance and Stewardship New York Mellon SA NV London Branch the Custodian.
The The Company has given discretionary voting powers to Baillie Custodian prepares a report on its key controls and safeguards Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests The Depositary provides the Audit Committee with a report on its and report their actions to the Board.
The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to The AIFM has established a permanent risk management function consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures when selecting and retaining investments and has asked the are in place and to monitor compliance with risk limits.
The AIFM Managers to take these issues into account.
The Managers do has a risk management policy which covers the risks associated not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on with the management of the portfolio, and the adequacy and the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement effectiveness of this policy is reviewed and approved at least approach whereby matters are discussed with management annually.
This review includes the risk management processes with the aim of improving the relevant policies and management and systems and limits for each risk area.
systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers The risk limits, which are set by the AIFM and approved by the statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be Board, take into account the objectives, strategy and risk profile found on the Managers website at www.
These limits, including leverage see note 20 on Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
page 55, are monitored and the sensitivity of the portfolio to key risks is undertaken periodically as appropriate to ascertain the The Managers are signatories to the United Nations Principles impact of changes in key variables in the portfolio.
Exceptions for Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project from limits monitoring and stress testing are escalated to the and are also members of the International Corporate Governance AIFM and reported to the Board along with remedial measures Network.
Going Concern By order of the Board In accordance with The Financial Reporting Councils guidance John Scott on going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken Chairman a rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going 18 May 2016 concern.
The Companys principal risks are market related and include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of 28 Annual Report 2016
