Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report The Committee has taken note of the Financial Following the decision by Malcolm Wyman and Reporting Council discussion paper on UK Board Tamara Ingram to stand down from the Board, Succession Planning and has challenged itself Committee members have devoted considerable during 2016 to ensure that the Committee is time in and outside of Committee meetings to the playing an effective role in advising the Board search and selection process for new Non-Executive onsuccessionmatters.
Directors and I would like to thank them for the dedication they have shown to this process.
The Committee supports the discussion papers recommendation that the Committee should regularly evaluate the senior management team and have a broader oversight of talent management within the Group, and has spent time this year with the Executive Directors reviewing succession plans for the Group Sir Roy Gardner Chair of the Nomination Committee Executive Management team.
Committees responsibilities Detailed terms of reference for the Committee can be found at www.
com about the-boardThe Committee leads the process for Board and-governance appointments and makes recommendations to the Board in this regard.
In fulfilling this role, the Membership and attendees Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, As at 31 December 2016, the Committee was comprised independence and knowledge on the Board and, in the only of Non-Executive Directors and the members light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the of the Committee were Sir Roy Gardner Chair, Mike role and capabilities required for every appointment.
Meetings of the Committee The Board values diversity and when recruiting new are normally attended by the Chief Executive, the Board members the issue of diversity is addressed Group HR Director, and the Group General Counsel by the Committee, with particular regard to the and Company Secretary.
percentage of women on the Board which currently Activities of the Committee during 2016 stands at 22%.
During the year the Committees key activities included: The key responsibilities of the Committee are: The appointment of a new Audit Committee Chair Reviewing the size, structure and composition The Committee focused heavily during the year of the Board: on the search for, selection and appointment of a suitable successor to Malcolm Wyman as Chair of the Recommending membership of Board Committees: Audit Committee following the decision by Malcolm Undertaking succession planning for the Chairman, to retire from the Board.
The services of external Group Chief Executive and other Directors: search consultant, Korn Ferry, were retained to assist Searching for candidates for the Board, and in identifying potential candidates.
Korn Ferry is recommending Directors for appointment: independent and a signatory to the Voluntary Code Determining the independence of Directors: of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice the Assessing whether Directors are able to commit Voluntary Code.
The Committee as a whole agreed enough time to discharge their responsibilities: the specification and considered the candidate shortlist and met separately with candidates before Reviewing induction and training needs of Directors: and unanimously recommending the appointment of John Recommending the process and criteria for assessing Rishton to the Board.
the effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees and the contribution of the Chairman and individual Directors to the effectiveness of the Board and helping to implement these assessments.
90 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Initial work on the appointment of a new NonGender diversity: Board Executive Director Following the resignation of Tamara Ingram and the consideration of succession planning for the remaining Non-Executive Directors, a considered search commenced to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director to the Board.
In instigating this search, particular consideration has been given to succession planning for the Remuneration Committee members.
The services of an external search consultant, Lygon Group, have been retained to assist in identifying potential candidates.
Lygon Group is independent and is also a signatory to the Voluntary Code.
The Committee agreed the specification and continues to consider Male 78% the candidate shortlist and expects to recommend a Female 22% suitable candidate to the Board later this year.
Reviewing Board succession planning The Committee held a meeting during the year to specifically consider Board succession.
With the Gender diversity: senior management support of the Group HR Director, the Committee reviewed the succession processes put in place by the HR team and also considered the immediate, emerging and long-term succession plan for each key Board role.
This took into account discussion on background, experience, sector knowledge, functional knowledge and consideration of good practice guidelines in relation to Board appointments and diversity.
Reviewing the process for Executive Committee succession planning The Committee received an overview of the existing processes in place for Male 83% Executive Committee succession planning and Female 17% received a briefing from the Group HR Director on the current talent pipeline for each executive role, ahead of their wider planned review of succession plans for each key Executive Committee role during 2017.
2017 priorities and performance review The Committees performance was assessed as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
It was concluded that the Committee operated effectively.
During 2017, the Committee will continue to focus on succession planning and supporting the diverse composition of the Board.
