Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Group Risk Committee Report In February 2016, the Board approved the embedding the risk management framework across establishment of a new Group Risk Committee.
The Committee has made a good start as part of a broader reorganisation of Board in tackling this demanding agenda, beginning with Committees.
This change reflected the importance detailed work clarifying risk definitions, appetites that the Board attaches to improving its oversight and tolerances.
The Committee regularly reviews of risk-related matters across the Company and the Company's top risks, changing risk profiles and to strengthening the Companys capabilities for emerging trends and the effectiveness of existing assessing and managing risk.
In addition, a regular series of technical and regional deep dives has During the course of the year the Company appointed commenced with a review of Catastrophic Risk and a new Group Risk and Compliance Director.
The the approach to risk management in the Americas.
Committee has spent some time in considering his first assessment of the maturity of the Companys risk management and agreeing a forward work programme.
This focuses on systematically reviewing Rachel Lomax the Groups top risks and overseeing progress in Chair of the Group Risk Committee Committees responsibilities of the Committee are attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer, the Group The Committee advises the Board on the Companys General Counsel and Company Secretary and the overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, taking Group Risk and Compliance Director.
account of the current and prospective macroeconomic and financial environments.
The key responsibilities of Activities of the Committee during 2016 the Committee are: During the year the Committees key activities included: Overseeing the effectiveness of the Company's risk Receiving detailed updates regarding the Companys management framework, including the assessment of principal risks, detailing key changes and trends, and the principal risks facing the Company and the action emerging risks: being taken by management to mitigate risks that are Challenging and supporting the new Group Risk outside the Company's risk appetite: and Compliance Director in his work plan for Challenging and advising the Board on the current improving enhancing and embedding the risk risk exposures of the Company and future risk management framework: strategy, and reviewing regular risk management Agreeing the focus and scope of the quarterly reports from management which enable the Committee meetings and a detailed forward Committee to consider the process for risk agenda for the Committee: identification and management: Assessing how key Group risks are controlled and Undertaking an in-depth review of Catastrophic Risk, monitored by management: one of the Companys principal risks, and reviewing how the risk is currently managed and the activities In conjunction with the Audit Committee, reviewing being undertaken to better define, understand and the Companys overall risk assessment processes that mitigate this risk: and inform the Boards decision-making, ensuring both qualitative and quantitative metrics are used: and Receiving a presentation from members of the Serco Americas Executive Team charged with risk Reviewing the Companys capability to identify and management to better understand the Divisions manage emerging risks, in conjunction with the other risk management processes and, as a part of this Board Committees as appropriate.
presentation, undertaking a detailed review on one Detailed terms of reference for the Committee of the Divisions principal risks Major Information can be found at www.
and-governance 2017 priorities and focus Membership and attendees During 2017, the Committee will focus on undertaking The Committee was comprised solely of Non-Executive detailed deep-dive reviews into other Group principal Directors during the year and as at the date of this risks and will meet with each Divisional team to better report the members of the Committee were Rachel understand their approach to risk management.
Lomax Chair, Mike Clasper and John Rishton.
Meetings 80 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Sercos approach to managing business risks and internal control Serco has an internal control framework which completed SMS self-assessments to be validated.
The includes financial, operational, compliance and quality and robustness of the Compliance Assurance risk management controls.
These are designed to Programme is currently under further development in manage and minimise risks that would adversely order to improve its effectiveness.
affect services to our customers and to safeguard Roles and responsibilities The Group Risk and shareholders investments, our assets, our people Compliance Function is responsible for managing the and our reputation collectively business risks.
SMS and for the development and implementation Internal controls and key processes are defined within of policies and standards associated with Risk the Serco Management System SMS together with Management and Compliance Assurance.
The clear definitions of those individuals responsible Function is the custodian of the Group's Risk Register for ensuring compliance.
To provide management and provides risk management oversight, assurance assurance that these controls are effective, a 'three and challenge.
It is also custodian of the Group lines of defence' compliance model has been Compliance Assurance Programme, ensuring it is risk implemented to test business compliance.
The based and that material controls, mitigating the Group Group's Compliance Assurance Programme defines principal risks, are being effectively implemented.
and reports on second line of defence compliance Third line of defence Together with external activity and the Internal Audit Programme defines and audits undertaken across the Company, Internal reports on third line of defence compliance activity.
Audit provides an independent assessment of the First line of defence We seek to minimise the design and operating effectiveness of the Company's probability and impact of business risks through governance, risk management and control frameworks the consistent implementation of the SMS, seeking that are in place to manage risk.
The Internal Audit to ensure that appropriate processes and controls team carries out an annual programme of risk-based are in place, and that appropriately trained staff audits reporting findings to the Audit Committee.
The seek to ensure that customer, legal and regulatory audit programme is approved by the Audit Committee requirements are being adhered to, and if not that and is continually revised throughout the year to adequate plans are in place to mitigate.
In 2016, we ensure it remains focused on appropriate areas.
The repeated the SMS self-assessment process to enable in-house Internal Audit team uses PwC as a co-sourced Contract Managers and other Leaders to self-assess resource where appropriate.
their compliance with the SMS and increase awareness Roles and responsibilities The Group Head of of SMS requirements.
In doing so, self-assessment Internal Audit reports functionally to the Chair of the recipients have developed action plans to address any Audit Committee and is responsible for the delivery gaps.
While SMS controls are designed to mitigate of the Internal Audit programme, ensuring that it is and minimise business risks, these risks cannot be risk-based and aligned with the overall strategy of completely eliminated.
controls can provide reasonable assurance against misstatement or loss, this cannot be absolute.
These three lines of defence are overseen and challenged by the Executive Committee and the Roles and responsibilities Functions and Divisions Board, which undertake a quarterly review of the within the Company are responsible for identifying Group Risk Register and review individual risks as and managing risks in line with SMS Policy and required.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk Standards and implementing associated controls.
management and internal control and is supported Second line of defence A Group Compliance in these duties by the Group Risk Committee and Assurance Programme has been implemented which formally reviews the findings of the overall Internal seeks to ensure that a consistent approach is applied Audit programme.
across the Company in assuring compliance with The Board confirms that there has been a focus key controls.
Serco Group have mandated minimum on the three lines of defence for the year under requirements for each Division to include in their review and up to the date of approval of the 2016 Compliance Assurance Plans in order to address Annual Report and Accounts.
principal risks which include a minimum sample of 81
