STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS contracts in the Aerospace Division where customer contributions Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to the date of transition to IFRS has 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED of goods may be received to facilitate the Groups fulfilment of the been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being tested Senior plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Basis of consolidation customer contracts.
The standard requires such goods to be treated for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on the The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial as non-cash consideration and recognised at their fair value in revenue GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in inside back cover.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal Statements of Senior plc and the entities controlled by it its subsidiaries and cost of sales when the performance obligations in the customer determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
activities are set out in Note 4 and on pages 1 to 35. made up to 31 December 2016.
Control is achieved when Senior plc has contracts are met.
This introduces timing differences when comparing the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an invested Revenue recognition Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups to the current recognition.
There is no impact on the timing of receipt of entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic cash consideration, which is determined within the underlying customer receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the contracts.
The required adjustment expected at the transition date will normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related These Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which acquisition method.
The consideration transferred for each acquisition be impacted by future changes taxes.
is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
is the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets such as customer contract renewals, terminations and modifications, transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity interests issued as well as exchange rate fluctuations.
Revenue from the sales of goods is recognised on delivery in 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any accordance with the terms and conditions of sale, which is when the The process of implementation is complex, as all Divisions will be Basis of accounting asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
significant risks and rewards of ownership and effective control of the affected and may need to implement new information systems and These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets goods has passed to the customer, recovery of the consideration is processes to collect the required information.
The Group will continue International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured probable, and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be to monitor the impact until the transition date, providing further European Union and they therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
quantitative and qualitative measures as progress is made on Regulation.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in implementation planning.
Funded development revenue is recognised based upon fair value of for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
They have also been the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests work performed to the Balance Sheet date and assessed with reference prepared on the going concern basis as set out in the Financial Review proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Effective for annual periods beginning 1 January to completed contract milestones which have been accepted by on pages 20 to 23.
The Directors have, at the time of approving these 2019, subject to EU endorsement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are the customer.
Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and This standard, which will replace IAS 17, requires lessees to recognise included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence assets and liabilities for all leases, unless the lease term is 12 months or Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going less or the underlying asset is low value.
As at 31 December 2016, the outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
concern basis of accounting in preparing these Financial Statements.
The results of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity Group holds a significant number of operating leases which currently, Dividend income from investments is recognised when the accounting method.
under IAS 17, are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term Changes in accounting policies shareholders legal rights to receive payment have been established.
During the year, no new accounting standards or amendments to existing Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of Leasing standards became effective which had a material impact on these subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used Retrospective application in the comparative year ending 31 December Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Financial Statements.
At the date of authorisation of these Financial by the Group.
The Group expects that it will not take this optional substantially transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Statements, a number of new standards and amendments to existing application and will apply the standard from the transitional date using All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
standards have been issued but are not yet effective and, for IFRS 16, the modified retrospective approach, adjusting opening retained earnings eliminated on consolidation.
not yet endorsed by the EU.
They have not been adopted early in these and not re-stating comparatives.
This involves calculating the right-of-use Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Financial Statements.
A summary of the impact review performed on asset and lease liability based on the present value of remaining lease Goodwill Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum each standard is given below.
None of these changes will have an effect payments on all applicable lease contracts as at the transition date.
Goodwill arising on consolidation is measured as the excess of the lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The on net cash from operating activities nor on free cash flow.
consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as The Group has initiated a process to collect operating lease information the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between a IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
Effective for annual periods beginning across all the Divisions in order to assess the cumulative adjustment interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation in order to 1 January 2018, EU endorsed in 2016. on transition.
Based on an initial analysis, were the new requirements identifiable net assets acquired.
It is recognised as an asset and achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the This standard covers the classification, measurement, impairment adopted in 2016, profit before tax would decrease by an immaterial reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the Income Statement.
and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities together amount, whilst lease liabilities and property, plant and equipment are immediately through the Consolidated Income Statement and is not with a new hedge accounting model.
It will replace IAS 39 Financial estimated to increase between 50m and 70m.
This is expected to Rentals payable under operating leases are expensed on a straight-line subsequently reversed.
The Group does not expect the transition to this standard result in an increase of the Groups principal lending covenant, the ratio basis over the term of the relevant lease.
to have a material impact on the Financial Statements.
of net debt to EBITDA by 0.2x to 0.5x, except where it is determined If the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into an operating at constant accounting standards.
The ranges disclosed reflect the interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous b IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Effective for lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
sensitivity of the adjustment to a -3 percentage point movement in equity interest in the acquiree is less than the fair value of the net assets annual periods beginning 1 January 2018, EU endorsed in 2016. the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the future cash acquired i. e. bargain purchase, the difference is credited to the Foreign currencies This standard requires the separation of performance obligations within flow commitments.
The discount rate, the renewal of and changes Consolidated Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are contracts with customers and the contractual value to be allocated to to the lease portfolio and exchange rates on translation of financial recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the each of the performance obligations.
Revenue is then recognised as Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, statements of non-Sterling operations are all subject to change in future transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities each performance obligation is satisfied.
This standard will replace to the cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from years, which will impact the actual transitional adjustment as at the that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates existing revenue recognition standards.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated expected transition date.
prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an Retrospective application in the comparative year ending 31 December value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the The Group will continue to monitor the impact until the transition date, indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of 2017 is optional.
The Group expects that it will not take this optional rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is providing further quantitative and qualitative measures as progress is application and will apply the standard from the transitional date using Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign made on implementation planning.
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated the cumulative effect method.
This involves calculating the relevant currency are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation to the CGU and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis adjustments required for contracts not completed as at the transition d None of the amendments to existing standards are expected to are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss date of 1 January 2018. have a significant impact on the Financial Statements when they differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, subject to meeting An initial impact assessment has been performed by reviewing all On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the the requirements under IAS 21. contract types across the Group.
This assessment highlighted that if the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the standard were to be applied in 2016, the cumulative impact on adoption In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the profit or loss on disposal.
would not be material to either the Groups reported revenue or profit Group enters into forward contracts see section below on derivative before tax.
The majority of this required adjustment would relate to financial instruments and hedging for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
80 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 81 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Taxation The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less the costs to 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit sell and the value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas Depreciation is charged to write off the cost of an asset on a straight-line differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, and is charged from the it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average time an asset becomes available for its intended use.
Annual rates are in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of exchange rates for the period.
Exchange rate differences arising, if as follows: deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax future cash flows have not been adjusted.
any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation Freehold land Nil rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its Freehold buildings 2% sheet date.
expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its Leasehold buildings o ver their expected useful lives on the same Provisions for tax uncertainties are included within current tax liabilities recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a basis as owned assets or, where shorter, on the balance sheet.
There are transactions and activities that the immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity over the lease term.
Group engages in where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain and in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
and translated at the closing rate on the relevant balance sheet date.
Plant and equipment 5% 33% a provision may be made against the tax benefit.
For example, the Group Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount The exchange rates for the major currencies applied in the translation The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is seeks to price transactions between Group companies as if they were of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable of results were as follows: unrelated parties in compliance with OECD transfer pricing principles determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount of the asset at disposal and is recognised in the and the laws of the relevant jurisdictions and this involves a degree of Average Average Year-end Year-end carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment rates rates rates rates uncertainty.
Provisions against uncertainties are established based on income statement.
loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an 2016 2015 2016 2015 management judgement of the range of likely tax outcomes in open Other intangible assets impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the US dollar 1.36 1.53 1.24 1.47 years and in consideration of the strength of technical arguments.
Other intangible assets include computer software and intangible assets relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the Euro 1.23 1.37 1.17 1.35 When making this assessment, the Group utilises specialist in-house acquired as part of a business combination.
reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
tax knowledge and experience and takes into consideration specialist Government grants tax advice by third-party advisers on specific items.
The cost of acquiring computer software including associated Inventories Government grants received for items of a revenue nature are implementation and development costs where applicable is classified Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on recognised as income over the period necessary to match them with as an intangible asset.
Costs associated with maintaining computer comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
an appropriate allocation of production overheads.
Cost is calculated the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the Capitalised computer software is amortised over its estimated useful using the first-in, first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the Government grants relating to investment in property, plant and computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance life of between three and five years on a straight-line basis, and is stated estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and the equipment are deducted from the initial carrying value of the related sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be available against Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination principally Financial instruments Operating profit which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets comprise customer relationships, contracts and trade names.
They Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes Operating profit is stated before investment income and finance costs and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises are shown at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and relating to external borrowings and retirement benefit obligations.
from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business amortisation at the rates of between three and five years on a straightderecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Retirement benefit costs combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects line basis.
Financial instruments are classified as cash and cash equivalents, bank Payments to defined contribution retirement plans are charged as an neither the Groups taxable profit nor its accounting profit.
Internally generated intangible assets research and overdrafts and loans, obligations under finance leases, trade receivables, expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences development expenditure trade payables, deferred consideration receivable, other receivables and benefit plans are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups other payables, as appropriate.
where the Groups obligations under the plans are equivalent to those joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal development activities is recognised if all the following conditions arising in a defined contribution retirement plan.
Non-derivative financial assets are categorised as loans and receivables of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary are met: and non-derivative financial liabilities are categorised as other financial For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
i. an asset is created that can be separately identified: liabilities.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities that are not designated is determined using the Projected Unit Method, with full actuarial The carrying value of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance and effective as hedging instruments are categorised as financial assets valuations being carried out on a triennial basis, and updated at each ii.
it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic sheet date and reduced to the extent it is no longer probable that at fair value through profit or loss and financial liabilities at fair value balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full benefits: and sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the through profit or loss, respectively.
The classification depends on the in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
nature and purpose of the financial assets and liabilities and is determined Income Statement and are presented in the Statement of at the time of initial recognition.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based basis over their useful lives.
Trade receivables Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the on tax laws and rates that have been enacted at the balance sheet date.
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their benefits are already vested.
Otherwise, it is amortised on a straight-line Development work is also carried out on a funded basis.
In such Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated basis over the period until the benefits become vested.
circumstances the costs are accumulated in inventory and are when it relates to items charged or credited to Other Comprehensive irrecoverable amounts.
These are recognised in the Income Statement recognised when the related billings are made.
Any amounts held The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet Income or directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Significant in inventory are subject to normal inventory valuation principles.
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as with in Other Comprehensive Income or equity.
financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter Otherwise, expenditure on research and development activities adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by the bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in Property, plant and equipment is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
fair value of scheme assets.
Any net asset resulting from this calculation payments are considered indicators that the asset is impaired.
The Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or is limited to the past service cost plus the present value of available carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the Balance Sheet refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts at their historical cost, or at modified historical cost, being a revaluation written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any undertaken in 1988 which has been taken as the effective cost on of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any transition to IFRS.
Land and buildings were revalued to fair value account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated at the date of revaluation.
are recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables are in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where The Group does not intend to conduct annual revaluations.
derecognised when factored, without recourse, through third-party the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other financial institutions the Factors.
The risks and rewards of ownership assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashFixtures, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated and right to receive cash flows of the trade receivables are transferred generating unit to which the asset belongs.
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
82 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 83 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not Critical accounting judgements Income taxes 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED In determining the Group provisions for income tax and deferred tax, qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement The following key accounting judgements have been made when Cash and cash equivalents as they arise.
applying the Groups accounting policies: it is necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short-term jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires Retirement benefit obligations To the extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that has been of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge The UK Plan retirement benefit obligation is discounted at a rate set provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high Non-derivative financial liabilities provisions held in the period the determination is made.
The carrying instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted quality corporate bonds.
Significant judgement is required when setting Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the amount of net current tax liability and deferred tax liability at 31 transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to the criteria for bonds to be included in the population from which the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of December 2016 was 20.8m 2015 15.4m and 48.6m 2015 occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred yield curve is derived.
The most significant criteria considered for the calculating the amortised financial liability and of allocating interest over 40.2m, respectively.
Further details on these estimates are set out to the Income Statement for the period.
selection of bonds include the issue size of the corporate bonds, quality the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly in Notes 10 and 21 of the bonds and the identification of outliers which are excluded.
discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised in the Income Management follows actuarial advice from a third party when 3.
REVENUE the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
The carrying amount of Groups carrying amount on initial recognition.
For borrowings, their carrying value An analysis of the Group's revenue is as follows: retirement benefit obligations at 31 December 2016 was a liability of Assets and disposal groups held for sale includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
Year ended Year ended 14.4m and an asset of 4.0m 2015 net liability of 12.6m.
Further Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be 2016 2015 Equity instruments details and sensitivities from changes in estimates are set out in Note 35. recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the business.
Where a m m Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value group of assets and their directly associated liabilities are to be disposed Sale of goods 917.0 849.5 Key sources of estimation and uncertainty of the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
of in a single transaction, such disposal groups are also classified as held When applying the Groups accounting policies, management must for sale.
For this to be the case, the asset or disposal group must be 4.
SEGMENT INFORMATION Derivative financial instruments and hedging make assumptions and estimates concerning the future that affect the available for immediate sale in its present condition, and management The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and The Group reports its segment information as two operating Divisions must be committed to and have initiated a plan to sell the asset or changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The the amounts of revenue and expenses recognised during the period.
according to the market segments they serve, Aerospace and Flexonics.
disposal group which, when initiated, was expected to result in a Group uses foreign exchange contracts and, on occasion, interest Such assumptions are based upon factors including historical For management purposes, the Aerospace Division is managed as two completed sale within 12 months.
Assets that are classified as held for rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The use of financial experience, the observance of trends in the industries in which the sub-divisions, Aerostructures and Fluid Systems, in order to enhance sale are not depreciated.
Assets or disposal groups that are classified as derivatives is governed by the Groups Treasury Policies as approved Group operates, and information available from the Groups customers management oversight: however, these are aggregated as one reporting held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair by the Board of Directors, which provides written principles on the use and other external sources.
Accounting estimates will, by definition, segment as they service similar markets and customers in accordance value less costs to sell.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments seldom equal the related actual results.
The key sources of estimation with IFRS 8.
The Flexonics Division is managed as a single division.
and uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant risk Provisions The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
as the Group's accounting policies described in Note 2 and the sales and liabilities within the next financial year include: legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the These are categorised as at fair value through profit or loss and are between segments are carried out at arm's length.
Adjusted operating Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the Goodwill impairment testing profit, as described in Note 9, is the key measure reported to the can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured Income Statement.
There is inherent subjectivity in impairment testing of the Groups Group's Executive Committee for the purpose of resource allocation at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the goodwill balance of 318.8m at 31 December 2016 which is significant.
and assessment of segment performance.
Investment income, finance The Group designates certain hedging instruments in respect of obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and The estimates in relation to goodwill impairment testing relate primarily costs and tax are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity foreign currency risk as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
They are not discounted to to the achievability of the long-term business plans and the is driven by the central tax and treasury function.
hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between present value if the effect is not material.
macroeconomic and related modelling assumptions underlying the the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk Segment assets include directly attributable computer software assets, valuation process for each group of cash generating units.
Further Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging property, plant and equipment, and working capital assets.
Goodwill, details are set out in Note 13. has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and the plan has been transactions.
The Group also documents, both at hedge inception and intangible assets from acquisitions, cash, deferred and current tax and communicated to the affected parties.
Provisions for the expected on an ongoing basis, whether the hedging instrument that is used in Inventory net realisable value other financial assets except for working capital are not allocated to cost for warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair Management assesses the carrying value of inventory to ensure that segments for the purposes of reporting financial performance to the are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products.
values or cash flows of the hedged item.
it is held at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Where necessary, Group's Executive Committee.
management makes an estimate to write-down inventory to its net Share-based payments Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are Segment liabilities include directly attributable working capital liabilities.
The Group held an inventory balance at the year-end The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based designated and are effective as a cash flow hedge are recognised Debt, finance leases, retirement benefit obligations, deferred and of 154.4m 2015 126.9m.
directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately current tax and other financial liabilities except for working capital in the Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment The Group holds a number of customer work packages in the Aerospace The Group has issued equity-settled share-based payments to certain are not allocated to segments for the purposes of reporting financial or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a Division, which are tested for onerous conditions at each Balance Sheet employees.
The fair value excluding the effect of non-market-related performance to the Group's Executive Committee.
liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the date.
A significant change in production costs or in the execution to conditions, as determined at the grant date, is expensed on a straightassociated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been deliver planned cost savings in the next financial year could result in line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset unavoidable costs associated with one or more of these work packages number of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset to exceed the economic benefits expected to be received over their of non-market-related conditions.
or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Income life.
In such cases, a provision for the resulting present obligation will Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for the share Statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net be recognised.
option plans, and a binomial model for the share awards under the 2005 profit or loss.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the The liability in respect of equity-settled amounts is included in equity.
hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the Income Statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative are also recognised in the Income Statement.
If the hedge is effective, these entries will offset in the Income Statement.
84 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 85
