Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report Following my appointment as Chairman of the Audit The Code invites the Committee to report on the Committee in November 2016, I am pleased to significant issues considered during the year.
Full present the Committees report for the year ended details are contained on the opposite page.
I would firstly like to echo the also highlight that my initial focus as Committee comments of Sir Roy Gardner within this Annual Chairman has been on: Report and thank Malcolm Wyman for the significant Financial Reporting Controls: and commitment and energy he demonstrated during his tenure as Chairman of the Committee and to Meeting with the Finance Leadership team personally thank him for the time he gave to me in and understanding the risks and opportunities ensuring an orderly handover before he stepped surrounding the current Finance Transformation down from the Board.
The Audit Committee has a fundamental role to During 2017, the Committee will focus on supporting play in reviewing, monitoring and challenging the management in the continued delivery of the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and finance transformation project and will challenge internal control processes.
The Committee is made the continued use of APMs as the Company begins up solely of Non-Executive Directors to allow it to to move away through the Transform phase of the fulfil this role and in 2016 has focused on supporting Companys strategy.
and challenging management to reach balanced judgements on Onerous Contract Provisions OCPs, the financial reporting control environment and the use of Alternative Performance Measures APMs in the John Rishton Companys published financial statements.
Chair of the Audit Committee This review and challenge has taken several forms.
The Committee considered whether the Company had robust systems and procedures in place for monitoring OCPs.
To support this, the Committee also reviewed the Groups accounting systems, policies and procedures.
Taking these into consideration, the Committee reviewed the judgements made by management to confirm that the financial statements produced during the year were reliable and provided the true and fair view expected.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups financial risk management processes and associated internal controls supported by Internal Audit and the External Auditor.
82 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Key areas of focus Issue and Significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and Conclusion Contract performance, including Onerous Contract Provisions OCPs As part of the 2014 Strategy Review, The Committee has regularly reviewed and The Committee agreed with Management the Contract and Balance Sheet challenged Managements assumptions and main and the External Auditor that the overall Review led to the establishment of areas of judgement in relation to the performance level of provision was appropriate when material OCPs.
of the Companys key contracts, with particular taking into account the range of possible focus on material OCP positions and, with the outcomes.
support of the External Auditor, agreed that, The Committee also concluded that the while accounting for OCPs remained an area of assumptions and judgements made by judgement, the view formed by Management Management in the calculation of OCPs regarding each individual material OCP and the were consistent with those prepared aggregate view was considered reasonable.
by Management for forecasting future As part of their review, the Committee also profitability and cash flows.
considered how the assessment of OCPs reflected other key judgements made by Management in respect of asset impairments, deferred tax asset recognition and future liquidity and viability.
Use of Alternative Performance Measures APMs The Companys performance The Committee noted the guidance issued by The Committee agreed with Management measures continue to include the Financial Reporting Council in relation to the and the External Auditor that Underlying some measures which are not use of APMs and, supported by the challenge Trading Profit continued to be a reasonable defined or specified under IFRS.
In of the External Auditor, considered whether the basis for the comparison of the performance particular, following its introduction performance measures used by Management of the business.
in 2015, Management continued provided a meaningful insight into the results of The Committee also continued to support the to use Underlying Trading Profit, the Company for its shareholders.
judgements made by management regarding as a key measure to review current The Committee then also reviewed the treatment the items considered as being exceptional performance against the prior of items considered as being exceptional and and requiring separate disclosure.
year by removing the impact of requiring separate disclosure.
adjustments to OCPs, charges and The Committee concluded that, in relation releases of other items identified With the support of the External Auditor, the to the Half and Full Year 2016 results and the during the 2014 Contract and Committee reviewed the proposed disclosure 2016 Annual Report, clear and meaningful Balance Sheet Review and other of APMs in both the 2016 Half and Full Year descriptions had been provided for the significant non-trading items.
results and the 2016 Annual Report ahead of APMs used.
It was also concluded that the their approval by the Board.
relationship between these measures and the statutory IFRS measures was clearly explained and supported the considered understanding of the financial statements.
Accounting for Foreign Exchange on Non-Trading Items During the year, Management The Committee reviewed in detail with Following their considered review, the recommended changes to the Management and the External Auditor the Committee supported the proposal by Company's accounting policy for proposed changes to the accounting definition Management to change the Companys foreign exchange gains and losses of Operating Profit.
accounting policy to exclude foreign on investing and financing activities, exchange gains and losses on investing and The Committee challenged the basis for the including movements on derivatives financing items from Operating Profit and change in accounting policy and the timing of this that have been taken out to hedge include instead within Net Finance Costs.
change, together with the long-term applicability foreign exchange movements on of the change.
A detailed review of the impact of the Group's external debt and interthe changes on the draft 2016 financial statements company debt.
Such transactions was then undertaken by the Committee with the are no longer included in Operating support of Management and the External Auditor.
Profit, they are instead included in Net Finance Costs.
The proposed changes impacted the Company's Operating Profit by 1.2m and reduced Free Cash Flow by 47m and required a restatement of the results for 2015 to ensure comparability.
83 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued Key areas of focus continued Issue and Significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and Conclusion Goodwill Impairment A key area of judgement made The methodology and the results of the The Committee were satisfied that the by Management in recent years impairment testing were presented to the assumptions underlying the impairments has been in the assessment of the Committee and were subject to scrutiny and made in the year were appropriate.
The Committee placed particular focus Following review of the disclosures in and 2015 significant impairments on changes in discount rates applied and ensuring the financial statements, the Committee of goodwill were recorded but that the underlying cash flows are consistent with concluded that the disclosures were no such charges arose in 2016 in the Board-approved forecasts.
transparent, appropriate and in compliance respect of pre-existing business The Committee also reviewed the disclosures with financial reporting requirements.
However, an impairment included in the financial statements to ensure charge of 17.8m did arise following that they provide an appropriate level of the acquisition of a business in the information to users.
Core to the assessment of the value of goodwill is Managements estimate of future cash flows, which is dependent on circumstances both within and outside of their control, and discount rates that are adjusted to reflect the risks specific to individual assets.
Defined Benefit Pension Schemes The Groups defined benefit The Committee considered both the process Following review, the Committee concluded pension scheme obligations undertaken by Management to finalise the that the process followed was appropriate are an area of Management assumptions for the main schemes, and how these and the resulting conclusions reached and focus, in particular regarding the assumptions benchmark against the market.
calculations performed were appropriately identification of obligations arising Advice was taken from independent actuaries on balanced.
from customer contracts and the the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
calculation of financial impact of During the year, Management have undertaken anysuchliabilities.
a review of the Groups obligations with regards to the Local Government Pension Scheme based on a detailed contract-by-contract assessment and the findings of this review were presented to theCommittee.
84 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Committee governance Activities of the Committee during the year Role of the Committee The Committee has an annual forward agenda developed from its terms of reference with standing The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling items considered at each meeting in addition to any its responsibilities in respect of: overseeing the specific matters arising and topical business or financial Companys financial reporting processes: reviewing, items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
The challenging and approving significant accounting work of the Committee in 2016 principally fell into three judgements proposed by management: the way in main areas: which management ensures and monitors the adequacy of financial and compliance controls: the appointment, Accounting, tax and financial reporting remuneration, independence and performance of the Reviewing the integrity of the half-year and annual Groups External Auditor and the independence and financial statements and the associated significant performance of Internal Audit.
financial reporting judgements and disclosures: Details of the work carried out by the Committee Considering the liquidity risk and the basis for in accordance with its terms of reference and in preparing the half-year and annual financial addressing significant issues are reported to the Board statements on a going concern basis, and reviewing as a matter of course by the Chairman of the Committee the related disclosures in the Annual Report and are described in this report.
The terms of reference andAccounts: for the Committee can be found at www.
com Considering the provisions of the Code regarding about  going concern and viability statements and reviewing Committee membership emerging practice and investor comment as well as The Committee is comprised solely of independent the Group's Viability Statement: Non-Executive Directors.
Mike Clasper and Rachel Reviewing updates on accounting matters and new Lomax were members of the Committee throughout accounting standards, including the new accounting 2016.
Malcolm Wyman was Chairman of the Committee standard on revenue IFRS15 : until his retirement from the Board on 31 October Reviewing the processes to assure the integrity of the 2016 and John Rishton joined the Committee on his Annual Report and Accounts as well as reviewing: appointment to the Board in September 2016 and became Chairman of the Committee on 1 November the management representation letter to the 2016.
During his tenure, Malcolm Wyman, a Chartered External Auditor: Accountant, was determined by the Committee to have the findings and opinions of the External Auditor: 'recent and relevant financial experience' as required the disclosures in relation to internal controls and by the Code and on his appointment, John Rishton, the work of the Committee: a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, was also considered to have recent and that the information presented in the Annual relevant financial experience.
Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and contains the Meetings are normally attended by the Chairman, the information necessary for shareholders to assess Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Companys performance, business model the Head of Internal Audit, the General Counsel and andstrategy: Company Secretary and representatives of the External the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and Auditors.
The Committee retain time at the end of procedures designed to ensure that the Annual each meeting to meet separately without management present and invite the Head of Internal Audit and the Report and Accounts complies with all relevant External Auditor to attend for part of this session.
legal and regulatory requirements: and the process designed to ensure the External Performance review Auditor is aware of all relevant audit information, The Audit Committees performance was assessed as as required by Sections 418 and 419 of the part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
It was Companies Act 2006. concluded that the Committee operated effectively.
85 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued Internal controls Financial control risk is monitored through the Group Principal Risk, Financial Control and Financial IT Systems Assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal Failure processes.
The Committee has reviewed this risk control environment and making recommendations during 2016 and has focused in particular on: to the Board: Assessing the findings and directing the work of The impact of the Companys ongoing finance the Groups financial assurance function: transformation programme, with briefings received Considering reports from Internal Audit: at every Committee meeting on the progress of the programme: In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee, considering the level of alignment between the The progress of the business continuity work being Companys key risks and Internal Audit programme: undertaken by the Corporate Shared Services team, which included impact on the Companys Reviewing the adequacy of resources of the Internal financesystems: Audit function and considering and approving the Work being undertaken with Deloitte LLP to develop scope of the Internal Audit programme: a set of integrated assurance maps to document key Considering the effectiveness of Internal Audit: financial control risks being managed by the Divisions Supporting the appointment of an external and Business Units and the assurance activity co-source partner to Internal Audit: and undertaken to mitigate those risks: Considering reports from the External Auditor on Reviews of the controls and judgements on the their assessment of the control environment.
Groups balance sheet: and External Auditor Managements review of the adequacy of the Group Overseeing the external audit tender process and Finance functions first and second lines of defence.
making a recommendation to the Board on the Following review and challenge, the Committee appointment of a new External Auditor Further detail believes that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, is set out in page 89. the financial control framework and the monitoring of Considering and approving the audit approach and this framework has worked effectively during the year, scope of the audit undertaken by KPMG as External and that in cases of non-compliance, no critical, severe Auditor and the fees for the same: or significant risk has existed to the Company.
The Committee was also encouraged to note that where Agreeing reporting materiality thresholds: weaknesses in the financial control framework were Reviewing reports on audit findings: identified they continued to be addressed.
Considering and approving letters of representation issued to KPMG: and Viability Statement During the course of 2016, the Committee, along with Considering the independence of KPMG and their the Board, has received a number of detailed updates effectiveness, taking into account: on comments made by the FRC and the Investment non-audit work undertaken by the External Auditor: Association regarding the first viability statements feedback from a survey targeted at various published by companies in 2015 and 2016.
The stakeholders: and Committee has reviewed the 2015 Viability Statement and the draft 2016 Viability Statement in light of the Committees own assessment.
these comments, notably regarding the period, risk Financial controls prioritisation and stress testing, and remains of the view The Company aims to have a strong and regularly that the statement made regarding the Companys monitored control environment that minimises financial viability in 2015 continues to be an accurate assessment risk and, as part of the Committees responsibilities, it of the Companys viability as at 31 December 2016. reviews the effectiveness of systems for internal financial The Viability Statement is set out on page 24. control and financial reporting.
Where relevant, the Committee also works with the Group Risk Committee to consider financial risk management.
86 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Independent assurance The Committee has assessed the new External Auditor with input received from management associated The Companys Independent assurance structure is with audits undertaken in Group finance and in the formed of Internal Audit and External Audit.
The feedback received was reviewed by Internal Audit management and reported to the Committee.
In Internal Audit provides assurance to the Board, Audit addition, the Committee reviewed the Financial Committee and management, and in particular: Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review Team report on the 2015 16 inspection of KPMG.
After taking these Provides objective, independent assurance and reports into consideration, together with the External advice to management and the Audit Committee Auditors report on their approach to audit quality on the design and operating effectiveness of the and transparency, the Committee concluded that the governance and internal control processes in place auditor demonstrated appropriate qualifications and to identify and manage business risks: and expertise and remained independent of the Company, and that the audit process was effective.
As part of the Companys integrated approach to risk, assurance and audit, acts as a third line of defence The Committee also reviewed the External Auditors through its coordinating role in monitoring the engagement letter and determined the remuneration effectiveness of both management controls and other of the External Auditor in accordance with the authority assurance activities in addressing business risk.
given to it by shareholders.
The Committee considered the External Auditors remuneration to be appropriate.
Internal Audit gives particular regard to the ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of the Companys financial It is proposed that KPMG be appointed as External controls and reporting processes.
During 2016, and Auditor of the Company at the next AGM in May 2017 following a tender process,  and, if so appointed, that they will hold office until the LLP were appointed as co-source partner to Internal conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company Audit, replacing KPMG.
at which accounts are laid.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is available External Auditor at www.
com investors The Audit Committee manages the relationship with the Companys External Auditor, on behalf of the Board.
The Company will continue the practice of the rotation The Competition & Markets Authoritys 2014 Order on of the audit engagement partner at least every five mandatory use of competitive tender processes and years, and all other partners and senior management audit committee responsibilities requires mandatory will be required to rotate at least every seven years.
tendering of the external audit contract every ten years and it has been the practice of the Audit Committee to The Independent Auditors report to shareholders is set keep the assessment of the need to tender the auditor out on pages 134 to 138. under ongoing review.
In line with this practice, in 2016 the Committee recommended that the Company undertake a tender for external audit services.
As Deloitte LLP would not have been able to be appointed as External Auditor to serve beyond 2020 due to the new legislation, Deloitte agreed that they would not participate in the tender process and full details of the process followed are set out below.
As a result of this tender, KPMG were appointed by the Board as the Groups External Auditor in May 2016, and will be subject to appointment by the Companys shareholders at the AGM in 2017.
87 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued Non-audit fees The Committee believes that non-audit work may only be undertaken by the External Auditor in limited circumstances.
The Committee monitors the non-audit fees.
In 2016 the non-audit fees paid to KPMG were 1.3m, 0.5m of which arose prior to appointment.
The majority of the fees related to either tax advisory, compliance services or other .
Focus is given to ensuring that engagement for nonaudit services does not: i create a conflict of interest: ii place the auditor in a position to audit their own work: iii result in the auditor acting as a manager or employee: or iv put the auditor in the role of advocate for the Company.
The Committee regularly reviews the nature of nonaudit work performed by the Extenal Auditor and the volume of that work.
An analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the External Auditor for the past two years is disclosed on page 169.
Having undertaken a review of the non-audit services provided during the year, the Committee is satisfied that these services were provided efficiently by the External Auditor as a result of their existing knowledge of the business and did not prejudice their independence or objectivity.
88 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements External Audit Tender 2015 was a challenging year for the Company, having recently undertaken a detailed Contract and Balance Sheet Review together with a Rights Issue and a debt refinancing, against the background of a significant write down of over 1.3bn of onerous contract provisions, goodwill and intangibles.
Against the backdrop of this considerable work programme and the appointment of a new executive team, the Board recognised the strong support required, and received, from Deloitte as External Auditor and agreed with the Committee that it was appropriate to keep Deloitte in place until the completion of the audit of the 2015 financial year.
It has been the practice of the Audit Committee to keep the assessment of the need to tender the auditor under ongoing review and in line with new regulations brought into force from the EU and the Competition & Markets Authority regarding external audit tenders and the mandatory change in external auditors.
Therefore, the Committee recommended, and the Board subsequently approved, the decision to undertake a tender process for external audit services, shortly after the completion of the 2015 audit.
The tender process and the Committees involvement in that process is outlined below: Tender participants:  LLP, KPMG LLP and Ernst & Young LLP were all invited to participate in the tender process.
The tender process was limited to the 'Big 4' due to the considered lack of the capacity of smaller audit firms to carry out the audit of such a complex international company.
It was also agreed that Deloitte would not be invited to tender in light of the longevity of their current appointment.
Tender documentation: The Committee reviewed and approved Request For Proposal documentation and a data pack to be issued to all participants which provided detailed information to support the submission of quality and accurate bids by participants.
Carousel day: Each participant then had the opportunity to spend time with various management stakeholders to obtain a more detailed understanding of the Company and existing management processes and challenges to better inform their tender submission.
These meetings included time with Group Finance, Tax and Treasury, Internal Audit, Risk, General Counsel and Company Secretarial, IT, the UK businesses and the Chief Financial Officer.
Selection Committee: The bids submitted following the Carousel Day were subject to review by a Selection Committee.
This Committee was led by the then Chair of the Audit Committee, Malcolm Wyman, and was comprised of the remaining members of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
The firms all then met with the Selection Committee to present their proposals with a question and answer session then led by the members of the Audit Committee present on the SelectionCommittee.
Criteria: The Selection Committee reviewed the tender submissions and scored them independently based upon quality, strength and relevant sector experience of the proposed team, depth of the team and the wider organisation in the industries and geographies relevant to the Company, cultural fit, the proposed approach to the transition plan and wider audit and the potential for audit efficiencies and fee savings.
Outcome: The Selection Committee recommended KPMG as the preferred supplier among the final candidates as they had the appropriate geographic spread and depth and the relevant technical knowledge to best support the Company as External Auditor.
The Board ratified the decision of the Selection Committee and announced the decision to the London Stock Exchange.
