Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Board and Governance Board and Governance structure Board of Directors Corporate Audit Nomination Remuneration Group Risk Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Approvals and Executive Investment Allotment Committee Committee Committee Board of Directors Committee comprised Committee comprised of Executive Board members solely of Board members and senior management Board attendance Corporate Responsibility Board Corporate 1 1 1 1 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination and Risk Oversight Risk Responsibility 2 Number held 9 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 Edward J. Casey, Jr 9 2 2 Mike Clasper 9 6 3 3 2 2 2 2 Angus Cockburn 9 Ralph D. Crosby, Jr 9 2 Sir Roy Gardner 9 6 2 2 2 2 3 Tamara Ingram 1 4 1 3 1 2 Rachel Lomax 8 5 6 2 2 4 John Rishton 4 4 1 1 2 2 Angie Risley 8 6 2 2 Rupert Soames 9 2 5 Malcolm Wyman 4 6 5 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 Numbers in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings which could have been attended.
Notes 1 In February 2016, the Board approved the retirement of the Board Oversight Committee and the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee, and the establishment in their place of the Group Risk Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Further details on the revised remit and membership of these committees is set out on pages 80 and 92.
2 Of the meetings detailed within the table, the following were convened on an ad hoc basis: one Board meeting: two Audit Committee meetings: and one Remuneration Committee meeting.
Given the inherent short notice of these meetings some Directors were, on occasion, unable to attend but were fully briefed on all matters discussed.
3 Tamara Ingram stood down from the Board on 31 July 2016.
4 John Rishton was appointed to the Board and the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 13 September 2016.
John joined the Group Risk Committee on 6 January 2017.
5 Malcolm Wyman stood down from the Board on 31 October 2016.
In addition to the above, Rupert Soames, Angus Cockburn and Ed Casey attended all Executive Committee meetings held during 2016 and formed the quorum of Investment Committee and Approvals and Allotment Committee meetings as required.
78 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Board evaluation It is the Boards policy to invite external evaluation of the Board and its Committees and the roles of individual Directors at least every three years.
The 2016 Board evaluation process was conducted internally, led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary.
The evaluation covered a numbers of areas including: Board structure, Committees and their operation: induction and development: interaction with the business: and risk management and internal control.
All Board members provided their thoughts to the Company Secretary as part of a questionnaire format and a detailed discussion was then held at the September Board meeting to consider the matters raised.
The results of the evaluation concluded that, overall, the Board operates effectively within a collegiate and challenging environment.
In addition, the Board welcomed the revised Committee structures and, in particular, the establishment of the Group Risk Committee.
A review of the progress of the 2015 objectives arising out of the external evaluation process conducted by Coletta Tumelty, together with a summary of findings and proposed initiatives relating to the recent evaluation, is set out below: 2015 Evaluation Recommendations 2016 Actions Taken Consideration be given to the composition and remit In February 2016, the Board approved the retirement of of the Board Oversight Committee and the Corporate the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee and the Responsibility and Risk Committee following the work Board Oversight Committee, and the establishment of the undertaken to embed the policies and procedures put in Group Risk Committee and the Corporate Responsibility place as part of the Corporate Renewal Programme and the Committee.
Boards recognition of the need for an enhanced focus on risk-related matters across the Company.
Ensure adequate Board time is scheduled to consider Following the appointment of Kate Steadman, Group strategy for growth and differentiation.
Strategy Director, in February 2016, the Board met on several occasions to review the direction of the Group strategy update which was undertaken by Executive Management throughout 2016 and formed part of the Capital Markets Day presentation made in December 2016.
That the Board receive a presentation of the talent strategy, In March, 2016 the Nomination Committee and then the a risk assessment and succession plan for all Board roles and Board as a whole reviewed a detailed talent and succession executive roles in the top two tiers below CEO.
strategy for the Board and key Executive Committee roles.
It was agreed that this process be extended to further Executive-level roles and become an annual exercise.
That Board materials be standardised to ensure they Materials for Board meetings were reviewed to seek to consistently and adequately cover matters of operational ensure information was delivered in an accurate, consistent, and performance significance to the Board.
and more standard manner throughout 2016.
Further work is now being undertaken to ensure the same level of consistency at Committee level.
Recommendations for 2017 Management will facilitate further Board and Committee focus on strategy and growth to build upon the strategy work undertaken to date.
Further discussion on succession planning, particularly at an Executive Committee level, will be built into the forward agenda for the Nomination Committee and the Board.
A continued focus will be placed on the timely delivery of relevant, good-quality, Board papers.
Further direct engagement between Board members and the business will be facilitated through contract visits and smaller group engagements.
The Board will be given more visibility of Divisional and Functional management below Board and Executive Committee level.
Further focus and enhancement of the Group Risk Committee and Corporate Responsibility Commitee.
In advance of the scheduled external evaluation of the Board in 2017, a number of options and priorities will be looked at to support continued transparency and best practice.
