Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 79 Nominations Committee Introduction from the Chairman of the Nominations Committee I am pleased to introduce the report of the Nominations Committee which details the role of the Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for assisting the Board by keeping the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity of the Board under proactive review and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board with respect to any necessary changes.
The Committee reviews the leadership needs of the Group and considers plans for orderly succession for appointments to the Board and to senior management to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and to Andrew Duff ensure progressive refreshment of the Board.
The Committee considers the length Chairman of the Nominations Committee of service and performance of the Directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conicts of interest, including the time available to commit to their duties to the Company.
The full Terms of Reference for the Committee, which were updated during the year, Key areas of focus can be found on our website and are also available from the Company Secretary.
In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the key The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors are made available for areas of focus of the Nominations Committee in inspection at the Companys registered ofce, during normal business hours.
2015 16 included: regularly reviewing the structure, size and Succession planning composition including the skills, knowledge, The Nominations Committee annually reviews the Boards effectiveness and experience, time available and diversity of composition in relation to long term succession planning, including the review of the Board: plans in place for the orderly and progressive refreshing of the Board.
In particular, reviewing the leadership needs of the Company, the Committee considers the balance of skills, experience and independence of the both Executive and Non-Executive: Board when considering new appointments and oversees the preparation of a role succession planning considerations for specication that is provided to an independent search rm retained to conduct a Directors and other senior executives: global search.
In addition to the specic skills, knowledge and experience deemed reviewing the results of the annual Board necessary, the specication contains criteria such as: effectiveness exercise: a proven track record of creating shareholder value: annual review of the Company policy on Board level diversity: and unquestioned integrity and a diversity of experience: recommending to the Board the appointment or a commitment to the highest standards of governance: reappointment by shareholders of Directors at the AGM, in accordance with the Code.
having the required time available to devote to the role: a strategic focus, an awareness of market leadership and outstanding monitoring skills: During the year, there were four scheduled meetings a preparedness to question, challenge and openly assess: and of the Nominations Committee.
The attendance an independent point of view.
gures for these meetings are detailed below.
Member of the Nominations Committee Attendance The Chairman does not chair any Nominations Committee meetings relating Andrew Duff Chairman 4 4 to the appointment of his successor.
In these circumstances the Committee is John Coghlan 4 4 chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director elected by the remaining Gordon Fryett 2 4 members.
Directors do not attend any meetings which dealt with the appointment Martin Lamb 4 4 oftheir successor.
Philip Remnant 4 4 Dr. Angela Strank 4 4 In addition to the scheduled meetings of the Committee, there was an ad hoc meeting of the Committee convened during the year to consider Non-Executive Director succession.
Gordon Fryett did not attend two scheduled meetings of the Committee relating to the potential appointment of his successor.
80 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Nominations Committee Appointment and reappointment of the Board In March 2016, the Board announced the appointment of Emma FitzGerald to the Boards of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited together the Board as an Executive Director with effect from 1 April 2016.
Having proved her capability as a member of the Executive Committee as Managing Director of Wholesale Operations, and taking into account her previous experience as CEO of Gas Distribution at National Grid, her appointment as an internal candidate was recommended to the Board by the Nominations Committee.
Emmas appointment broadens the collective experience of the Board, adds a fresh perspective to boardroom discussions and brings a huge amount of value in ensuring the delivery of the commitments we have made in our business plan.
Following year end, the Board announced that Martin Lamb and Gordon Fryett, would retire from the Board after the AGM.
The Committee initiated a planned succession process to search for a new Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, to succeed Martin, and a new Non-Executive Director, to succeed Gordon.
Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann and The Zygos Partnership were appointed as advisers and provided with a role specication and a detailed brief of the desired candidate proles.
The Committee considered a list of potential candidates and those shortlisted were interviewed by members of the Board.
The proposed, final candidates attended individual preappointment meetings with Ofwat ahead of a formal recommendation of appointment being made to the Board.
Martin Lamb and Gordon Fryett took no part in any meetings relating to their succession.
Following the process, the Board agreed with the Committees recommendation that Kevin Beeston join the Board as Non-Executive Director, with effect from 1 June 2016, and that Dominique Reiniche would join the Board as a Non-Executive Director, with effect from 20 July 2016.
Kevin will succeed Martin as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director following the conclusion of the AGM and will become a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Dominique will succeed Gordon as a Non-Executive Director and become a member of the Corporate Responsibility and Nominations Committees.
Dr. Angela Strank will succeed Gordon as Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee following the conclusion of the AGM.
The Committee considers that the Board consists of individuals with the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge to provide strong and effective leadership of the Company.
The majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman, areIndependent Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, all members of the Board, with the exception of Martin Lamb and Gordon Fryett, will seek appointment or reappointment at the AGM on 20 July 2016.
In February 2016, the Board conducted an internally facilitated review of its effectiveness, including a review of the Board, its Committees and individual members in the context of the Companys Charter of Expectations, as detailed on page 75.
The findings of the evaluation concluded that each Director made a constructive and valuable contribution to the Board and the running of the Company.
As part of the evaluation, full consideration was given to the number of external positions held by the Non-Executive Directors.
The full list of external appointments held by our Non-Executive Directors can be found in the Board of Directors biographies on pages 66 to 67.
As a result of this review, theCommittee did not identify any instances of overboarding.
Full details of the internal evaluation can found on page 75.
The Committee annually considers the time commitment required of its Directors to ensure the successful running of the Company.
The Committee considered the reappointment of Directors prior to their recommended approval to shareholders at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors who have been on the Board for more than six years were subject to particularly rigorous review.
The Committee supports and recommends each Directors reappointment to the Board.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 81 Diversity Gender diversity as at 31 March 2016 At Severn Trent, we are committed to supporting diversity and creating an inclusive Board STEC culture.
A diverse organisation, underpinned by meritocracy, will value and benefit from differences in skills, regional and industry experience, background, 2 race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, belief and age, as well as culture and 4 personality.
The Nominations Committee reviews the Boards effectiveness and composition each year and, in particular, considers the balance of skills, experience 6 and independence of the Board.
It considers the benets of all aspects of diversity, 6 but without compromise as to the calibre of Directors, when identifying candidates for appointment.
The selection of candidates to join the Board will continue to be made based on merit and the individuals ability to contribute to the effectiveness Senior manager Graduates of the Board, which in turn will be dependent on the pool of candidates available.
All Board appointments have been and will continue to be based on merit and must 18 be in the interests of all stakeholders.
22 25 The Company continues to engage with executive search rms to ensure the widest possible pool of candidates for Board positions.
Executive search rms are briefed 49 of our diversity requirements to ensure an anti-discriminatory long list.
In 2015 one search rm did not meet this criteria and was replaced.
As and when Board Apprentices Group appointment opportunities arise, we make full use of the procedures recommended by the Davies Report and by the Code to support this aspiration.
25 2,039 A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who were Directors of the Company, senior managers and other employees as at 31 March 2016 is set out opposite.
5,012 76 As at 31 March 2016, we had two female members on the Board of eight representing 25% and six female members out of ten on the Executive Committee Male Female representing 60%.
As at the date of this report, following the appointment of Emma FitzGerald to the Board on 1 April 2016 we had three female members on our Board of nine representing 33% and six female members out of ten on the Executive Committee representing 60%.
Severn Trent Board diversity gures Tenure years Talent management 8 Severn Trent recognises the importance of developing people, and talent 7 management was a key topic of discussion by the Nominations Committee during the year.
In line with our strategy of creating an awesome place to work, we seek to 6 create a culture of empowerment and accountability with a focus on skills, talent 5 and career development.
4 3 During the year, the Committee reviewed the bench strength of leadership capability in Severn Trent and the initiatives in place to develop a robust pipeline of talent.
2 In April 2012, Severn Trent implemented a five year talent plan which continued to 1 gain momentum during this financial year.
As at the date of this report, we have 0 a total of 47 graduates and 101 apprentices in training.
A significant programme of STEM Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths activities was undertaken through Engineering UK to further support our future technical talent pipeline and encourage young people to maintain an interest in science and technology courses Male Female Figures as at the date of this report.
Our Awesome Leaders Development Programme was introduced in 2015 for our team leaders and team managers as we understand the importance of nurturing and developing our internal talent, particularly in relation to succession planning for senior positions within the Company.
Membership and Director attendance during the year ended 31 March 2016 The members of the Committee in 2015 16 were the Non-Executive Directors of the Board.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
Other individuals such as the Chief Executive, members of senior management, Director of Human Resources and external advisers may be invited toattend meetings as and when appropriate.
Liv Gareld James Bowling John Coghlan Andrew Duff Gordon Fryett Martin Lamb Philip Remnant Dr. Angela Strank Emma FitzGerald
