Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 69 Governance report Introduction Group Authorisation Arrangements The Group Authorisation Arrangements GAA are Our Board is responsible to our stakeholders for ensuring the sound running of the framework through which the Severn Trent Plc the Company in accordance with best practice corporate governance.
The Code Board authorises the right people, at the right level, to take important decisions to effectively control and sets out five key principles: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Relations manage legal, financial and administrative decisions with Shareholders and Remuneration.
This report is structured against each of throughout the Group.
These arrangements are these principles which, together with the Nominations Committee report, Audit reviewed annually, with the last review undertaken Committee report and Remuneration Committee report, set out on pages 79 to 81, in March 2016.
82 to 85 and 89 to 101 respectively, describe how we have complied with the relevant The ow of authority is from the Severn Trent provisions of the Code throughout the year.
Plc Board to the Chief Executive and the Severn Trent Executive Committee.
In respect of certain decisions, the delegated authority is subject to an obligation to work with specialist business service 1 Code principle: Leadership areas such as Tax, Treasury, Group Finance and Company Secretariat, which provides additional expertise and a Group-wide perspective.
Charter of Expectations In November 2014, the Severn Trent Charter of Expectations was adopted to promote and implement best practice corporate governance.
The Charter sets out the role proles and expectations of all key positions on the Groups Boards together referred to as the Board, and Board Committees, and also reects the Boards responsibility for setting the tone for the Groups culture, values and behaviour.
2.1 of the Code, there is a clear division of Governance of subsidiaries responsibilities between the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
These are The membership of the Board of the listed clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board in the Charter Company, Severn Trent Plc, is the same as that of its of Expectations.
regulated subsidiary, Severn Trent Water Limited.
This structure was implemented in 2007 to ensure The Charter of Expectations is also used to assist in the ongoing annual assessment that the highest standards of corporate governance of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, and that of individual were applied at the regulated subsidiary level and to promulgate greater visibility and supervision of Directors, and is available on our website www.
Severn Trent Water Limited by the Severn Trent Plc Board.
Severn Trent Water Limited also complies Governance framework with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The Board is responsible to all stakeholders, including its shareholders, for to ensure the highest standards of governance.
the approval and delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
It ensures that the The two companies operate as distinct legal entities.
necessary financial, technical and human resources are in place for the Company The Boards comply with the Severn Trent Plc Board tomeet its objectives.
The Board leads the Group within a framework of prudent governance framework and the respective Matters andeffective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
They are assisted through the management of separate agendas, meetings Responsibility for the development and implementation of the Groups strategy and and minutes by Company Secretariat and advised overall commercial objectives is delegated to the Chief Executive who is supported in their meetings by the Company Secretary, where appropriate.
by the Severn Trent Executive Committee STEC.
Subsidiary Company Boards are managed through The Groups principal decision-making body is the Board.
In line with the Code, designated governance processes.
In particular, the the Board delegates certain roles and responsibilities to its various Committees.
relationships between Severn Trent Water Limited and our other businesses such as Severn Trent The Committees assist the Board by fullling their roles and responsibilities, Business Services are monitored and controlled focusing on their specic activities, reporting to the Board on decisions and actions to ensure that regulatory requirements and taken, and making any necessary recommendations in line with their Terms of obligations under competition law are complied with in respect of all transactions between them, or with Reference.
The Terms of Reference of each Committee comply with the provisions third parties.
of the Code and have been updated to take account of best practice as part of their annual review in March 2016.
The sub-committee structure is detailed in the governance framework overleaf and key responsibilities are set out on page 71.
70 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Governance framework CHAIRMAN Andrew Duff BOARD 6 3 Leads our unied Board, ensuring that the The Boards role is to: understand and meet its obligations to the Companys stakeholders: principles and processes of the Board are lead the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be maintained in line with our Code of Conduct assessed and managed: approve the Groups strategic objectives and ensure that sufficient andCharter of Expectations.
resources are available to enable it to meet those objectives: and monitor and review the operating and financial performance of the Group.
It has responsibility and accountability forthe long term success of the Group.
BOARD COMMITTEES CEO Liv Gareld AUDIT COMMITTEE 3 Delegated responsibility for the development Chair John Coghlan and implementation of the Groups strategy and overallcommercial objectives.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities for Responsible for the day-to-day management of the the integrity of the Companys financial statements, the assessment of the business and the communication of Board agreed effectiveness of the systems of Internal Controls, Risk Management and the objectives to employees.
It also reviews the adequacy of the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
More information can be found on page 82.
SEVERN TRENT EXECUTIVE 4 6 COMMITTEE STEC TREASURY COMMITTEE 4 Chair Liv Gareld Chair John Coghlan STEC operates under the directionand authority of The Treasury Committee provides oversight of treasury activities in theCEOoverseeing the development and execution of implementing the policies, funding and treasury risk management plan strategy.
It also has accountability for achieving financial approved by the Board.
These include inter alia: the measurement and and operational performance.
management of risks in respect of interest rates: funding: counterparty credit: liquidity and treasury operations: funding proposals: relationship withrating agencies: debt investor relations: bank relationship management:and treasury internal controls.
EXECUTIVE SUB-COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE 3 1 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 3 1 Chair James Bowling Chair Philip Remnant The Disclosure Committee oversees the Companys On behalf of the Board, the Remuneration Committee determines the compliance with its disclosure obligations and Companys policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors, other considersthe materiality, accuracy, reliability and members of the Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Board.
More information can be found on page 89.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE 2 2 Chair Gordon Fryett The Corporate Responsibility Committee provides guidance and directiontothe Companys corporate responsibility and sustainability programme based on our values.
It also reviews the Groups non-financial risks and opportunities.
More information can be found on page 86.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 5 1 Chair Andrew Duff The Nominations Committee assists the Board by keeping the structure, size, composition and succession needs of the Board under review.
It also assists the Board on issues of Directors conicts of interestand independence.
More information can be found on page 79.
More information on Board and Committee membership, can be found on page 66.
Indicates membership of each Male Female Committee, including gender.
Each Board Committee has written Terms of Reference reviewedannually and approved by the Board, which are available on the Companys website.
Membership of the Treasury Committee includes Head of Group Treasury Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 71 Key responsibilities Chairman Andrew Duff Leads our unied Board and is responsible for its effectiveness.
Responsible for setting agendas for Board meetings and for the timely dissemination of information to the Board, in consultation with CEO, CFO and the Company Secretary.
Responsible for scrutinising the performance of the Executive Committee.
Facilitates contribution from our Directors.
Ensures effective communication with our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Chief Executive CEO Responsible for the overall commercial objectives of the Group.
Liv Gareld Develops and implements the Groups strategy, as approved by the Board.
Promotes and conducts the affairs of the Group with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
Chief Financial officer CFO Manages the Groups financial affairs.
JamesBowling Supports the CEO in the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Senior Independent In addition to his responsibilities as a NED, Martin Lamb: Non-Executive Director Supports the Chairman in delivery of his objectives.
SID MartinLamb Is available to all shareholders should they have a concern, in the event the normal channels of Chairman, CEO and CFO have failed to resolve.
Leads the appraisal of the Chairmans performance with the Non-Executive Directors.
Together with the Nominations Committee, is responsible for ensuring that an orderly succession planning process is in place for the Board.
Independent Non-Executive Constructively challenge our Executive Directors in all areas.
Directors NEDs Monitor the delivery of strategy by the Executive Committee within the risk and control framework set John Coghlan, Gordon by the Board.
Fryett, Dr. Angela Strank, Philip Remnant Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of financial controls and risk management systems.
Responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors.
Scrutinise the performance of the Executive Committee.
Executive Director Responsible for the Groups wholesale business.
EmmaFitzGerald Supports the CEO in the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Group General Counsel Acts as Secretary to our Board and its Committees, ensuring sound information ows to the Board and Company Secretary and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
BronaghKennedy Responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters.
Facilitates a comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors, tailored to individual requirements.
Responsible for compliance with Board procedures.
Co-ordinates the performance evaluation of the Board.
Provides advice and services to the Board.
2.1 of the Code, there is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Additional information on the role of the Board, its Committees and further information in relation to each of the roles outlined above, can be found on the corporate governance section of our website.
Biographical details of each member of the Board can be found on pages 66 and 67.
72 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Board meetings Formal schedule of Matters Reserved Forward plan tothePlc Board Each year the Chairman, and respective Committee Chairmen, work with the The processes in place regarding the Boards tasks and activities and the matters specically reserved Company Secretary to develop and agree a forward agenda for Board and for the Boards decision-making, the role of and the Committee meetings for the year ahead.
The purpose of the forward agenda is to authority delegated to the CEO, the accountability ensure that proper oversight of key areas of responsibility are scheduled regularly of the CEO for that authority, and guidance on managing the relationship between the Board and and that sufficient time is allocated during the year for the Board to fully consider the CEO are documented.
These processes are strategic matters.
Papers, including minutes of Board and Committee meetings held since the The Board has reserved the following matters for its previous meeting, are circulated approximately a week in advance of each meeting.
own consideration: Strategy and Management: The table overleaf sets out the main matters considered by the Board in 2015 16 at its scheduled Board meetings.
The Boards agenda is normally structured, in Structure and Capital: accordance with the identied requirements of the forward agenda plan, as follows: Financial Reporting and Controls: Performance review including health and safety, operational, customer and Internal Controls: financial matters : Contracts and Policies: Bi-annual Enterprise Risk Management review: Board Membership and other appointments, Strategic items: including the appointment of the Chief Executive, Directors and the Company Secretary: Matters for approval: Remuneration: Matters to note: Delegation of Authority including the GAA which Governance and regulatory matters: and sets out the Groups delegated approval limits: and Committee reports.
The approval or adoption of documents, The Board monitors the performance and customer service standards of the including the Annual Report and Accounts, regulated water and waste water business at every meeting and receives monthly required to be made by the Board, or by the updates on performance againstall ODIs, including those listed on page 26 and 27 of Companys GAA, constitutional documents, statute or external regulation.
The Board also regularly discusses reports on capital efficiency and asset management.
More information on the GAA can be found on page 69.
The Board annually reviews and approves all financial results announcements, theAnnual Report and Accounts, dividend payments and all changes to the composition of the Board and its Committees.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 73 Board activities Topic Activities Discussion Link to our values page 12 Customers Discussion and review of performance and engagement reports at each meeting.
We put our customersrst Approach in respect of social tariffs and support for vulnerable customers.
Shareholders Review and discussion of feedback following stakeholder meetings with CEO and CFO, investor We act with integrity roadshows, conferences and Capital Markets Day.
Strategy Review and discussion of shareholder feedback in advance of the Annual General Meeting.
We are passionate aboutwhat wedo Environment, Discussion and review of health and safety performance at every meeting.
We protect our Health & Safety environment Discussion and review of environmental matters.
Governance Review of Severn Trents governance framework.
We act with integrity &Risk Review of the GAA.
Board and Committee effectiveness review including the Board, its Committees, individualDirectors and conicts of interest.
Annual review of Terms of Reference for all Board Committees.
More information on the tender can be found on page 84. Review of the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Controls and Risk Management processes.
Bi-annual Enterprise Risk Management review.
Regular governance report provided by the Company Secretary, including annual review ofcompliance with the Code.
Bi-annual review of the Groups disclosure requirements.
Financial Review of annual performance, including approval of full year, half year results We act with integrity andtradingupdates.
Group Budget 2015 16, medium term financial plan and regulated business ODIs.
Review of the Groups financial performance against budget and forecast.
Regulation Regulatory business discussions at every meeting.
We act with integrity Engagement with regulators, including relationship mapping.
We put our Discussion and review of water quality updates.
customersrst Employees Discussion and review of employee engagement across the Group from the results of We are inspired & Leadership theQUESTsurvey.
tocreate an awesomecompany Discussion and review of talent development and succession planning across the Group.
Review the composition and succession of the Board and its Committees.
Ethics Discussion and review of the Groups ethics culture.
We act with integrity 74 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Attendance at Board and Committee meetings The attendance of members at Board meetings during the year was as follows: Seven scheduled Board meetings were planned and held during the year.
The table opposite shows attendance levels at the Board meetings held during the year.
Director Meetings attended Andrew Duff 7 7 Board Committee meetings 2015 16 James Bowling 7 7 In addition to the standing Committees of the Board, there were ad hoc Committee John Coghlan 7 7 meetings of the Board convened throughout the year to consider such matters as Gordon Fryett 6 7 the deregulation of the non-household retail market, our joint venture with United Liv Gareld 7 7 Utilities, Severn Trent Plcs preliminary and interim results, quarterly management Martin Lamb 6 7 statements and regulatory disclosures.
Philip Remnant 7 7 Independent advice Dr. Angela Strank 7 7 Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense Where a Director was unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, in each case the Director on any matter relating to their responsibilities.
There is an agreed procedure concerned was provided with all relevant papers and enabling them to do so, which is managed by the Company Secretary.
No such provided comments on the matters to be considered independent advice was sought during the financial year.
No concerns were raised in relation to the commitment of any Director as part of this years 2 Code principle: Effectiveness Board effectiveness review.
Emma FitzGerald was appointed to the Board Our Boards composition on1April 2016.
As at the date of this report, the Board consisted of nine Directors.
A table listing the composition of the Board for the year ended 31 March 2016 is set out opposite.
Independence of NEDs The independence of Non-Executive Directors is formally reviewed by the Nominations Committee on an annual basis, which makes a recommendation to the Board in relation to the reappointment of Directors at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
In the event of a situational conict arising, the Board has a documented authorisation process in place, ensuring that either the Director does not attend the meeting or participate in discussion in respect of any matter where a situational conict exists.
An annual review of conicts is carried out alongside a review of our Gifts and Hospitality Register, and is incorporated into the year end process of verifying Directors interests.
Half yearly reports are also made available to the Board detailing all Directors conicts and Directors are reminded of their obligations to disclose any potential conicts.
During its last review in November 2015, the Board considered all external commitments and skillsets required, including those set out in the Code.
No Director had a material interest in any contract of signicance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, at any time during the year.
The Board considers that there are no business or other circumstances that are likely to affect the independence of any Non-Executive Director.
In accordance with the Code, all the Directors, with the exception of Martin Lamb and Gordon Fryett, will retire at this years AGM and submit themselves for appointment or reappointment by the shareholders.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors, seeking appointment or reappointment are considered to be independent in character and judgment.
Appointments to our Board and its Committees The Board, through the Nominations Committee, has in place formal, rigorous and transparent procedures for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
In March 2016, the Board announced the appointment of Emma FitzGerald, Managing Director of Wholesale Operations and Executive Committee member, to the Board, with effect from 1 April 2016.
Following year end, the Board also announced the appointments of Kevin Beeston to the Board, with effect from 1 June 2016, and Dominique Reiniche to the Board as a Non-Executive Director, with effect from 20 July 2016.
Further information in relation to these appointments and the work ofthe Nominations Committee can be found on pages 79 to 81.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 75 In advance of a formal recommendation for a Non-Executive Director appointment Board Strategy Day to the Board, the proposed, final candidate attended an individual preappointment In addition to formal meetings, in November 2015 meeting with Ofwat.
the Board attended a full day strategy session along with the Executive Committee to consider areas of Terms and conditions of appointment future value creation across the Group, including: The terms and conditions of appointment of the Directors are available for inspection Opportunities for wider upstream competition by any person at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours.
enabled through Water 2020 and changes arising from the Water Act 2014.
They will also be made available before and during the AGM.
Review of growth strategies across our portfolio In accordance with the Code, any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive Director of businesses.
is subject to rigorous review and takes into account the need for progressive Long term scenarios and options for the asset refreshing of the Board.
strategy of our regulated business.
Evaluation of the Board The future of ood defences and how this could impact Severn Trent.
The effectiveness of the Board is reviewed at least annually and an independent externally facilitated review is conducted every three years.
A full externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise was last conducted in 2015 and reported on inour 2014 15 Annual Report and Accounts.
A summary of the actions taken following the 2015 review can be found below.
Area for further focus identied in 2015 external review Actions taken Allocation of agenda time to Company Secretariat conducted a review agreedkey strategic priorities of strategy topics to be considered at Board also including length and format meetings throughout the year.
format of Boardpapers were also reviewed, with best practice guidance implemented by Directors andreport writers.
Mentoring, talent management Discussion and review of talent and andsuccession planning below successionacross the Group at July Executive Committee level.
Enhance KPIs to reect risks Instead of reporting against KPIs as in AMP5, andoperational performance we now report performance against ODIs at againstnew AMP6 regulatory each meeting of STEC and the Board.
report on the moving annual performance and provide updated targets for the year ateachmeeting.
In February 2016, the Board conducted an internally facilitated review of its effectiveness, including a review of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors in the context of the Companys Charter of Expectations.
Emma FitzGerald, Kevin Beeston and Dominique Reiniche had not been appointed to the Board at this time.
This evaluation process was led by the Chairman and the Company Secretary through a series of one-to-one meetings and discussions.
Separate meetings were held to consider the effectiveness of the Chairman, led by our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Martin Lamb.
The findings of the evaluation were discussed and reviewed by the Nominations Committee and subsequently the Board in March 2016.
The evaluation concluded that excellent progress had been made in respect of areas for further focus identied in the 2015 externally facilitated review.
It was agreed that talent and succession planning would remain a regular Board agenda topic and that the Board strategy day meeting would be scheduled outside the normal Board meeting calendar.
The evaluation also concluded that the Board and its Committees were effective and that each Director made a constructive and valuable contribution to theBoard and the running of the Company.
76 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Training and development Board Training Sessions 2015 16 Induction Board Date Topic attendance On appointment to the Board, a Directors induction needs are evaluated and they April 2015 Knowledge 88% are provided with a comprehensive and personalised induction pack which includes share with senior information on our business model, key operations and processes, how we are management team regulated, how we are shaping future regulation, strategic plans, financial reports, May 2015 Drought response 100% business plans, information on our governance framework, Directors roles and July 2015 Catchment 100% responsibilities and legal and regulatory duties.
management October 2015 Strategic grid 100% Meetings are arranged with members of the Executive Committee and with external management advisers who provide support to the relevant Board Committees on which the November 2015 New bill launch 100% Directors may serve.
Visits to operational and ofce sites across the Group and January 2016 Water discolouration 100% management presentations are also arranged for Directors appointed to the Board contribution of and subsequently throughout the year.
manganese March 2016 Developer Services 88% These arrangements have been followed for the induction of Emma FitzGerald.
Martin Lamb was unable to attend for this topic.
Ofwat issued a letter to the Company on 19 April 2016 formalising a preappointment Gordon Fryett was unable to attend for this topic.
meeting process as part of any Non-Executive Director appointment which will also be included in induction programmes going forward.
This process was included in the induction of Kevin Beeston and Dominique Reiniche.
Directors resources Training and Continuing Professional Development An online resource library and Continuing Professional Development CPD repository As well as Board agenda items, training sessions in relation to specific topics of interest is available for use by the Directors, which is have been presented to Directors during the year as indicated in the table opposite.
The library includes a Corporate Governance Manual, a Results The aim of the training sessions is to continually refresh and expand the Boards Centre and Investor Relations section, Strategy Day knowledge and skills to enable them to effectively full their roles on the Board and materials and details of Board training sessions.
its Committees and contribute to discussions on technical and regulatory matters.
It also includes a further reading section which contains updates and guidance on changes to The sessions also serve as an opportunity for the Board to discuss strategy and legislation and corporate governance best practice.
risks with management below Executive Committee level and gain further insight The Directors also have access to professional into our businesses and management capability.
development provided by external bodies and our advisers.
CPD requirements were considered, through individual performance review meetings between the Chairman and each Director, as part of 3 Code principle: Accountability the Board effectiveness review in 2015 16.
Charter of Expectations Our Charter of Expectations sets out the matters for which the Board and key roles are accountable.
Doing The Right Thing The Severn Trent Way DTRT Every day our employees have to make choices about what they do and how they do it.
Most of the time it is clear what the right thing to do is, whether it is about doing what is safe, doing the right thing for our customers, doing what is right ethically and what is right legally.
It details the values we work by and explains who we are, what we stand for and how we work.
It also tells our customers, investors and business partners that they can trust and rely on us.
These principles apply to everyone in the Group, no matter where in the world they are based or what they do.
It provides a consistent framework for responsible business practices and sets the standards we need to follow in our day-to-day activities.
During the year we have refreshed DTRT, and our Group policies, in preparation for roll-out across the Group in 2016 17 to make sure that everyone in the business understands our expectations in relation to our values and ethical standards.
All employees will be given a copy and training sessions will be provided.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 77 4 Code principle: Remuneration The Board has established a Remuneration Committee.
The composition and activities of the Remuneration Committee are described on pages 89 to 101.
Our Remuneration Policy has been designed to take into account the Companys strategic objectives both over the short and long term and the external market.
5 Code principle: Relations with Shareholders Retail shareholder engagement strategy The Board has an active shareholder engagement strategy, the main elements of which are set out below.
The Annual Report and Accounts is the principal means of communicating with shareholders.
The Group has adopted e-communications as an alternative method of sending company information.
Following a consultation with shareholders in March 2015, a significant majority of shareholders, 88%, can now view and download the Annual Report online.
12%, continue to receive a hard copy.
The next consultation will take place in 2018.
com contains an archive of Annual Reports together with other information relevant to investors.
This includes comprehensive share price information, financial results, company news and financial calendars.
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details of the DRIP are available on our website and the website of Equiniti, our registrar.
Institutional shareholders and analysts The Board recognises the importance of representing and promoting the interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company.
Various mechanisms have been put in place to ensure it remains in touch with key activities and developments, including: monthly update reports on the key shareholder engagement activities carried out by the Executive Committee and the Investor Relations team: Primary investor events a monthly report of our shareholder register, outlining the significant buyers and 2015 16 sellers of Severn Trent Plc shares: and June 15 London Roadshow regular summaries of sector research notes, allowing the Board to understand June 15 Bank of America Merrill Lynch the key opinions being communicated to investors by analysts.
UtilitiesConference June 15 Private Client Roadshow Presentations are made to shareholders and analysts following the release of London the interim and year end results.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer June 15 Edinburgh Roadshow regularly meet shareholders during the year.
June 15 European Roadshow The Chairman also meets with shareholders without the Executive Directors on a June 15 RBC Utilities & Infrastructure periodic basis and is available to meet with them at any other time upon request.
ReverseRoadshow September 15 Morgan Stanley Power In line with the Code, we recognise that the Board has overall responsibility for &UtilitySummit ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
On a more September 15 North American Roadshow informal basis, the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer September 15 Private Client Roadshow regularly report to the Board the views of larger shareholders about the Company.
London September 15 Bernsteins 12th Annual Strategic Decisions Conference November London Roadshow December 15 December 15 Edinburgh Roadshow January 16 Citi European Utilities Conference February 16 Private Client Roadshow London March 16 North American Roadshow March 16 European Roadshow 78 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Our conversations with investors during 2015 16 have focused on how the Company VIEW ONLINE is delivering under the new AMP6 regulatory environment, what changes have been made to achieve this performance and how the Company expects to outperform Our online Annual Report and Accounts key aspects of the regulatory Final Determination.
Discussion has focused on the Easier, greener and only a click away.
areas we believe we have the opportunity to outperform the Return on Regulatory Equity RoRE allowed in our AMP6 Final Determination, notably operational Were always looking to make life easier.
improvements measured through ODIs, efficiency savings and management of Our online Annual Report is designed to help you read the information that matters to you, Totex, delivery of our renewables programme, the management of our nancing as wherever you may be, whether on the move well as the deregulation of the non-household retail market in 2017.
During the year, or at your desktop.
It reduces our paper Ofwat published Water 2020 which set out some of its thinking on the direction of use too, which is kinder to the environment.
our industry for the next regulatory period, AMP7.
As a result, there was discussion We hope you like it.
with investors about the risks and opportunities of Water 2020 discussion topics, ar2016.
com including sludge and water trading, the possible move to the Consumer Price Index CPI rather than Retail Price Index RPI as the measure of ination, and the potential opening of the household retail market.
Looking ahead to 2016 17 We expect to continue our extensive programme of investor events and discussions will continue to focus on how we deliver against our strategic framework and the key elements of outperformance, as well as our ability to deliver returns relative to the RoRE allowed by our Final Determination for AMP6.
We also expect to have further discussions with Ofwat on the future direction of our industry, as part of its Water 2020 initiatives.
We will continue with our extensive programme of roadshows in theUK, Europe and North America.
AGM 2016 AGM The AGM provides a useful opportunity for all shareholders to provide feedback on The AGM of the Company will be held at the performance, management and the way we work in a very direct fashion, through RicohArena, Phoenix Way, Coventry, CV6 6GE at11am on Wednesday 20 July 2016. the questions they ask.
Shareholders can also meet informally with Directors and senior management before and after the meeting.
Presentations will be made on the Groups activities and performance, including exhibitions around The Board encourages shareholders to attend our AGM and to exercise their right our key activities, during the year prior to the to vote.
The Notice of Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least formal business of the meeting.
The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Treasury and 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate Resolutions are proposed on each Corporate Responsibility Committees, together substantially separate issue.
All proxy votes received in respect of each Resolution withall other Directors, attend the AGM.
at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
The poll results from the 2016 AGM will be made available on our website after the meeting.
