66 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors 1.
Committee membership key Audit Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Executive Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Treasury Committee 1.
Dr. Angela Strank BSc PhD 63 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board on 29 February 2008 Appointed to the Board on 24 January 2014 Martin brings extensive experience to the Board of managing and developing Angela brings a wealth of strategic, technical and commercial experience large engineering businesses in all parts of the world.
His strong engineering to the Board.
Angela is Head of Downstream Technology and Group Chief expertise, commercial acumen, experience of managing complex projects, Scientist at BP plc.
She is a member of the Downstream Executive Leadership and familiarity with current market pressures leave him well placed to add Team.
Angela is responsible for enabling delivery of the Downstream value to the Severn Trent business.
In May 2014, Martin left the Board of IMI strategic agenda through the development of differentiated technology plc having served as Chief Executive for 13 years and after 33 years with advantage across the rening, fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals the Company.
On 1 March 2014, Martin was appointed Chairman of Evoqua businesses.
Since joining BP in 1982, she has held many senior leadership Water Technologies and on 14 January 2015, he was appointed Non-Executive roles around the world in business development, commercial and technology, Director of Mercia Technologies plc.
On 24 April 2015, Martin was appointed including in 2012, Vice President and Head of the Chief Executives Ofce.
Previously Martin was a Non-Executive Director of In 2010, Angela was the winner of the UK First Womans Award in Science Spectris Plc.
and Technology in recognition of pioneering UK women in business and industry.
Her track record and experience in strategy, operations, technology External appointments and transformational change are a complementary addition to the Boards Chairman of Evoqua Water Technologies LLC skill set.
Chairman of Rotork Plc Non-Executive Director of Mercia Technologies plc External appointments Member of the Advisory Board of AEA Investors Management UK Limited Board Governor, University of Manchester 2.
Olivia Gareld BA Hons 40 Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Appointed to the Board on 23 May 2014 Appointed to the Board on 11 April 2014 Chairman of the Audit and Treasury Committees Olivia Liv brings to the Board a wealth of experience managing customer John is a chartered accountant and has a valuable background in financial service delivery and complex infrastructure and organisations in a regulated and general management across a variety of sectors.
Before joining Severn Trent, Liv was Chief Executive Officer of also a Non-Executive Director of Associated British Ports Companies, and Openreach, part of the BT Group, where she spearheaded and oversaw the a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of commercial roll-out of fibre broadband to two thirds of the country.
She joined Lavendon Group plc.
Previously, John was a Director of Exel Plc for 11 years BT in 2002 and held the pivotal roles of Group Director of Strategy and to 2006, where he was Deputy Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Regulation, Managing Director Commercial and Brands, Global Services and Since 2006, John has been a Non-Executive Director of various publiclyUK Customer Services Director.
From 1998 to 2002, Liv worked for Accenture as quoted and private equity-owned companies.
a consultant in the Communications and High Tech Market Unit, designing and implementing business change solutions across a number of industry sectors.
External appointments Non-Executive Director of Associated British Ports Companies External appointments Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Director of Water Plus Limited joint venture with United Utilities ofLavendon Group plc Chairman of Freight Transport Association Ireland Limited 6.
Gordon Fryett 62 Independent Non-Executive Director 3.
James Bowling BA Hons Econ, ACA 47 Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2009 Chief Financial officer Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2015 Gordon has extensive experience working in and with international James is a chartered accountant, having started his career with Touche businesses, managing significant capital expenditure.
His in-depth retail Ross and brings significant financial management, M&A and business expertise at both executive and operational level in a customer-facing, transformation expertise to the Board.
Prior to joining Severn Trent, James highly competitive environment enables him to bring substantial experience was interim Chief Financial officer of Shire plc, where he had been since 2005, and expertise to the Board and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
first as Head of Group Reporting and from 2008 as Group Financial Controller.
Gordon held the position of Group Property Director at Tesco plc until his Prior to joining Shire, James spent nine years at Ford Motor Company in retirement in November 2013.
He previously held a number of senior roles various finance roles of increasing responsibility.
within the Tesco Group, including Operations Director, International Support Director and CEO Republic of Ireland.
External appointments Alumnus of INSEAD Non-Executive Director of W&J Linney Limited Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 67 7.
Emma FitzGerald MA, DPhil Oxon, MBA 49 Non-Executive Chairman Managing Director, Wholesale Operations Appointed to the Board on 10 May 2010 and Chairman on 20 July 2010 Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2016 Chairman of the Nominations Committee Emma joined Severn Trent in July 2015 as Managing Director, Wholesale Andrews extensive experience of international and regulated business, Operations.
Emma was previously CEO of Gas Distribution at National Grid.
strategic management and customer service in high prole, dynamic Until 1 December 2015, she was a Non-Executive Director of Alent Plc.
Prior to environments has equipped him well for the role of Chairman of the Group.
joining National Grid, she pursued a 20 year career with Royal Dutch Shell Andrew spent 16 years at BP in marketing, strategy and oil trading.
He joined where she held a variety of technical, strategic and general management National Power in 1998 and the Board of Innogy plc upon its demerger positions based in Asia and Europe, including Vice President Global Retail from National Power in 2000.
He played a leading role in its restructuring Network and Managing Director of Shell China Hong Kong Lubricants based and transformation through the opening of competition in energy markets in Beijing.
Emmas experience and expertise brings a huge amount of value in culminating in its subsequent sale to RWE in 2003.
He became CEO of the ensuring the delivery of the commitments we have made in our business plan.
successor Company and a member of the RWE Group Executive Committee.
External appointments He was a Non-Executive Director of Wolseley Plc from July 2004 until The Windsor Leadership Trust Company Vice President and Trustee November 2013.
Andrew was appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman BUPA Association Member of Elementis plc on 1 April 2014 and became Non-Executive Chairman of Elementis plc on 24 April 2014.
Dominique Reiniche MBA 60 External appointments Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee To be appointed to the Board with effect from 20 July 2016 ofElementis plc Dominique has a wealth of operational experience in Europe and Member of the CBI Presidents Committee has international consumer marketing and innovation experience.
Trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support and Earth Trust Dominique is Independent Vice Chairman of CHR Hansen Holdings A S and Fellow of the Energy Institute also a Non-Executive Director of Mondi Plc, Paypal Europe and AXA SA.
Dominique started her career with Procter & Gamble AG before moving to 8.
Philip Remnant CBE FCA MA 61 Kraft Jacobs Suchard AG as Director of Marketing and Strategy where she Independent Non-Executive Director was also a member of the Executive Committee.
Dominique previously held a Appointed to the Board on 31 March 2014 number of senior roles at Coca-Cola Enterprises and at Coca-Cola Company, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee including President Western Europe, President Europe and Chairman Philip is a senior investment banker and brings substantial advisory and Europe.
Until December 2015, Dominique was a Non-Executive Director regulatory experience to the Board.
A chartered accountant, he is Senior ofPeugeot-Citroen SA.
Independent Director of Prudential Plc and Chairman of M&G Group Limited, External appointments Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel, Senior Independent Director of UK Non-Executive Director of Mondi Plc Financial Investments Limited and Chairman of City of London Investment Non-Executive Director of Paypal Europe Trust plc.
Previously, Philip was Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston Non-Executive Director of AXA SA Europe and Head of the UK Investment Banking Department.
Philip was Independent Vice Chairman of CHR Hansen Holdings A S Director General of the Takeover Panel for two years between 2001 and 2003, and again in 2010.
He served on the Board of Northern Rock plc from 2008 to 11.
Kevin Beeston FCMA 53 2010 and from 2007 to 2012 was Chairman of the Shareholder Executive.
Independent Non-Executive Director External appointments Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2016 Senior Independent Director and member of the Audit, Nomination and Kevin has a wealth of commercial, financial and high level management Remuneration Committees of Prudential Plc experience.
Kevin is Chairman of Taylor Wimpey plc and Equiniti plc and Chairman of M&G Group Limited also a NonExecutive Director of The Football Association Premier League Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel Limited.
Previously Kevin spent 25 years at Serco plc, where he held Non-Executive Director of UK Financial Investments Limited the rolesof Finance Director, Chief Executive and nally Chairman until Non-Executive Chairman of City of London Investment Trust plc 2010.
Kevin waspreviously Chairman of Domestic & General Limited and Governor of Goodenough College Partnerships in Care Limited and a Non-Executive Director of IMI plc.
Director and Trustee of St Pauls Cathedral Foundation External appointments Chairman of Taylor Wimpey plc Chairman of Equiniti plc Non-Executive Director of The Football Association Premier League Limited
