68 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive Committee 1.
Dr. Tony Ballance BSc Hons, MA Econ, PhD 51 6.
Martin Kane BSc, CEng, CEnv, MICE, MIWEM, FIW 63 Director, Strategy and Regulation Chief Engineer Tonys extensive experience in utility policy and regulation leaves him ideally Martin joined Severn Trent Water in 1975 and was appointed Chief Engineer in placed to lead the Companys strategic and regulatory work.
He has held various senior roles giving him an extensive and unique Severn Trent he held the posts of Chief Economist for Ofwat, Director of understanding of the design, construction and operation of water and waste London Economics and Director of Stone and Webster Consultants.
water treatment plants, water distribution networks and sewerage systems.
Martin was Director of Customer Relations, Severn Trent Plc, from May 2006 External appointments until January 2012, and Chief Executive officer of Severn Trent Services until Trustee, the National Forest Company July 2014.
Member of Water UK Council External appointments Member of the Boards of Utilities and Service Industries Training Limited 2.
Sarah Bentley BSc Hons, Management Science Trustee of International Society for Trenchless Technology withComputing 44 Chief Customer officer 7.
Bronagh Kennedy BA Hons 52 Sarah joined Severn Trent in December 2014 as the Chief Customer officer, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary responsible for household customers, Group IS and Group Transformation.
Bronagh joined Severn Trent in June 2011.
Bronagh is a solicitor and was She previously worked for Accenture as Managing Director of their 3 billion previously Group Company Secretary and General Counsel at Mitchells global digital business focused on digital marketing, mobility and analytics & Butlers, where she worked for 15 years.
Prior to that, she was a Senior for customers, employees and the enterprise.
Prior to Accenture, Sarah was Associate at Allen & Overy.
She is a member of the GC100 Group.
CEO of Datapoint, an Alchemy backed company delivering CRM services, and Senior Vice President of eLoyalty, a global CRM and marketing consultancy.
She was SVP of the European Business, led the sales and operations activity 8.
James Bowling BA Hons Econ, ACA 47 in North America and ran eLoyalty Ventures L. L. C. working in Silicon Valley, Chief Financial officer Austin and New York.
Please see full biography on page 66.
External appointments Twizzletwig Limited Director 9.
Helen Miles CIMA 45 Twizzletwig Limited Secretary Group Commercial Director Helen joined Severn Trent in November 2014 as the Chief Commercial 3.
Emma FitzGerald MA, DPhil Oxon, MBA 49 officer and brings with her a breadth of commercial experience having Managing Director, Wholesale Operations worked within regulated businesses and sectors across Telecoms, Leisure Please see full biography on page 67. and Banking.
As a member of the UK Board, Helen was instrumental in delivering HomeServes future growth strategy and ensuring a sustainable, 4.
Evelyn Dickey BSc Hons 53 customer-focused business.
As an experienced finance professional, Helen was previously Chief Financial officer for Openreach, part of BT Group plc, Director of Human Resources and has extensive experience of delivering major business transformation Evelyn joined Severn Trent in November 2006.
Evelyn has extensive HR across the Group.
Prior to BT Group, Helen worked in a variety of sectors experience leading design and delivery of major change programmes, and organisations such as Bass Taverns, Barclays Bank, Compass Group business restructuring, employee relations, resourcing, executive and HSBC.
remuneration, organisational capability and performance management initiatives.
Before joining Severn Trent, Evelyn worked in HR consultancy andas HR Director HR Operations for Boots the Chemist.
Andy Smith BTech Hons 55 External appointments Managing Director, Business Services Non-Executive Director, Nuclear Decommissioning Authority Andy was appointed to the role of MD, Business Services on its creation in 2014 having previously been responsible for the drinking water business within Severn Trent Water.
Andy brings to the role a broad range of executive 5.
Olivia Gareld BA Hons 40 and operational expertise gained from diverse sectors.
He has worked in Chief Executive the UK and overseas with global businesses such as BP, Mars and Pepsi in Please see full biography on page 66. both engineering, HR and operational management roles.
Previously he has served as a member of the Board at Severn Trent Plc and at Boots Group Plc.
Committee membership key External appointments Audit Committee Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Corporate Responsibility Committee Member of the Audit and Nominations Committees of Diploma PLC Executive Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Treasury Committee
