82 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee Introduction from the Chairman of theAudit Committee I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee which details the role of the Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in discharging its oversight responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial statements, the assessment of the effectiveness of the system of Internal Controls and Risk Management.
The Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the relationship with our external Auditor, including the assessment of their ongoing objectivity and oversees theassurance of regulatory returns made by Severn Trent Water Limited to Ofwat.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Head of John Coghlan Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and, if required, external professional advisers.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Financial statements and accounting policies The Committee looked carefully at those aspects of the financial statements which Key areas of focus required significant accounting judgments or where there was estimation uncertainty.
In accordance with its Terms of Reference, which These areas are explained in note 4 of the financial statements on page123.
were updated during the year, thekey areas of focus The Committee receives detailed reports from both the Chief Financial Officer and the of the Audit Committee in2015 16 included: external Auditor on these areas and on any other matters which they believe should be financial statements and accounting policies: drawn to the attention of the Committee.
The Committee also reviews the draft of the Risk Management and Internal Controls: external Auditors report on the financial statements, with particular reference to those matters reported as carrying risks of material misstatement.
The Committee discusses oversight of internal and external audit: the range of possible treatments both with management and with the external Auditors responsibility for the external Auditor tender, and satisfies itself that the judgments made by management are robust and should be including making a recommendation to the Board for the appointment or reappointment supported.
The significant issues that the Committee considered in 2015 16 were: ofthe Auditor: Determination of the provision for impairment of trade receivables in Severn Trent review of the adequacy of the Groups Water Limited: procedures for whistleblowing, reporting fraud and other inappropriate behaviour, The Committee receives information bi-annually on the level of the provision and including reviewing reports of all allegations on any changes in the methodology of calculating the provision.
attheir meetings: The amount of the provisions held for tax liabilities and the calculation of deferred review of the new Financial Reporting Council FRC reporting requirements on Going tax balances in relation to infrastructure income: Concernand Viability Statements: and The Committee received reports from management, setting out the reasons regulatory reporting obligations of our for, and the basis of calculation of, the adjustments to deferred tax in relation subsidiary Severn Trent Water Limited.
The Committee reports to the Board on its work and the Committees performance was Determination of the amount of the Groups retirement benefit obligations: included inthe review of the Board Committees  to on page 75.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions underlying the valuation of the obligations and considered whether the assumptions taken as a whole are appropriate.
The proposed classication and disclosure of items of income or expenditure During the year, there were four scheduled meetings asexceptional items: of the Audit Committee.
The attendance gures for these meetings are detailed below.
The Committee reviewed the reasons for classifying items as exceptional and considered whether there were items that had not been treated as exceptional Member of the Audit Committee Attendance thatmet the criteria.
John Coghlan Chairman 4 4 Philip Remnant 4 4 Whether the Groups non-household retail activities, which will be transferred Martin Lamb 4 4 to the Water Plus joint venture with United Utilities, should be treated as a discontinued operation.
The Committee considered the judgment made that the disposal of the nonhousehold retail business was not highly probable at the balance sheet date and, inview of the status of the CMA review at that date, concurred with the judgment not to classify the business as discontinued.
For all of the matters described above the Committee concluded that the treatment adopted in the Group financial statements was appropriate.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the evidence and assumptions underpinning the use of the Going Concern assumption in preparing the accounts and in making the statement made in the Directors report that the Company is a Going Concern.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 83 This was carried out in conjunction with the consideration of the Viability Statement Internal Controls onpage 47.
The Committee reviewed the draft results announcements for interim and full year results and the proposed presentations to analysts and paid particular attention to the tone of the announcements and presentations to consider their consistency with the financial statements.
The Committee receives regular reports from Internal Audit and reviews In reviewing the financial statements, the Committee receives input from the management letters received from the Disclosure Committee, a sub-committee of the Executive Committee which is external Auditor.
chaired by the Chief Financial officer.
The Audit Committee reviewed the outcome of the process to confirm that the report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Disclosure Committee undertook a detailed review of the Annual Report and Accounts prior to making a recommendation to the Board that it could make the fair, balanced and understandable statements contained in the Directors Responsibility Statement on Identies principal risks and page 106.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte reported to the Committee on its review of the halfrelated controls.
year interim results and on its audit of the year end financial statements.
Risk Management The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Risk Management process and the effectiveness of the system of Internal Controls on behalf of the Board and keeps under review ways in which to enhance the control and assurance arrangements.
The Audit Committee receives reports at every meeting from the Chief Financial Provides guidance to risk owners officer detailing the significant risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, an on the Boards tolerance assessment of the effectiveness of controls over each of those risks and an action for different types of risk.
plan to improve controls where this has been assessed as necessary.
The Committee reviewed the processes for, and outputs from, our Enterprise Risk Management process, through which the principal risks and related controls are identied.
The Committee discussed the approach to documenting the Boards risk appetite and providing guidance to risk owners on the Boards tolerance for different types of risk.
In addition, it monitored the ongoing development of our compliance and Reviews the Groups approach assurance processes in respect of the key risks.
The Board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group have been in place for the year to 31 March 2016 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, which is in accordance with the Code and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting September 2014 the Guidance.
During its review of risk management during 2015 16, the Board explicitly considered the target position for significant risks.
Reviews the procedures, systems and controls designed to prevent and The Board considered whether target risk positions are appropriate and confirmed detect fraud and bribery, including that suitable timescales are agreed for reaching these target positions.
the adequacy of whistleblowing arrangements for the Group.
Internal Controls The Board is responsible for the Groups Internal Control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the systems of Internal Control, including Risk Management, financial, operational and compliance aspects, in accordance with the requirements of the Code and the Guidance, and these systems have been in place for the year ending 31 March 2016 and up to the date of the Annual Report.
The Internal Control system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Throughout the year the Committee has received regular reports from Internal Audit covering the Internal Control framework in respect of financial and operating performance, significant projects and for compliance matters, with the key audit findings and the associated managements actions discussed by the Committee.
During the year the Committee examined the requirements of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the assessment and reporting of longerterm viability and internal control.
84 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee The Groups procedures for exercising control and managing risk in relation to Internal Audit financial reporting and preparation of consolidated accounts include: the formulation and communication of Group accounting policies which are regularly updated for developments in IFRS and other reporting requirements: specication of a set of financial controls that all of the Groups operating businesses are required to implement as a minimum: The Head of Internal Audit and his team report on a day-to-day basis deployment of a Group-wide consolidation system with controls to restrict access to the Executive Committee.
and maintain integrity of data: recruitment, training and development of appropriately qualied and experienced financial reporting personnel: and oversight by the Disclosure Committee, a sub-committee of STEC, of the Groups compliance with its disclosure obligations.
To support these control activities, the Audit Committee receives reports from This work is summarised and reported to Internal Audit which provide objective assurance on risk management, governance theCommittee on a regular basis.
The external Auditor reports significant financial control issues to the Audit Committee.
An independent technical assurer, Jacobs, provides objective assurance in relation to Severn Trent Water Limiteds reporting against performance commitments and ODIs in the Annual Performance Report.
Deloitte audit the regulatory financial reporting and the price control and additional segmental reporting and provide specic The Head of Internal Audit can raise any assurance on the additional regulatory information, all of which is included in the issues with the Committee or its Chairman Annual Performance Report.
at any time during the year.
The Committee reviews the procedures, systems and controls designed to prevent and detect fraud and bribery and receives a log of incidents of fraud or bribery every six months, which includes the actions taken to investigate and respond to the The Head of Internal Audit and his team report on incidents.
There were no material incidents during the year.
a day-to-day basis to the Executive Committee on the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal The Audit Committee has not identied nor has been advised of any failings or controls and the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups weaknesses which it has deemed to be significant to the Group during the course of assets and resources.
This work is summarised and its review of internal control systems in 2015 16. reported to the Committee at every meeting and is a key element of the assurance that the Committee External Auditor tender receives on the risks and controls in the Group.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large The Head of Internal Audit is free to raise any issues Companies Market Investigation Order.
As a result, the Committee formally tendered with the Committee or its Chairman at any time during the year.
the external audit service during the 2015 16 financial year.
The tender was carried out in accordance with the OJEU regulations.
Four firms responded to the invitation to The Internal Audit function is supported via a cotender, including the incumbent Auditor, Deloitte who were first appointed as Auditor source arrangement with PwC.
The Committee believes that this arrangement adds value beyond for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Each firm was provided with access to a virtual data that of a full Internal Audit function, through greater room and meetings with key Directors and Executives.
Responses to requests for access to expertise and the ability to independently further information were provided to all firms involved in the tender.
made to a panel comprising the Audit Committee, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, the the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
The proposals received audit plan and budget are reviewed at least annually were assessed against pre-determined criteria including Service Team, Service by the Committee.
Delivery, Implementation and Value for Money.
Following careful consideration, the Committee agreed that, across the criteria as a whole, Deloitte had delivered the best proposal and therefore the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed as Auditor.
The Board is proposing a resolution to the AGM to reappoint Deloitte as Auditor for the year ending 31 March 2017.
There are no contractual obligations to restrict the Committees choice of external Auditor.
In respect of 2015 16, Deloitte audited all significant subsidiaries of the Group.
Annually, the Committee reviews the external Auditors audit plan and reviews and assesses information provided by them conrming their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards.
The Committee also reviews their effectiveness, which involves: assessment of the Auditor by the Committee and key Executives: and conrmation that the Auditor meets minimum standards of qualication, independence, expertise, effectiveness and communication.
These assessments are carried out prior to the Committee recommending to the Board that the external Auditor be proposed for reappointment at the Companys AGM.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 85 The Audit Partner, currently Kari Hale, is required to rotate after a maximum of five Membership and Director attendance during years, 2019 20 being his last financial year.
the year ended 31 March 2016 The members of the Committee in 2015 16 were Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services in 2015 16 John Coghlan as Chairman, Philip Remnant and are provided in note 5 to the accounts on page 129.
Martin Lamb, whose experience and backgrounds are set out on pages 66 and 67.
Only members Policy on the provision of non-audit services of the Committee have the right to attend The Company has approved a formal policy on the provision of non-audit services Committee meetings.
aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence and objectivity of the The Board is satisfied that all the Committee external Auditor.
members have recent and relevant financial experience and that all members of the Committee The policy sets out the approach to be taken by the Group when using the services remain independent.
of the external Auditor, including requiring that certain services provided by the The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial external Auditor are pre-approved by the Committee or its Chairman.
officer, Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and the external Auditor normally It defines the non-audit services that may be provided by the external Auditor attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
and separately sets out those non-audit services which are prohibited, since the Other members of senior management are also independence of the external Auditor could be threatened.
invited to attend as appropriate.
The Committee regularly holds private discussions with the Head The policy was reviewed by the Committee during this year and the schedule of ofInternal Audit and external Auditor separately.
services that the Auditor may be used for was amended to exclude those services which are not permitted under the FSCs proposed new ethical standard for Auditors.
The policy was also amended to prohibit aggregate fees for non-audit services in excess of the audit fee for the year.
Non-audit services where the external Auditor may be used include: audit-related services required by statute or regulation, services related to fraud, Corporate Responsibility report reviews and regulatory support.
The approval of the Committee or its Chairman is always required if a non-audit service provided by the Auditor is expected to cost more than 100,000.
In the course of completing the disposal of the Water Purification business, the purchaser requested an audit of the financial statements of the disposal Group.
Since Deloitte had already performed work on some of the companies as part of the Group audit, the most pragmatic and economic solution was for Deloitte to perform this work.
Other assurance services include certain agreed upon procedures performed by Deloitte in connected with Severn Trent Water Limiteds regulatory reporting requirements to Ofwat.
In the previous year, the balance included fees in connection with PR14.
In approving these non-audit fees, the Committee considered the overall ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees and given the scope of work, considered that Deloitte was best placed to perform these services.
Severn Trent Water Limited The regulated activities carried out by Severn Trent Water Limited also require annual reporting submissions to Ofwat which are reviewed by the Committee.
They include an annual submission on Severn Trent Water Limiteds regulatory performance and obligations known as the Annual Performance Report, together with a Compliance Statement and a statement that underpins the customer charges made by Severn Trent Water Limited.
In March 2016, the Committee reviewed Severn Trent Water Limiteds statement of risks, strengths and weaknesses, which is a requirement of Ofwats Company Monitoring Framework.
This document sets out the process, timeline and assurance framework in place for information published for customers and other stakeholders, including the Annual Performance Report.
Deloitte provides an audit opinion on the regulatory financial reporting and price control segmentation sections of the Annual Performance Report, and assurance of certain aspects of additional regulatory information that is included.
The Annual Performance Report also provides an overall picture of performance, covering many aspects which are not financial including performance against Severn Trent Water Limiteds commitments and ODIs.
Severn Trent Water Limited appoints engineering consultants, Jacobs, to report and provide assurance on those aspects.
The Committee receives reports from Jacobs and Deloitte on their work as part of its review of the Annual Performance Report.
