62 Corporate social responsibility continued Community Little Havens Hospice At Shawbrook we are committed to supporting local causes that are close to the hearts of our employees and the communities in which we work, aspiring to make a difference.
Dedication to the community is embedded in our core values, and we understand the importance of investing our time and contributions in nonprofit organisations.
Charitable partnerships: Over the past three years we have put our time and energy into our charitable partnerships ensuring that they are looked after and rewarded with the greatest achievable donations.
Throughout 2016 we continued to develop our charity programme, based on an approach to social investment grounded in the local communities where our employees and customers live.
Our two principal chosen organisations are the educational charity Future First, and Contact the Elderly, which supports older people and combats loneliness.
During 2016 we contributed over 102,000 Little Havens Hospice focuses on to community groups across the country.
the individual needs of children with Over the past financial year these contributions allowed us to terminal illnesses, offering short support the building of and roll-out of a mentoring portal that Future First provides to teenagers preparing for life after school, respite breaks and care for children and have helped Contact the Elderly continue its excellent work at the end of their lives.
tackling loneliness and social isolation among older people.
Volunteers play an integral role in every aspect of care, and Shawbrook also operates a Communities Committee which provides care is offered not just for patients but for their families, friends grants to UK registered charities, particularly in communities where and neighbours too.
Through its grant programmes focused on education, local and employee-nominated charities, it was able The team at Little Havens aims to make each childs journey to support more than 30 charities over the year.
and that of their family as comfortable as possible, creating special memories along the way.
Employee fundraising: Working with multiple charitable partners over the years has been deeply satisfying: however, Shawbrooks Shawbrooks donation of 15,000 has helped the charity approach to investing in the community goes much further than continue to provide respite breaks, symptom control and enddonations.
We encourage staff to nominate causes that would of-life care to youngsters not expected to reach adulthood.
benefit from our support, so that our contributions can reflect their wishes and concerns.
We also recognise that our employees Lydia Plews, one of Little Havens Hospices fundraisers, said, volunteer their time and energy to such causes: acknowledging Having a child with a life-limiting illness, or coping with this, we aim to match any funds they raise.
the death of a child, is something most of us couldnt even contemplate.
Whether a child is in our care for years, months, In this way, over the past financial year we have been able to weeks or sometimes just hours, its about making every support over 30 good causes through financial donations and staff second count for them and their families.
Little Havens is a fundraising, ranging from our most popular employee initiative, special place but it could not exist without support from the dress-down Fridays, to a 10,000ft parachute jump.
community and businesses like Shawbrook.
I cant thank you enough for all the fundraising you have undertaken this past year.
Thanks to this generosity we can continue caring for The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed on its children and families across Essex when they need us most.
behalf by the Chief Executive Officer.
Steve Pateman Chief Executive Officer 6 March 2017 Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 63 Corporate GovernanCe Corporate governance 64 Corporate governance report 66 Board of Directors 91 Directors remuneration report 105 Directors report 110 Statement of Directors responsibilities 111 Independent auditors report Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
