com I Stock code: SHI Corporate governance constructively in relation to both the development of strategy LEADERSHIP and performance of SIG against objectives set out by the Board.
The Board Biographical details of each of the Directors, which illustrate their At 31 December 2016, the Board was made up of seven members range of experience, are set out on pages 48 and 49. comprising the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four NonThe Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and Executive Directors.
The Directors who held office during the year remuneration of both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors is were: detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 85.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and Non-Executive Chairman MR L. VAN fide WALLE clearly defined.
The division of responsibilities is set out in writing, Interim Chief Executive appointed MR M. EWELL reviewed by the Company Secretary and agreed by the Board on a 11 November 2016, and served regular basis.
The Board approves any necessary changes to reflect as an Independent Non-Executive changes in legislation, policy and practices.
The Chairman leads the Director throughout the year until Board and sets its agenda, ensuring that all Directors, particularly that date the Non-Executive Directors, are able to make an effective MR D. G. ROBERTSON Group Finance Director contribution.
He also ensures that there is a constructive relationship MS A. ABT Independent Non-Executive Director between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all operational matters which include MS J. E. ASHDOWN Independent Non-Executive Director the implementation of the Groups strategy and policies approved by Senior Independent Non-Executive MR C. V. GEOGHEGAN the Board.
Director MR J. C. NICHOLLS Independent Non-Executive Director The roles for the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director are agreed and set out in writing: a summary MR S. R. MITCHELL Chief Executive stepped down on of their roles and division of responsibility is set out below: 11 November 2016 Chairman Mr I.
B. Duncan was appointed a Non-Executive Director with effect z Responsible for overall leadership and governance of the Board from 1 January 2017.
It was announced on 12 December 2016 that including induction, development and performance evaluation : Mr J. C. Nicholls intends to retire from the Board on 31 March 2017 z Ensures that the Directors have an understanding of the views of as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee, and the Companys major Shareholders: and it was proposed that Mr Duncan would succeed Mr Nicholls as Chair of the Audit Committee following Mr Nicholls retirement.
z Ensures a healthy culture of challenge and debate at Board and Committee meetings.
Mr S. R. Mitchell stepped down from the Board as Chief Executive by mutual agreement on 11 November 2016.
Mr M. Ewell, a NonThe Chairman, at the time of his appointment, met and continues to Executive Director, was appointed as Interim Chief Executive from meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
11 November 2016 on a full time basis whilst the Board conducted an external search for a new Chief Executive, which is currently Chief Executive underway.
z Responsible for the effective leadership of the Group: Mr D. G. Robertson retired from the Board as Group Finance Director z Strong and focused management and development of the with effect from 31 January 2017 and was succeeded by Mr N. W. Groups operations: Maddock with effect from 1 February 2017. z Implementation of the Groups objectives and strategy agreed by the Board: Biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report appear on pages 48 and 49.
Details of Committee z Maintains good relationships and communications with investors: memberships are set out on page 54. z Works closely with the Chief Financial Officer to ensure At 31 December 2016, SIG had two female Board members, appropriate financial controls are in place: and equating to 29% female representation of its Directors.
z Develops and implements policies integral to improving the The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be business, including in relation to Health & Safety and Corporate independent of management and free of any relationship which Responsibility.
could materially interfere with the exercise oftheir independent Senior Independent Director judgment.
The Board has satisfied itself that there is no z compromise to the independence of those Directors who have Available for approach by or representations from investors and other appointments in outside entities.
The Board considers Shareholders, where communications through the Chairman or that each of the Non-Executive Directors bring their own senior Executive Directors may not seem appropriate: level of experience and expertise and that the balance between z A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the Non-Executive and Executive representation encourages healthy other Directors when necessary: and independent challenge to the Executive Directors and senior z Available to chair the Board in the absence of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr C. V. Geoghegan.
The Non-Executive Directors have been appointed for their specific areas of expertise and knowledge.
Their wide-ranging experience and backgrounds ensure that they can debate matters 51 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Corporate governance CONTINUED There is no maximum number of Directors but there shall at no time These matters include: be less than two.
Directors may be appointed by the Company z Determining the strategy and control of the Group: by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by z the Board shall hold office only until the next Annual General Amendments to the structure and capital of the Company and Meeting AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment by the Group: Shareholders.
The Board may, from time to time, appoint one or z Approval of financial reporting: more Directors as Managing Director or to fulfil any other executive z Oversight of the Groups internal controls: function within the Company for such term, remuneration and other conditions of appointment as it may determine, and it may revoke z Approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: such appointment subject to the provisions of the Companies Act.
z Board membership and appointments: Election and re-election of Directors z Acquisitions and disposals above a prescribed limit: Under the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election z Corporate governance matters: and at the AGM immediately following their appointment and to rez Approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors will seek election or re-election at the Companys AGM The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Board each year.
To enable Shareholders to make an informed decision, Committees, including the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration the 2017 Notice of AGM includes biographical details and a Committees.
The Board also appoints Committees to approve statement as to why the Company believes that the Directors should specific processes as deemed necessary.
For example, during be re-elected.
the year, Board Committees were established to approve bank documentation, share allotments, and the preliminary and interim It is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors results announcements.
standing for election or re-election brings considerable management experience and an independent perspective to the Boards The Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are discussions and is considered to be independent of management available on request from the Company Secretary or on the SIG and free from any relationship or circumstance that could affect, or website www.
appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgment.
To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively, all Directors The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM that the performance have full access to all relevant information and to the services of of each individual continues to be effective and demonstrates the Company Secretary, whose responsibility it is for ensuring that commitment to the role.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
There is an The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the agreed procedure whereby Directors wishing to take independent Directors Remuneration Report on page 73.
Full details of Directors legal advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at the remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of Companys expense.
share options held are set out on pages 78 to 85 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed including the formal minuting of any Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of unresolved concerns that any Director may have in connection the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the with the operation of the Company.
During the year there were no Companys registered office and will be available at the AGM, which such unresolved issues.
Further, on resignation, ifaNon-Executive is scheduled to take place on 11 May 2017.
Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him her to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
Board procedures and responsibilities The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc All Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources basis as required by time-critical business needs.
The Board met to undertake their duties.
Appropriate training is available to all formally on ten occasions during the year and individual attendance Directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
at those and the Board Committee meetings is set out in the table Following the implementation of BoardPad, a secure iPad paperless on page 53.
All Board members are supplied with information in meeting system in 2012, its successful roll-out has progressively a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge resulted in the replacement of hard copy packs with electronic their duties.
Board and Committee papers are sent out seven versions.
Paperless meetings are now the norm, not only for the days before meetings take place.
The Directors are provided with Board but also its Committees and the Group Executive Committee.
opportunities for training to ensure that they are kept up-to-date This supports our online drive across the Group and is consistent on relevant new legislation and regulation changes, corporate with reducing the impact of our operations on the environment.
governance developments and changing commercial risks.
There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved for the Board for collective decision, which can be viewed on the Companys website, www.
com I Stock code: SHI Directors conflicts of interests Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 to avoid any situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
This duty is in addition to the obligation that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company in which they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest.
Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, ifa companys Articles of Association permit and Shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of any conflicts by the Board.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures have been applied during the year and are now included as a regular item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
The Board believes that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Directors of the Company.
Attendance by Directors at meetings of the Board and Committees in 2016 The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year to 31 December 2016: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations 1 10 meetings 4 meetings 8 meetings 5 meetings Ms A. Abt 10 4 8 5 Ms J. E. Ashdown 10 3 8 5 3 Mr M. Ewell 10 3 6 5 Mr C. V. Geoghegan 10 4 8 5 2 Mr S. R. Mitchell 9 N A N A 4 Mr J. C. Nicholls 10 4 8 5 Mr D. G. Robertson 10 N A N A N A Mr L. Van fide Walle 10 N A N A 5 1.
There was one unscheduled Board meeting in 2016.
Mr S. R. Mitchell stepped down from the Board on 11 November 2016 and attended all meetings to which he was entitled to attend.
Mr M. Ewell was appointed Interim Chief Executive on 11 November 2016 and attended all meetings to which he was entitled to attend.
Mr Ewell was no longer an Audit Committee or Remuneration Committee member from 11 November 2016.
Of the ten Board meetings held in 2016, two were held by telephone conference call.
This table only shows those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
Where N A appears in the table the Director listed isnot a member of the Committee.
All of the Directors in office at the date of the 2016 AGM were in attendance at that meeting.
Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are discussed.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with the other Independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
In general, the Board endeavours to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations both in the UK & Ireland and in Mainland Europe to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Board members also attend divisional and Group management conferences whenever possible.
All Directors attended the 2016 AGM and were available to answer any questions raised by the Shareholders.
53 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Corporate governance CONTINUED GROUP BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Audit Committee operates under The Nominations Committee operates The Remuneration Committee operates written Terms of Reference, which are under written Terms of Reference, under written Terms of Reference, consistent with current best practice.
which are consistent with current best which are consistent with current best The Committee comprises only practice.
The Committee comprises the practice.
The Committee comprises only Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee attends Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the AGM to respond to any Shareholder The meetings of the Committee are the AGM to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the chaired by the Non-Executive Chairman.
questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
The Committees The Chairman of the Committee attends Committees activities.
The Committees report is set out on pages 62 to 65. the AGM to respond to any Shareholder report is set out on pages 68 to 85. questions that might be raised on the The Group operates an outsourced Delegated authorities: Committees activities.
The Committees Internal Audit function, undertaken by Sets remuneration and incentives for report is set out on pages 66 to 67.
The Board annually reviews the Executive Directors, approves and the need for such a function and the Delegated authorities: monitors remuneration and incentive effectiveness of the outsourced Internal Ensures that the Board and its plans for the Group, and assesses and Audit Function.
Committees have the optimum balance makes recommendations to the Board of skills, knowledge and experience on the policy of Executive remuneration.
Delegated authorities: by nominating suitable candidates for Monitors the integrity of financial Members: approval by the Board to fill Executive reporting, the performance of the Mr C. V. Geoghegan Chairman and Non-Executive vacancies.
external Auditor and reviews the Ms A. Abt effectiveness of the Groups systems of Members: Ms J. E. Ashdown internal control and related compliance Mr L. Van fide Walle Chairman Mr I.
Ms A. Abt Mr J. C. Nicholls Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr M. Ewell to 11 November 2016 Members: Mr M. Ewell Mr J. C. Nicholls Chairman Mr I.
B. Duncan Ms A. Abt Mr C. V. Geoghegan Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr J. C. Nicholls Mr I.
B. Duncan Mr C. V. Geoghegan Mr M. Ewell to 11 November 2016 GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE GROUP TAX AND TREASURY COMMITTEE The Executive Committee operates under written Terms of Reference.
The Committee The Treasury Committee operates under addresses operational issues and is responsible for implementing Group strategy and the written Treasury Policy Manual.
policies, day-to-day management and monitoring performance.
The Committee met The Committee considers liquidity and twelve times during the year.
funding, interest rate risk management, foreign exchange risk management, Mr C. Horn Members: counterparty credit risk management, Mr M. Ewell Chairman Group Operations Director tax risks and any other current Group Mr P. Denece Interim Chief Executive tax or treasury issues.
from 11 November 2016 Managing Director, France from 1 March 2016 Mr N. W. Maddock Members: Chief Financial Officer Mr M. Hamori Mr I. Jackson Chairman Managing Director, Germany from 1 February 2017 Group Financial Controller Mr R. T. Barclay from 1 March 2016 Mr N. W. Maddock Mr S. R. Mitchell previously Chairman Managing Director, UK & Ireland Chief Financial Officer Mrs L. H. Kennedy-McCarthy Chief Executive from 1 February 2017 to 11 November 2016 Group Human Resources Director Mr R. C. Monro Mr L. Lvovich Mr D. G. Robertson Company Secretary Group Finance Director Group Corporate Development Director Mrs S. Clarke Mr M. Pearson to 31 January 2017 Group Treasurer Group Chief Information Officer and Mr I. Norris Programmes Director Risk & Financial Controller 54 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 GOVERNANCE www.
com I Stock code: SHI 2014, the Board intends to conduct a formal externally facilitated Effectiveness and evaluation effectiveness and evaluation process in 2017.
Board effectiveness and performance evaluation The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the their training and development needs.
During the year a number of success of the Company.
During the year the Board continued its the Directors attended training courses and seminars on various ongoing evaluation process to assess its performance and that of its subjects, including those that the Chairman had identified as three principal Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
being areas where training would increase the knowledge and In December 2014, as part of this programme, the Board effectiveness of the Director.
The Board as a whole received training commissioned Equity Communications Limited, an independent on the Market Abuse Regulation.
Further training is programmed for third party with no other connection to the Company, to prepare 2017. a tailored Board evaluation process.
This was facilitated by way The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent of a questionnaire process with the emphasis, in addition to the Director, meet once a year without the Chairman present to assess evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees, his performance, taking into account the views of the Executive being targeted at identifying the future needs of the Board, including Directors.
Board succession planning and performance, strategy development and delivery, and Board skills and composition.
Each Director Risk management and internal control completed their questionnaire and these were then evaluated by the The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of independent facilitator who then prepared a report for the Chairman.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the Boards policies on risk and control The Chairman and the facilitator presented the results of the through the design and operation of appropriate internal control evaluation to the Board, which discussed the results of the systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than evaluation in detail at its January 2015 meeting.
The discussions eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and then focused on how the actions and improvements identified can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance through the process should be implemented.
The Board was against material misstatement or loss.
satisfied that the evaluation of its performance was a worthwhile exercise and that the Directors had participated on an open and The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the frank basis.
Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk management procedures In December 2016, an effectiveness survey of the Board and and compliance controls.
its Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nominations was undertaken.
The surveys were internally facilitated and carried out by The key elements of the existing systems of internal control, which questionnaire.
Each Director including the Chairman was asked to accord with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management and Internal place a score against a variety of questions and to make additional Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting the Risk comments where appropriate.
The surveys also sought to identify Guidance, are as follows: the extent to which the issues raised in the previous evaluation process had been addressed.
The summary report and response Open culture analysis for the December 2016 survey were presented to the Board The Board considers that the Group operates a risk-aware culture in January 2017, with suggested improvement actions.
with an open style of communication.
This facilitates the early identification of problems and issues, so that appropriate action is Whilst concluding that the Board, its individual Directors, and its taken quickly to minimise any impact on the business.
Committees continue to improve the Boards key processes and sub-committees effectiveness, and are perceived to be working Ongoing process for risk identification, evaluation and well, the evaluation identified a number of areas for improvement, management including Board succession planning.
In particular, being aware This process includes the following: that the Company had given a second profit warning in two years, z The Group Board maintains an overall corporate risk register, the Board evaluation had concluded that there was a need for the content of which is determined by regular discussions the Non-Executive Directors to improve their testing of Company between senior management, the Group Board and the Audit performance and progress, and to better understand the business Committee.
This is also formally reviewed twice yearly by drivers and competition.
the Audit Committee and discussed with the Board.
The risk The proposed Board priorities for 2017 will cover: register contains the significant risks faced by the Group and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a gross z Successfully appointing and on boarding the new Executive level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level Management Team.
after consideration of mitigating controls.
This provides the z Strengthening the balance sheet.
Board with the opportunity to review the level of risk that the z business is prepared to accept.
The register also contains the Increasing focus and insight into business trading and assurance provided over current key mitigating controls.
Where performance, together with relative competitive position.
further actions have been identified to mitigate risks to a level z Progressing an enhanced people agenda, including succession deemed acceptable, these are agreed with specific timelines for planning, strengthening front line management, change delivery and are monitored closely until fully implemented.
This is management and reviewing organisational design.
summarised in the Strategic Report on pages 16 to 19: z Refreshing strategy.
z The risk management process is cascaded throughout the The Board notes that the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to Group, with operating subsidiary boards responsible for carry out an externally facilitated Board evaluation at least every maintaining their own risk registers and assessing their internal three years.
Having last conducted such an evaluation in December control systems: 55 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Corporate governance CONTINUED z A defined organisation structure with appropriate delegation of Annual assessment of the effectiveness of systems of authority: internal control During 2016 the Board conducted a review of the effectiveness z Formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear of the Groups system of internal control.
This review covered all guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: controls including operational, compliance and risk management z Clear responsibilities on the part of financial management for the procedures, as well as financial controls.
maintenance of good financial controls and the production and review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management The Board and Audit Committee requested, received and reviewed information: reports from senior management, its advisers, the outsourced Internal Audit function and our external Auditor in order to assist z A comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget the Board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of for each operating company is prepared in detail and approved the Groups systems of internal controls.
Through the ongoing by the Chief Executive.
TheBoard approves the overall Groups processes outlined on pages 55 to 56, improvements in internal budget and plans.
Monthly actual results are reported against controls are continuously identified and action plans are devised.
budget and prior year and the forecast for the year isrevised Progress towards completion of actions is regularly monitored by where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances management and the Board.
The Board considers that none of the are questioned by the Board and remedial action taken where areas of improvement identified constitute a significant failing or appropriate.
Thereis also regular cash and treasury reporting to weakness.
TheBoard considers that the information that it receives the Chief Financial Officer and periodic reporting to the Board on is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups the Groups tax and treasury position: internal controls in accordance with the internal control guidance for z Provision to management and the Board of relevant, accurate Directors in the Code issued by the FRC.
and timely information including relevant key performance indicators, based on reliable management information systems Whistleblowing which are continually being improved and updated: The Group has in place a Whistleblowing Policy under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible z Monthly reports to the Board from the Chief Executive and Chief wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
A copy of this Financial Officer: policy is available on the Companys website www.
z Regular business unit management board meetings periodically The Company also has in place a confidential hotline which is attended by the Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, available to all of the Groups employees and provides a facility for Executive Board meetings and the Company Board meetings at them to bring matters to managements attention on a confidential which existing, new and evolving operational, financial and other basis.
The hotline is provided by an independent third party.
During risks are discussed, and appropriate actions to manage these 2016 these systems were operational throughout the Group.
A risks are agreed and followed up: full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a report is z Discussion of any significant issues or control weaknesses prepared for feedback to the complainant.
identified and, if considered necessary, their inclusion in reports to the Executive Board and the Company Board: The Company Secretary is required to report to the Audit Committee semi-annually on the integrity of these procedures, the state of z Operating units, both trading sites and central functions, ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2016 Group complete comprehensive Control Self Assessment CSA employees used this system to raise concerns about a number of questionnaires every six months.
These questionnaires require separate issues, all of which were appropriately responded to.
managers to respond to questions about procedures and controls in the unit for which they have responsibility.
These are Overall assessment analysed by local and Group management and all potential risks The risk framework, as outlined above, gives reasonable assurance or control failure issues which are raised by the CSA process are that the structure of controls in operation is appropriate to the classed in terms of escalation levels with any significant Group Groups situation and that there is an acceptable level of risk level issues being reported to the Audit Committee: and throughout the business.
z A structured and approved programme of Internal Audit visits The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, with the implementation of recommendations made being evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group monitored as part of a continuous programme of improvement.
and that this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial reporting In addition to the general internal controls and risk management processes described on pages 55 to 56, the Group also has specific Relations with Shareholders systems and controls to govern the financial reporting process and The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These systems Shareholders, including its employee Shareholders, to ensure that its include clear policies and procedures for ensuring that the Groups strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally financial reporting processes and the preparation of its Consolidated through the Annual Report and Accounts and the AGM.
The Accounts comply with all relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
Groups annual and interim results, aswell as all announcements These are comprehensively detailed in the Group Finance Manual, issued to the London Stock Exchange, are published on the which is used by the businesses in the preparation of their results.
The Company issues regular trading updates Financial control requirements are also set out in the Group Finance to themarket and these, together with copies of the presentations Manual.
made to analysts, can also be found on the Companys website.
In addition, a range of other corporate information is available to investors on the Companys website www.
com I Stock code: SHI The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Statement of the Directors on the disclosure of Relations are primarily responsible for direct investor relations.
The information to the Auditor Board is kept informed of investors views through distribution and regular discussion of analysts and brokers briefings and a The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this summary of investor opinion feedback.
In addition, feedback from Statutory Information confirm that: major Shareholders isreported to the Board by the Chairman and z So far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit the Chief Financial Officer and discussed at its meetings.
Formal information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and presentations are made to institutional Shareholders following the announcement of the Companys annual and interim results.
z Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant Each year, the Chairman offers one-to-one meetings with SIGs audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is largest Shareholders.
Following the release of the November 2016 aware of that information.
trading update and the change in Chief Executive, the Chairman met with eight of SIGs large institutional Shareholders.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Contact is also maintained, where appropriate, with Shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Chairman and Going concern the Senior Independent Director are available to discuss governance The Going Concern Statement can be found on page 34 of the and strategy with major Shareholders ifrequested, and both are Strategic Report.
prepared to contact individual Shareholders should any specific areas of concern or enquiry be raised.
Viability Statement Throughout the year, the Company responds to correspondence The Viability Statement can be found on page 34 of the Strategic received from Shareholders on a wide range of issues and also Report.
participates in a number of surveys and questionnaires submitted by a variety ofinvestor research bodies.
Although the other NonIndependent Auditor Executive Directors are not at present asked to meet the Companys On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, in accordance Shareholders, they regularly review the presentations of the annual with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions are to and interim results.
be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for Auditor of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix dialogue with private Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited its remuneration.
The remuneration of theAuditor for the year ended to attend.
All Directors attend the AGM and are available to answer 31 December 2016 is fully disclosed in Note 4 to the Consolidated any questions that Shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working Publication of Annual Report and Notice of AGM days before the meeting.
The Company provides a facility forShareholders to vote electronically and the Form of Proxy Shareholders are to note that the SIG plc Annual Report 2016, provides Shareholders with the option of withholding their vote on together with the Notice convening the AGM have been published a resolution if they so wish.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, on the Companys website www.
If Shareholders have unless a poll is validly called and, after each such vote, the number elected to receive Shareholder correspondence in hard copy, then of proxy votes received for or against the resolution together with the Annual Report and Notice convening the AGM will be distributed the number of abstentions is announced.
The Company Secretary to them.
ensures that votes are properly received and recorded.
Details of the proxies lodged on all resolutions are published on the Companys website immediately after the AGM.
Substantial shareholdings At the date of approval of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, the Company had received notification of the following shareholdings in excess of 3% of its issued share capital pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority as at 31 December 2016 and 13 March 2017: Voting Rights as at Voting Rights as at Shareholder 31 December 2016 % 13 March 2017 % Investec Asset Management 83,685,727 14.15% 83,685,727 14.15% IKO Enterprises Limited 43,129,710 7.29% 43,129,710 7.29% Schroder Investment Management Limited 33,016,449 5.58% 33,016,449 5.58% FIL Limited 29,955,004 5.06% 29,955,004 5.06% Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester Pension Fund 29,951,996 5.06% 29,951,996 5.06% UBS Asset Management 29,578,718 5.00% 29,578,718 5.00% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 26,799,365 4.53% 26,799,365 4.53% Norges Bank 18,276,867 3.09% 18,276,867 3.09% 57 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Corporate governance CONTINUED Annual General Meeting Post balance sheet events The Notice convening the AGM, which is to be held at the Details of post balance sheet events are included in Note 11 on Mercure Sheffield Parkway Hotel, Britannia Way, Catcliffe, Sheffield page 111 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
S60 5BD at 12 noon on Thursday 11May 2017, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details Related party transactions of the deadlines for exercising voting rights, will be circulated Save as disclosed in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial to all Shareholders that have elected to receive Shareholder Statements on page 137 and except for Directors service correspondence in hard copy at least 20 working days before the contracts, the Company did not have any material transactions meeting along with this Report.
The document will also be available or transactions of an unusual nature with, and did not make loans onthe SIG plc website www.
All Shareholders to, related parties in the periods in which any Director is or was are invited to the Companys AGM, at which they will have the materially interested.
opportunity to put questions to the Board.
Directors and Officers liability insurance and Other statutory disclosures indemnities The Company purchases liability insurance cover for Directors and Principal activity and business review Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries which gives appropriate The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialist cover for any legal action brought against them.
The Company has products to construction and related markets in the UK, Ireland and also provided an indemnity which was in force during the financial Mainland Europe.
The main product sectors supplied are Insulation year for its Directors to the extent permitted by the law in respect of and Energy Management, Exteriors and Interiors.
liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not The Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report on pages 1 provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have to 46 contain a review of these activities and comment on the acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The financial risk management No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no qualifying objectives, policies and key performance indicators of the Company pension scheme indemnity provisions have been made either during are also set out in the Strategic Report.
the year or by the date of approval of this Directors Report.
As at the date of this report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, Financial instruments which have occurred since theend of the financial year.
Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks arising from Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees including financial instruments is set out on pages 32 to 34 and in Note 19 to disabled employees are disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 120 to 123.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political donations were made during the Acquisitions and disposals year 2015: nil.
Details of acquisitions made and businesses identified for sale or Details of the Groups policies in relation to Corporate governance closure are covered in Note 11 on page 111 and Note 14 on pages are disclosed on pages 51 to 61.
115 to 116 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Group Companies Group results and dividends A full list of Group Companies and their registered office addresses The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended are disclosed on pages 161 to 163.
31 December 2016 is shown on page 88.
The movement in Group reserves during the year isshown on page 92 in the Consolidated Share capital Statement of Changes in Equity.
Segmental information is set out in The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 100 to into ordinary shares of 10p each.
Company had a called up share capital of 591,460,301 ordinary The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.83p per share shares of 10p each 2015: 591,347,148.
2015: 2.91p which, together with the interim dividend of 1.83p per share 2015: 1.69p, makes a total for the year ended 31 December During the year ended 31 December 2016, options were exercised 2016 of 3.66p 2015: 4.60p.
Payment of the final dividend, if pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in approved at the AGM, will be made on 7 July 2017 to Shareholders the allotment of 113,153 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary registered at the close of business on 9 June 2017. shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this Report.
Details of outstanding Greenhouse gases options under the Groups Employee and Executive Schemes are set out in Note 9 on pages 108 to 110 which also contains details of Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are detailed on options granted over unissued share capital.
pages 38 to 39 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Employees Details of the Groups policies relating to employees are detailed on pages 36 to 46 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
com I Stock code: SHI The Board may determine that the Shareholder is not entitled to Rights attaching to shares exercise any right conferred by being a Shareholder if he she or The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the any person with an interest in shares has been sent a Notice under Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association may Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public be changed by special resolution of the Company.
A Shareholder companies the power to require information with respect to interests whose name appears on the Companys Register of Members can in their voting shares and he she or any interested person failed choose whether his shares are evidenced by share certificates ie tosupply the Company with the information requested within 14 in certificated form or held in electronic ie uncertificated form in days after delivery of that Notice.
The Board may also decide that CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no Subject to any restrictions below, Shareholders may attend any transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of Shareholder or his representative who is present at a general a Notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every required by the relevant Section 793 Notice, whichever is the earlier.
Shareholder or his representative who is present has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the Transfer of shares registered Shareholder.
The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent on a show of hands unless before or on the declaration of the dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open result of a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded by the and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer Chairman of the meeting, or by at least five Shareholders or their of a certificated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, representatives present in person and having the right to vote, or by duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company any Shareholders or their representatives present in person having or any other place decided by the Board accompanied by a at least 10% of the total voting rights of all Shareholders, or by any certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence Shareholders or their representatives present in person holding as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the ordinary shares in which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of least one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
shares: and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary Transfer of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST resolution but the amount of such dividends cannot exceed the and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates CREST.
and for the periods they decide provided the distributable profits of the Company justify such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by Variation of rights an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders, offer any Shareholder the If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
varied or revoked either: Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the nominal value of the issued shares of the class: or Company, unless the Directors decide otherwise.
ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the of an extraordinary resolution passed by the Shareholders, class.
divide among the Shareholders allor any part of the assets of The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to the Company and he she can value any assets and determine them.
If there is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing how the division shall be carried out as between the members or shares, rights attaching to new shares can take priority over the differentclasses of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the are deemed to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a benefit of the members.
NoShareholders can be compelled to reduction of paid up capital, or if another share of that same class is accept any asset which would give them a liability.
issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend, or in respect of capital or more favourable voting rights.
Voting at general meetings Any Form of Proxy sent by the Company to Shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
59 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Corporate governance CONTINUED Election and re-election of Directors Acquisition by the Company of its own ordinary The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice shares has been given in accordance with the Companies Act, remove any Shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of Director before the expiration of his her period of office.
The office of 59,134,874 of its own shares existed at the end of the year.
The a Director shall be vacated if: Company has made no purchases of its own ordinary shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company will seek to renew this i He she ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of law authority at the 2017 AGM.
or is removed pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association or he she becomes prohibited by law from being a Director: Authority to allot ordinary shares ii He she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his her creditors Shareholders authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate generally: nominal amount of 19,711,624 existed at the end of the year.
The Company has not issued any ordinary shares pursuant to this iii He she becomes of unsound mind or a patient for any purpose authority.
The Company will seek to renew this authority at the 2017 of any statute relating to mental health and the Board resolves AGM.
that his her office is vacated: iv He she resigns: During the year ended 31 December 2016, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in v He she fails to attend Board meetings for six consecutive the allotment of 113,153 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary months without leave of absence from the Board and the Board shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of resolves that his her office is vacated: the financial year to the date of this Report.
Details of outstanding vi His her appointment terminates in accordance with the options under the Groups Employee and Executive Schemes are provisions of the Companys Articles: set out in Note 9 on pages 108 to 110 which also contains details of options granted over unissued share capital.
vii He she is dismissed from Executive office: viii He she is convicted of an indictable offence and the Directors Fair, balanced and understandable resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that The Directors have a responsibility for preparing the 2016 Annual he she remains a Director: or Report and Accounts and for making certain confirmations concerning it.
In accordance with C. 1 of the Code, the Board has ix The conduct of the Director is the subject of an investigation reviewed the contents of this years Annual Report and Accounts and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of and it considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as the Company that he she remains a Director.
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys Agreements with employees and significant position and performance, business model and strategy.
More agreements contracts of significance information can be found in the Audit Committee Report on There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors page 65. or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or Cautionary statement otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The cautionary statement can be found on page 35 of the Strategic The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a Report.
change of control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in Content of Directors Report the credit rating of the Company.
The Corporate governance report including the Board biographies, which can be found on pages 48 to 61, the Audit Committee Report Fixed assets on pages 62 to 65, the Nominations Committee Report on pages 66 In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference to 67, and the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 86 are between the book value and the current open market value of the incorporated by reference and form part of this Directors Report.
Groups interests in land and buildings.
The Board has prepared a Strategic Report including the Chief Executives Statement which provides an overview of the CREST development and performance of the Companys business in the The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement year ended 31 December 2016 and its position at the end of the system for stocks and shares.
year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and Group.
The Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Interim Report forms part of the Strategic Report.
Current regulations permit the Company not to send hard copies of its Interim Reports to Shareholders and therefore the Company For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, the required intends to publish its Interim Report only on its website at content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic www.
Report and this Directors Report, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
com I Stock code: SHI For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following locations: Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Financial Statements, Note 13, page 114 2 Publication of unaudited financial Not applicable information 4 Details of long-term incentive Directors Remuneration schemes Report, pages 79 to 80 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Not applicable director 6 Waiver of future emoluments by Not applicable a director 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity Not applicable for cash 8 Item 7 in relation to major Not applicable subsidiary undertakings 9 Parent participation in a placing Not applicable by a listed subsidiary 10 Contracts of significance Corporate governance report, page 60 11 Provision of services by a Not applicable controlling shareholder 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waivers of future Not applicable dividends 14 Agreements with controlling Not applicable shareholders SIG has been mindful of the best practice guidance published by Defra and other bodies in relation to environmental, community and social KPIs when drafting the Strategic Report.
The Board has also considered social, environmental and ethical risks, in line with the best practice recommendations of the Association of British Insurers.
Management, led by the Chief Executive, has responsibility for identifying and managing such risks, which are discussed extensively in this Annual Report and Accounts.
All the information cross-referenced is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Approval of the Directors Report The Directors Report set out on pages 48 to 86 was approved by the Board of Directors on 13 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by Richard Monro.
