SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Nominations Committee report The Committee plays an important role in ensuring the Board has the right balance of experience and skills to support the Groups strategy LESLIE VAN fide WALLE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE As part of the Board succession planning Purpose and aim Responsibilities and process, which was discussed at the The Nominations Committee has an activities during the year Committees December 2015 meeting, important role to play in ensuring that the The Committee reviews the structure, size, a search and selection procedure for Board has the right balance of experience diversity and composition of the Board Independent Non-Executive Directors was and skills to support the Groups strategy.
Its and makes recommendations concerning undertaken in 2016 by the Committee.
principal duty is the nomination ofsuitable the reappointment of any Non-Executive candidates for the approval of the Board to Director at the conclusion of their specified The Committee considered the position of fill executive and non-executive vacancies term of office and in the identification and Mr C. V. Geoghegan, who had completed on the Board.
Members of the Committee nomination of new Directors.
During the his second three year period of office in are not involved inmatters affecting their year, the Committee in recognising the July 2015, and who was appointed to own positions.
impact of the Davies Report ensured that serve for a further term of office expiring at skills, experience, potential and overall the May 2016 Annual General Meeting.
It The Committee keeps under review and balance of the Board, as well as diversity was the Committees view that, noting the evaluates the composition of the Board and including gender, were fully considered in experience and tenure of Mr Geoghegan, its Committees to maintain the appropriate relation to the Board appointments made together with the Companys ongoing balance of skills, knowledge, experience during the year.
The Committee retains implementation of its strategic initiatives and and independence to ensure their continued external search and selection consultants the focus on achieving a strong recovery effectiveness.
The Committee also advises in 2017, it would be in the best interests plans for the Non-Executive Directors, the Board on succession planning for of the Companys Shareholders, subject Executive Directors and the Groups senior Executive Board appointments although the to careful and rigorous review, for Mr management are also kept under review.
Board itself is responsible for succession Geoghegan to offer himself for re-election generally.
All appointments to the Board will at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
In the Meetings and membership continue to be made on merit: however, Committees view, Mr Geoghegan brings During the year theCommittee met on five differences in background, skills, experience considerable management experience occasions.
A quorum is three members, and other qualities as well as gender and and an independent perspective to the the majority of whom shall be independent ethnicity are considered in determining the Boards discussions and is considered to Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee optimum composition of the Board, with the be independent of management and free operates under written Terms of Reference, aim to balance them appropriately.
from relationship or circumstance that could which are consistent with current best affect or appear to affect, the exercise of his practice and are available on the Companys Board succession planning independent judgment, therefore providing website www.
In accordance with best practice and continued valuable support.
Therefore, Mr The Financial Reporting Councils FRC Geoghegan has, subject to his re-election As at 31 December 2016, the Committee discussion paper entitled UK Board by Shareholders at the Annual General comprised the Chairman, the Interim Chief Succession Planning, the Committee Meeting in May 2017, been invited to serve Executive and the four independent Noncontinues to review and monitor its Board for a further term of office expiring at the Executive Directors of the Company.
succession planning process, in particular May 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Chairman of the by rigorously reviewing and taking into Committee Members account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Committee carefully Mr L. Van fide Walle Ms J. E. Ashdown reviews and makes recommendations to the Mr C. V. Geoghegan Mr J. C. Nicholls Board concerning the reappointment of any Ms A. Abt Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of Mr M. Ewell their specified terms of office.
com I Stock code: SHI The Committee also considered the position members as well as the strategic and had risen to 25%.
The Committee will of Ms J. E. Ashdown who would have business objectives of the Group.
continue to consider gender diversity completed her second three-year period when recommending any future Board Once a detailed specification has been of office in July 2017.
Following a rigorous appointments, and final appointments will agreed with the Board, the Committee review the Committee concluded that Ms always be made on merit.
The Committee is would then work with an appropriate Ashdown brings considerable management seeking to increase female representation, external search and selection agency to experience and an independent perspective in particular at senior management level identify candidates of the appropriate to the Boards discussion and is free from across the Group.
calibre and with whom an initial candidate relationship or circumstance that could shortlist could be agreed.
The consultants As part of corporate governance, the affect or appear to affect the exercise of her are required to work to a specification Committee reviews its own performance independent judgment.
Ms Ashdown has, that includes the strong desirability of annually and considers where improvements subject to her re-election by Shareholders at producing a full list of candidates who meet can be made.
The Committee reviewed its the AGM in May 2017, been invited to serve the essential criteria, whilst reflecting the own performance in December 2016 and for a further term of office expiring at the benefits of diversity.
The Board will only the results of this review were reported to May 2018 AGM.
engage such consultants who are signed the Board.
B. Duncan was appointed a Nonup to the voluntary code of conduct on The proposed activities for the Committee Executive Director with effect from 1 January gender diversity on corporate boards.
The in 2017 will be to continue to monitor 2017 and will offer himself for election at policy on board diversity is available on the and assess the Boards composition and the May 2017 Annual General Meeting.
diversity, longer-term succession planning J. C. Nicholls will retire from the Board on 31 Shortlisted candidates would then be invited and potential further recruitment of NonMarch 2017 as a Non-Executive Director to interview with members of the Committee Executive Directors, in conjunction with and Chair of the Audit Committee.
Mr and, if recommended by the Committee, the FRCs discussion paper on UK Board Duncan will succeed Mr Nicholls as Chair of would be invited to meet the entire Board Succession Planning.
The Committees the Audit Committee following Mr Nicholls before any decision is taken relating to the main aim for 2017 will be the successful retirement.
recruitment of a new Chief Executive.
Mr S. R. Mitchell stepped down from During the year under review, in connection the Board as Chief Executive by mutual LESLIE VAN fide WALLE with the appointments of Mr I.
B. Duncan agreement on 11 November 2016.
Mr CHAIRMAN OF THE and Mr N. W. Maddock, the Committee M. Ewell, a Non-Executive Director, was NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE used the services of The Zygos Partnership appointed as Interim Chief Executive from 13 March 2017 who have no other connection with the 11 November 2016 on a full time basis Company.
whilst the Board conducts an external search for a new Chief Executive, which The process described above was followed is currently underway.
It is expected that in respect of the appointments of Mr I.
B. Mr M. Ewell will resume his Non-Executive Duncan as a Non-Executive Director with Director duties upon the recruitment of a effect from 1 January 2017 and Mr N. W. new Chief Executive.
The Committee has Maddock as Chief Financial Officer with produced a detailed specification for a effect from 1 February 2017. new Chief Executive and appointed Korn Following the appointment of a new Ferry to undertake the search for a new Director, the Chairman, in conjunction with Chief Executive.
The process has reached the Company Secretary and the Group the stage of a candidate shortlist and the Human Resources Director, is responsible Committee hopes to be able to recommend for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored a candidate to the Board in the near future.
induction to the Company is given.
Although Mr D. G. Robertson retired from the Board not an exhaustive list, the induction includes as Group Finance Director with effect from one-to-one meetings with key management 31 January 2017 and was succeeded by Mr including HR, Finance, Risk, Investor N. W. Maddock with effect from 1 February Relations and Corporate Development 2017.
Mr Maddock will offer himself for and an overview of the Groups structure election at the May 2017 Annual General and strategy including site visits and an Meeting.
The Committee also carefully reviews and General makes recommendations concerning In general terms, when considering the reappointment of any Non-Executive candidates for appointment as Directors of Director at the conclusion of their specified the Company, the Nominations Committee, term of office.
in conjunction with the Board, drafts a detailed job specification and candidate SIG supports the principles of gender profile.
In drafting this, consideration diversity and, following the appointment would be given to the existing experience, of Ms A. Abt on 12 March 2015, knowledge and background of Board female representation on the Board 67 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10
