SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Audit Committee report The Committee aims to ensure high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, an appropriate control environment, risk management framework and compliance monitoring JONATHAN NICHOLLS CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The cybersecurity review identified a number Dear Shareholder, Purpose and aim of areas for improvement and these will be On behalf of the Board I am pleased to The purpose of the Committee is to a focus for the Board in 2017.
The 2017 present the Audit Committee report for make recommendations on the reporting, programme of reviews will ensure continued 2016. control, risk management and compliance focus on areas of risk to the business to aspects of the Directors and the Groups The Audit Committee the Committee ensure that the control environment remains responsibilities, providing independent has to use judgment when reviewing the effective and robust.
monitoring, guidance and challenge to accounting treatment for the carrying values executive management in these areas.
Although going concern is a matter for of its operations, the disclosure of other the whole Board see page 34, a review items and the recognition and measurement Through this process the Committees aim is made by the Audit Committee of the of supplier rebate income.
is to ensure high standards of corporate and Groups headroom under its covenants and regulatory reporting, an appropriate control As discussed within the Annual Report and undrawn facilities in relation to the Groups environment, risk management framework Accounts, trading was challenging in 2016. financial forecasts and sensitivity analyses.
The Committee As a consequence, the Audit Committee believes that excellence in these areas The Committee has again considered has reviewed the carrying values of its enhances the effectiveness and reduces the the issue of external Auditor rotation and, operations for evidence of impairment.
The risks of the business.
although continuing to keep this under outcome of this review was that the carrying review, currently intends to reconsider the values of Larivire and Poland have been Key responsibilities most appropriate time for the next audit written down.
z The accounting principles, practices and tender process.
Further detail is provided in The Group has continued to invest in policies applied in, and the integrity of, this report.
upgrading its accounting systems with the the Groups accounts.
B. Duncan was appointed a Nonimplementation of Kerridge in the UK and z The adequacy and effectiveness of the Executive Director with effect from Talentia in France.
Although not complete internal control environment.
As announced on at the year end, the Groups management z The effectiveness of whistleblowing 12 December 2016, it is my intention to is continuing to develop both systems to procedures.
retire as a Non-Executive Director and Chair ensure that they provide enhanced control of the Audit Committee on 31 March 2017. z The effectiveness of the Groups and financial information in comparison to It is proposed that Mr Duncan succeed me outsourced Internal Audit function.
the systems that are being replaced.
The as Chair of the Audit Committee, and, with controls for these ERP systems require z The appointment, independence, his knowledge and expertise in finance and further development and this will continue to effectiveness and remuneration of the change management he is a perfect fit for be of focus in 2017.
Groups external Auditor, including the role.
the policy on the award of non-audit The Group has outsourced the Internal services.
The Company has complied during the Audit function to KPMG.
KPMGs Internal financial year ended 31 December 2016 z The supervision of any tender process Control Review undertaken in December with the provisions of The Statutory Audit for the Groups internal and external 2014 and subsequent internal audit reviews Services for Large Companies Market Auditor.
support the view that the Group has an Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive effective system of internal financial control.
z External financial reporting and Tender Processes and Audit Committee Management actions continued to be taken associated announcements.
Responsibilities Order 2014 that are to improve controls and bring efficiencies z The Groups risk management processes applicable to it.
During the year and performance.
KPMG performed reviews in IT performance, z The Groups compliance with the UK JONATHAN NICHOLLS cybersecurity, programme assurance, ERP Corporate Governance Code.
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE back office effectiveness and acquisition due 13 March 2017 diligence to identify opportunities for further The Audit Committees Terms of Reference improvements to the control environment.
are available on the Companys website www.
com I Stock code: SHI As part of Corporate Governance the Committee reviews its own Audit Committee membership performance annually and considers where improvements can be As at 31 December 2016, the Committee comprised the four made.
The Committee reviewed its own performance in December independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
2016 and the results of this review were reported to the Board.
Chairman of the The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent Committee Members meeting of the Board on the key issues covered by the Committee, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or Mr J. C. Nicholls Ms J. E. Ashdown improvement is needed, and makes recommendations on the steps Mr C. V. Geoghegan to be taken.
Ms A. Abt The Board considers that each member of the Committee is Meetings independent within the definition set out in the UK Corporate The Committee meets regularly throughout the year, with four Governance Code the Code.
The combined relevant commercial meetings being held during 2016.
Its agenda is linked to events in and financial knowledge and experience of the Committee members the Companys financial calendar.
satisfies compliance with the Codes provision C. 3.1.
Attendance by individual members of the Committee is disclosed Audit Committee structure in the table on page 53.
The Committee Chairman regularly invites senior company executives to attend meetings of the Committee The Committee operates under Terms of Reference which can be to discuss or present specific items, and in particular the previous found on the Companys website.
They are reviewed annually by the Group Finance Director, Mr. D. G. Robertson, attended all four of Committee, including comparison against the Code, and changes the meetings in 2016.
The external Auditor also attended all four are recommended to the Board for approval.
meetings of the Committee in 2016 and has direct access to the The Committee has in its Terms of Reference the power to engage Committee Chairman.
The external Auditor meets periodically, and outside advisors and to obtain its own independent external advice in between Committee meetings, with members of the Committee at the Companys expense, should it be deemed necessary.
During without the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors 2016 no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, being present.
KPMG LLP, who provides an outsourced Internal found it necessary to obtain such separate advice beyond the Audit function for the Group, attends meetings to present its reports.
advice that is directly provided to the Committee by the external The Committee also meets with KPMG without the Executive Auditor, Deloitte LLP, or from KPMG LLP, who operate the Groups Directors being present, and the Committee Chairman meets outsourced Internal Audit function.
regularly with KPMG outside of the formal meetings.
The Committee addressed the following key agenda items during its four meetings in 2016: 4 March 2016 6 June 2016 3 August 2016 8 December 2016 z z z z Internal Audit update Review of the Internal Audit Review of 2016 interim Review of the internal control report results report z Review of going concern z z z basis of accounting and Review of the Committees Goodwill and intangible Consideration of the risk Viability Statement Terms of Reference assets impairment review management review process z z z z Goodwill and intangible Review of whistleblowing Review of going concern Review and approve the assets impairment review and non-audit services basis of accounting 2017 Internal Audit report policies z z z Consideration of the risk Review of the external Review of audit pre-close z management review process Discussion of the 2015 Auditors interim work and accounting and reporting Annual Report compared to report and year end planning issues z Internal control review best and emerging practice z Goodwill and intangible z Review of 2015 audit z Consideration of 2016 assets impairment process and results, and interim results including discussion discussion of significant goodwill and going concern z accounting matters Review of the updated year z Review Auditor plan for end external audit planning z Review of the 2015 external interim review report Auditor report z z Assessment of performance Agreement of 2016 audit z Review of the 2015 of external Auditor fee and review of Auditor Annual Report including independence fair, balanced and z understandable and Discussions regarding going preliminary results concern and the Viability announcement Statement z Review of performance of Committee and identification of training requirements z Corporate Governance update by external Auditor 63 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Audit Committee report CONTINUED there is sufficient headroom forecast against the Groups financial Allocation of time covenants throughout the viability period.
Our assessment has The chart below gives an indication of the proportion of time spent placed additional focus on the covenant test points of 30 June by the Committee on each of its key areas of responsibility.
with particular reference to the working capital seasonality of the business which would ordinarily see leverage rise at the half year and 31 December.
The Committee has also reviewed the Groups potential mitigating actions to reduce leverage in the short term 10% 10% and consider these to be achievable and commercially viable.
The Committee is satisfied that the assumptions taken are appropriate.
20% Items marked as such are areas where judgment is involved in arriving at the accounting conclusion.
Oversight of Internal Audit 50% 10% The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to senior management and the Board on the adequacy and effectiveness of SIGs risk management framework.
Internal Audit forms an independent and objective assessment as to whether risks have been adequately identified, adequate internal controls GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL AUDIT are in place to manage those risks, and those controls are working FINANCIAL INTERNAL AUDIT effectively.
The results of all assignments have been reported to REPORTING the Audit Committee during the year.
Areas of weakness that were RISK MANAGEMENT identified during the year prompted a detailed action plan and a follow-up audit check to establish that actions had been completed.
Financial reporting and significant No failings or weaknesses were identified during the year which had accounting matters a material effect on the Companys financial performance.
The Committee considered the following financial reporting and key The Audit Committee notes that the Company operates a Control accounting issues with regard to the financial statements: Self Assessment CSA internal control process to support the internal audit process.
This process is summarised in the Corporate Recognition and measurement of supplier Governance Report on pages 55 and 56. rebate income The Committee examined the procedures and controls in place to KPMG LLP was appointed on 1 January 2014 in place of EY LLP ensure that the reporting, reviewing and accounting for supplier to provide the outsourced Internal Audit function.
The appointment rebate income is properly managed and that supplier rebates are followed a full review process which involved tenders being made recognised appropriately in the Group financial statements.
by five accountancy firms leading to a shortlist of three firms from which a candidate was recommended.
The process was carried Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets out by the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit The carrying value of goodwill is systematically reviewed at each Committee who then recommended KPMG to the Audit Committee mid-year point and at year end.
A consistent methodology is applied as the selected internal audit provider.
Their appointment was then to the individual cash generating units, taking account of market recommended by the Audit Committee to the Board, and was outlook, risk-adjusted discounted future cash flows, sensitivities, approved by the Board.
and other factors which may have a bearing on impairment considerations.
Oversight of external Auditor The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree Disclosure of Other items of independence and objectivity on the part of the Groups external The Committee gave careful consideration to the judgments made in Auditor.
The external Auditor reports to the Committee on the the separate disclosure of Other items.
In particular, the Committee actions taken to comply with both professional and regulatory sought to ensure that the treatment followed consistent principles requirements and with best practice designed to ensure its and that reporting in the Group financial statements is suitably clear independence.
The Group has an agreed policy with regard to the provision of audit Recognition and measurement of trade and non-audit services by the external Auditor, which was operated receivables throughout 2016.
The policy is based on the principles that they Methodologies and judgments applied in establishing provisions for should undertake non-audit services only where they are the most trade receivables were examined to ensure consistent application appropriate and cost-effective provider of the service, and where the and appropriateness to the trading position of the Group.
provision of non-audit services does not impair, or is not perceived to impair, the external Auditors independence and objectivity.
Going concern and longer term viability It categorises such services as Auditor-permitted services, The Group is subject to financial covenants related to its committed Auditor-excluded services and Auditor-authorised services.
bank facilities and private placement notes as set out on page The policy, which can be viewed on the Companys website 34.
The Group had net debt of 259.9m at 31 December www.
com, defines the types of services falling under 2016 and reported a leverage of 2.1x for the period against each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal the covenant maximum of 3.0x.
The Committee reviewed the approvals required prior to the commencement of any AuditorGroups cash flow, net debt and leverage forecast and note that authorised services.
com I Stock code: SHI The external Auditor cannot be engaged to perform any assignment will advise Shareholders of its audit tender plans in the 2017 report.
where the output is then subject to their review as external Auditor.
Therefore, the Committee recommends, and the Board agrees, that The Committee regularly reviews an analysis of all services provided a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of by the external Auditor.
The policy and the external Auditors fees the Company for a further year will be proposed at the forthcoming are reviewed and set annually by the Committee and are approved Annual General Meeting.
Fair, balanced and understandable The total fees payable by the Group to its external Auditor for The Committee has reviewed the contents of this years Annual non-audit services in 2016 was 0.1m, primarily the Interim Report and Accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, the Review 2015: 0.1m.
The total fees payable to them for audit Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and services in respect of the same period was 1.5m 2015: 1.4m.
understandable and provides the necessary information to enable A full breakdown of Auditor fees are disclosed in Note 4 to the Shareholders to assess the position and performance, strategy and Consolidated Financial Statements on page 104. business model of the Company.
The external Auditor reports to the Committee each year on In reaching this conclusion the Committee has considered the the actions taken to comply with professional and regulatory following: requirements and best practice designed to ensure its independence, including the rotation of key members of the external z The preparation of the Annual Report is a collaborative process audit team.
Deloitte LLP has formally confirmed its independence between Finance, Legal, Human Resources, Investor Relations tothe Board in respect of the period covered by these financial and Communications functions within SIG, ensuring the statements.
appropriate professional input to each section.
External guidance and advice is sought where appropriate.
In June 2016, the Committee undertook its annual review of z the effectiveness of the external Auditor and considered the The coordination and project management is undertaken by a reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
A questionnaire was sent to the central team to ensure consistency and completeness of the Finance Directors of each of the Groups operating companies, document.
which provided the Committee with an overall view across the z An extensive review process is undertaken, both internally and Group.
From this questionnaire and further discussions, the through the use of external advisors.
Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP continues to provide an z A final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee members prior effective audit service.
to consideration by the Board.
Audit tender As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has During the year, the Committee considered the Groups position concluded that it has acted in accordance with its Terms of on its Auditor services, taking into account the Code, together Reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the with the EU Audit Directive and Regulation and the Statutory Audit external Auditor.
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee On behalf of the Board Responsibilities Order 2014.
JONATHAN NICHOLLS Having previously acted as Auditor to parts of the Group since CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 2003, Deloitte was invited to tender for the entire Group audit in 13 March 2017 2005 and this resulted in their appointment as the Groups external Auditor.
As noted previously, the Committee continues to review the performance of the external Auditor and has been satisfied with the independence, objectivity, expertise, resources and general effectiveness of Deloitte LLP, and that the Group is subjected to a rigorous audit process.
The Committee does not consider it necessary to conduct a tender process for the appointment of the Companys Auditor at this time, although the Committee will continue to keep this under review.
The current lead audit partner took over the audit for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Committee reported its view last year that it was potentially more effective to align the tender of the external Auditor with the rotation of the current lead audit partner, which is due in 2018, by making use of the transition arrangements outlined by the Financial Reporting Council in relation to the Code and retaining the Companys existing audit firm until conclusion of the term of its current lead partner.
The Committee has since reconsidered the position.
Given the recent appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer, coupled with the appointment of Mr Duncan, as the new Audit Committee Chair effective from 31 March 2017, the Committee believes that it is appropriate to delay the audit tender until after the 2018 audit, and 65 25165.04-AR2016 27 March 2017 12:13 PM Proof 10
