Corporate governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Chairmans overview The UK Corporate Governance Code Code provides the standard for corporate governance in the UK.
The Financial Conduct Authority On behalf of the Board it gives me great pleasure to requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied introduce this years corporate governance report.
with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
I would like to take this opportunity to provide you with some direct insight into the Boards view of The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions Corporate Governance and the changes to our and applied the main principles of the Code for the whole of the year ended Board composition through the year.
3.1 which is explained on page 47.
This section of the Annual Report along with the Directors remuneration As a Board, we are the stewards of the Company.
It is our responsibility report on pages 49 to 63, the Directors report and other statutory to ensure that the Companys strategy is aligned to the interests of disclosures on pages 64 to 69 provide details of how the Company has our investors and takes account of the interests of all the Companys applied the main principles of corporate governance, in particular those stakeholders.
As individuals, we believe that effective corporate laid down in the Code.
The Code can be accessed at www.
uk governance is based on honesty, integrity and transparency and can only be fully realised within an environment of open, robust and effective Leadership debate.
This is the Board culture we foster at Sky and it is my personal Role of the Board responsibility as Chairman to ensure that we continue to live this culture The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and and promote it within our business.
performance of the Company and provides leadership within a framework At the conclusion of last years AGM, David DeVoe, Danny Rimer and Arthur of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be appropriately Siskind stepped down from the Board and John Nallen was appointed as a assessed and managed.
The Board sets the strategic direction, ensuring Non-Executive Director.
As a result of these changes, the number of Board that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its members reduced from 14 to 12.
It has been the desire of the Board for objectives and deliver sustainable performance.
its size to be reduced when a suitable opportunity arose.
After taking The Board takes a long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible to a into consideration the existing mix of skills and experience on the Board, wide range of stakeholders, whilst pursuing its objectives in a manner the Board felt that the time was right to reduce its size.
consistent with its statutory duties, for the benefit of the Companys Furthermore, I took over as Chairman in April 2016, replacing Nick Ferguson members as a whole.
who had served as Chairman since 2012 and a Non-Executive Director since The Directors of the Board are selected on the criteria of proven skill and June 2004.
At the same time Martin Gilbert assumed the role of Deputy ability in their particular field of endeavour and a diversity of outlook and Chairman and Andy Sukawaty was appointed as the Senior Independent experience which directly benefits the operation of the Board as the Director.
An explanation of the appointment process is detailed on page 47. custodian of the business.
A full biography of each Board member is This year, in line with corporate governance best practice, an external Board provided on pages 36 and 37. evaluation was undertaken by Alice Perkins of JCA Group.
The feedback from the evaluation confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees Roles and responsibilities continue to operate effectively and that each Director continues to make The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are separate an effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to their role.
and have been so since the Companys shares were admitted to listing The resulting development themes that arose from the evaluation are in 1994.
The roles and expectations of each Director are clearly defined discussed on pages 41 to 42. and recorded within their letters of appointment or service contracts.
The Board has established arrangements to evaluate whether the The roles and responsibilities of the Board members are explained below.
information in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Chairman Further detail of these arrangements can be found on page 44.
As a result James Murdoch is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its of this, the Board considers the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The Chairman balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary is responsible for creating an environment for open, robust and effective for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, debate.
This includes ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that the business model and strategy.
Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
During the year we have continued our work in promoting greater and more effective engagement with our shareholders.
The Executive Directors The Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO meet our investors and analysts and discuss a wide range of topics.
Jeremy Darroch is responsible and accountable to the Board for the Martin Gilbert and Andy Sukawaty have engaged with shareholders on management and operation of the Company, advancing long-term corporate governance issues and Tracy Clarke, Chair of the Remuneration shareholder value, supported by the management team.
He is also Committee, has also engaged on remuneration issues.
We will continue to involved in the management of the social and environmental engage with our shareholders over the course of the coming financial year.
Deputy Chairman James Murdoch Martin Gilbert deputises for the Chairman as appropriate, provides a Chairman sounding board to Non-Executive Directors and is an additional point of contact for shareholders.
Sky plc 38 Governance Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID Board and Committee framework Andy Sukawaty is responsible for providing support to the Chairman and provides an independent point of contact for shareholders.
Board Non-Executive Directors Chase Carey, Tracy Clarke, Martin Gilbert, Adine Grate, Dave Lewis, John Nallen, Matthieu Pigasse and Andy Sukawaty, collectively, are responsible for constructively challenging the Executive Directors and overseeing the delivery of the Companys strategy within the risk and control framework.
Audit Remuneration Committee Committee Company Secretary Chris Taylor is responsible for the following in respect of effective Board operation: To ensure good information flows within the Board and its Committees, Bigger Picture Corporate between senior management and Non-Executive Directors: Committee Governance & Nominations To facilitate Director induction and assisting with professional Committee development: To advise the Board through the Chairman of all corporate governance obligations and developments in best practice: and The Audit Committee has responsibility for oversight of corporate To be responsible for communicating with shareholders as appropriate.
reporting, risk management and the Companys relationship with its All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company auditor.
The Audit Committee conducts a robust assessment of the Secretary who advises on corporate governance matters, Board procedures Groups principal risks and their mitigation on behalf of the Board, and and other relevant rules and regulations.
In addition, Directors have the reviews the effectiveness of internal controls.
Significant risks to the right to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
business are kept under review and appropriate material controls are sanctioned and employed as appropriate.
The Companys principal risks Environment supportive of challenge and examples of how we mitigate those risks are detailed on pages 28 The effective operation of the Board is dependent on the inherent to 31.
The Audit Committee also oversees the review of whether the checks and balances within the various Board roles.
As highly qualified Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
For further details, and successful individuals in their respective fields of endeavour, all the Audit Committee Report can be found on pages 43 to 46.
Non-Executive Directors influence, debate and contribute to decisions relating to the strategy of the Company, its performance and its impact The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration on stakeholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are evaluated and judged policy for the Board and ensures that no Director is involved in decisions on the quality and content of their contributions to Board debate and affecting their own remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report are expected to offer alternative viewpoints and challenge perceptions can be found on pages 49 to 63. and decisions as appropriate.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is responsible Board agenda for oversight of the structure, size, composition and succession planning In addition to its reserved and standing matters, during the year of the Board and its Committees and overall compliance with corporate the Board also considered and received a number of updates and governance standards.
The Report of the Corporate Governance presentations, giving Directors a further opportunity to explore & Nominations Committee can be found on pages 46 and 47. and analyse topics such as: The Bigger Picture Committee has responsibility for oversight of the social, The Groups operations and five-year financial plans: environmental and ethical impacts of the Companys activities.
The report of the Bigger Picture Committee can be found on page 48.
The general market and economic outlook: The Executive Committee is responsible for approving routine business The competitive landscape, opportunities and market trends: such as the approval of share option exercises and specific business Growth of existing business activities: and delegated by the Board.
Existing and new products, services and technological developments.
The minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Board To maintain an appropriate level of control over the day-to-day affairs Directors on a timely basis.
At each Board meeting the Chairman of each of the Company, the Board has identified certain matters that only it can Committee provides the Board with a brief update of the work currently approve, and these matters are contained within the Companys Schedule being carried out by the Committee they chair.
Other sub-committees of Matters Reserved to the Board which can be found at sky.
com corporate and steering groups provide additional resource and support to the Board Committees or are formed for specific tasks.
Board delegation A Committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees, to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
The Committee notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Governance & Nominations, comprises the Group CEO, Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Bigger Picture and Executive Committees.
Each Committees terms Financial Officer Group COO & CFO and other senior executives of reference can be found on the Companys corporate website from within the Group.
com corporate about-sky corporate-governance Annual Report 2016 39 Corporate governance report continued Board and Committee attendance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below.
The table shows the number of meetings each Director was eligible to attend.
Corporate Governance & Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Bigger Picture Number of meetings held in year 6 7 5 3 2 Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch, Group CEO 6 6 Andrew Griffith, Group COO & CFO 6 6 Non-Executive Directors Chase Carey 5 6 Tracy Clarke 5 6 5 5 2 2 1,5 David DeVoe 1 2 2 Nick Ferguson 2 2 4 4 1 1 Martin Gilbert 6 6 7 7 3 3 Adine Grate 6 6 7 7 5 5 4 Dave Lewis 5 6 6 7 2 3 2 2 5 James Murdoch 5 6 2 2 2 2 3 John Nallen 4 4 5 Matthieu Pigasse 6 6 5 7 1 Danny Rimer 2 2 1 Arthur Siskind 2 2 1 1 5 Andy Sukawaty 5 6 5 5 1 David DeVoe, Arthur Siskind and Danny Rimer retired from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 4 November 2015.
2 Nick Ferguson retired from the Board and stepped down as Chair of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 30 April 2016.
3 John Nallen joined the Board on 4 November 2015 immediately following the AGM.
4 Dave Lewis stepped down as a Member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee on 9 June 2016.
5 Directors are encouraged to attend Board and respective Board and Committee meetings but in certain circumstances meetings are called at short notice and due to prior business commitments and time differences Directors may be unable to attend.
In these circumstances Directors receive relevant papers and are updated on developments by either the Chairman or Group CEO.
6 In addition to the meetings set out in the table above, the Independent Non-Executive Directors held a meeting to discuss Chairman succession during the year.
Effectiveness Board Composition Board composition and independence Chairman 1 The Board currently comprises 11 Directors, made up of two Executive Executive Director 2 Directors and nine Non-Executive Directors.
A majority of six of the Board Independent Non-Executive Director 6 of Directors are determined to be independent by the Board in accordance Other Non-Executive Directors 2 with provision B.
On appointment the Chairman did not meet the independence criteria set out in provision B.
Further details are set out on page 47.
Biographies of each of the Directors are set out on pages 36 and 37.
Chase Carey, James Murdoch and John Nallen represent the Companys largest shareholder, 21st Century Fox, and as such are not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
Each of these Appointments to the Board, diversity and succession planning Directors has extensive media and pay TV experience and make a The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee keeps the Boards significant contribution to Board discussion.
balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the length of service of The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of experience individuals under constant review.
In respect of succession planning and and expertise to the Groups affairs, and carry significant weight in supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an established procedure the Boards decisions.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are for the appointment of new Directors.
In brief, the Committee identifies the encouraged to challenge management and help develop proposals on set of skills and experience required and, with the assistance of external strategy.
Time is regularly put aside at Board meetings to discuss the search agencies, selects individuals to take Board positions on review of strategic direction of the Company.
their individual merits, regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability.
Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each Board member receives Further information on the work of the Committee during the year can be and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that may affect found on pages 46 and 47. independence according to best practice statements contained within the Code.
The responses to the questionnaire assist the Board in ascertaining whether a Director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Sky plc 40 Governance Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and letters of Time commitment appointment of the Non-Executive Directors may be inspected at the All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any required on induction and are expected to devote sufficient time weekday except Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays and at the for the effective discharge of their functions.
The Company provides place of the Annual General Meeting AGM for 15 minutes prior to Non-Executive Directors with appropriate support and facilities for the meeting until the conclusion of the AGM.
consideration of the Companys strategy and performance and a dialogue with the Chairman is strongly encouraged so that any issues The Board has published a statement of its intention to increase female regarding conflicting commitments and time pressures can be representation on the Board which can be found on the Companys addressed appropriately.
As required by company legislation, a table on page 65 illustrates gender diversity amongst the Board.
Induction and training All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their individual Diversity ratio of Directors appointed in past four years requirements.
The induction process involves meeting with all of the Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business performance.
During the year, Directors have received presentations Male 4 Female 2 from a number of areas of the business including Customer Group, Content, Business Development, Technology and Strategic Planning Length of time served on the Board Group.
The Chairman meets with the Directors throughout the year to review their developmental needs.
An example of a tailored induction programme is detailed below: 0-5 years 8 5 years 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Meetings with Customer Product Accompanied Industry Background experience Senior Executives, contact demonstrations a Sky engineer Sky News and centre visit on customer Industry related 7 Sky Studio visits visits International 9 Finance investment 8 In addition to this, various presentations from prior Board meetings will Technology Innovation 5 be made available to the Director in order to improve their understanding Regulatory 5 of the Group and the competitive and regulatory landscape in which it Executive 9 operates.
Consideration is given to Committee appointments and where relevant, tailored training may be required.
Note: T his covers the experience of the Non-Executive Directors who may fall into one or more of the above categories.
Board evaluation In line with corporate governance best practice, an external Board Directors reappointment evaluation was undertaken during the year.
The process was facilitated In accordance with Code provision B.
7.1. all continuing Executive and by Alice Perkins who works for the coaching division of JCA Group.
Non-Executive Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment The Company has no other relationships with JCA Group.
at the Companys 2016 AGM, with the exception of Dave Lewis who has Following discussions with the Chairman, CEO and the Company Secretary, decided not to seek reappointment this year and will step down from the JCA Group prepared discussion guidelines which formed the basis for Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
The Board has started the process one-to-one interviews with all Board members and the Company Secretary.
to appoint a new Independent Non-Executive Director to ensure that The areas covered by the discussion guidelines included: the Board continues to be comprised of a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Organisation of the Board and its composition Committee organisation and composition External directorships Any external appointments for the Executive Directors are considered Strategy by the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
Executive Peer reviews Directors are not allowed to take on the Chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company, but are allowed to take up one external Non-Executive FTSE 100 Board involvement appointment and retain any payments in respect of such appointments.
Board relations with key stakeholders Jeremy Darroch was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director Risk, compliance and financial monitoring of Burberry Group plc on 5 February 2014, and is a member of the Audit, Overall Board effectiveness Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Andrew Griffith was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc on 12 March 2014.
Andrew serves as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Details of pay in respect of these appointments can be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 54.
Annual Report 2016 41 Corporate governance report continued The findings were presented to the Board for discussion in April 2016.
Directors and Officers Insurance and Indemnity The feedback confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and collectively continue to operate effectively and that each Director continues to accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys make an effective contribution and demonstrates a strong commitment affairs.
The Company maintains a Directors and Officers liability insurance to the role.
Additionally, the Companys Articles of Association allow the Company to indemnify the Directors and deeds of indemnity have been The Board discussed the key findings and agreed the following action issued to all Directors of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
points: The composition of the Board and its Committees would be kept Relations with shareholders under review: Shareholder communications Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business are Board information flows would be reviewed to ensure that all Directors available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
are kept up to date with developments in between meetings: The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes downloading of The way in which Board Committees keep the rest of the Board informed all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder communication.
of their work would be reviewed: and The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the The Board and Committee meeting schedule would be reviewed.
Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested The performance of each Director was evaluated as part of the evaluation hard copy documentation.
The shareholder information section on page process, based on self-analysis and input from the other Directors.
It is 138 contains further details on electronic shareholder communications the Boards intention to continue to review its performance and that of together with more general information of interest to shareholders which its Committees and individual Directors on an annual basis.
In respect of is also included on the Companys corporate website sky.
com corporate the evaluation process for the 2016 17 financial year, it is likely an internal evaluation will be undertaken.
Shareholder engagement The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with Information provided to the Directors shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with within the Board and its Committees and between senior management institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place each and Non-Executive Directors.
For each Board and Committee meeting, year and the Group CEO and Group COO & CFO have attended meetings Directors are provided with a tailored Board pack at least one week prior with investors, as appropriate.
The Company also makes presentations to the meeting.
To improve the delivery and security of Board papers, the to analysts and investors around the time of the half-year and full-year Company has adopted an electronic system allowing the Board to easily results announcement: conference calls are held with analysts and access information, irrespective of geographic location.
Directors regularly investors following the release of the first quarter and third quarter trading receive additional information from the Company between Board meetings, statements and presentations are made during the year to many existing including a daily press summary and a monthly Group performance update.
or potential shareholders at investor conferences.
The Company holds Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided with meetings with its major shareholders to discuss corporate governance all the papers and information relating to that meeting and were able and remuneration matters from time to time.
to discuss issues arising directly with the Chairman and Group CEO.
The AGM Conflicts of interest The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private Under UK Company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before investors and sets aside time at the meeting for shareholders to ask taking up any position with another company that conflicts, or may questions.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companys Articles Companys activities for the previous year.
All resolutions at the 2015 of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise AGM were voted by way of a poll.
This follows best practice and allows situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not the Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders in breach of his duty under company law.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions All existing external appointments for each Director have been authorised were voted separately and the final voting results, which included all votes by the Board and each authorisation is set out in a Conflicts Register.
cast for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior Directors are required to notify the Board of potential conflicts so that to the meeting, were released to the London Stock Exchange as soon as they can be considered, and if appropriate, authorised by the Board.
The announcement was also made available In addition, the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee conducts on the Companys corporate website.
As in previous years, the proxy form an annual review of Directors conflicts and reports its findings to the and the announcement of the voting results made it clear that a vote Board.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee reviewed withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation the Boards conflicts during the financial year and concluded that conflicts of the proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation is operating effectively.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Sky plc 42 Governance Attendance at Committee meetings Report of the Audit Committee John Nallen has a standing invitation to attend meetings.
However, Chairmans overview his attendance at these meetings is as an observer and in a non-voting capacity.
The Group COO & CFO, other business and finance executives During the year the Audit Committee has continued and representatives from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and the internal to play a key oversight role on behalf of the Board.
audit department attend meetings at the request of the Committee.
The Committees principal activities have focused on The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
the financial performance of the Company, internal audit, external audit, risk management, compliance Audit Committee agenda and governance.
Focus for the Committee this year has included the following items: The Committee has also monitored the Companys approach to risk Review and recommendation to the Board of the interim and full-year management and the independence and effectiveness of the external financial statements, including whether the Annual Report is fair, auditors, and received a number of presentations from management balanced and understandable relating to data governance, security, internal audit, treasury, taxation, Review and approval of the first and third quarter trading statements and health and safety.
Quarterly updates from the Group COO & CFO on business performance We have considered the processes underpinning the production and across the Group approval of this years Annual Report to enable the Board to confirm that Audit plans and findings of external and internal audits the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The review and recommendation to the Board of the dividend policy Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
and proposed payments A description of how we approached this can be found in this report.
Liquidity and going concern review The Committee assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year Annual reporting due diligence procedures and corporate governance period, applying downside sensitivity to our business as usual plans updates including the new requirement for a viability statement which takes account of the principal risks identified.
Further detail on how the Committee approached this is detailed in this report.
Assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process and scope of audit There were seven meetings during the year and after each Committee meeting the Committee Chairman provided an oral update to the Board Auditor independence and the policy on the provision of non-audit on the key issues discussed during our meetings.
The Committee also services by the external auditor had a meeting with the Companys external auditors without Quarterly review of non-audit services and fees management present.
Quarterly reports from the treasury function on the funding, liquidity, In June 2016, Martin Gilbert stepped down as Chairman of the Committee going concern and operational capabilities of the Group and compliance and I would like to thank him for his stewardship of the Committee during with treasury policies his Chairmanship.
Quarterly updates on planned internal audit work and on the status You can find additional information of how we have carried out our role of Senior Accounting Officer SAO certification work to ensure and responsibilities within the remainder of this report.
SAO compliance Adine Grate Quarterly reports of all transactions with a related party during Committee Chairman the period Review of transactions which fall within the Listing Rule 11.1.
5R definition Committee composition of Related Party Transaction and all transactions with a related party in Adine Grate Chairman excess of 10 million and where required recommendation to the Board Martin Gilbert Dave Lewis Review and oversight of the Group risk register, risk methodology and risk Matthieu Pigasse management systems and processes The Committee members have considerable financial and business Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit experience and the Board considers that the membership as a whole function and controls has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge Taxation, security, fraud, health and safety and data protection matters.
In addition, the Board has determined that each The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys member of the Committee has sufficient accounting or related corporate website.
financial management expertise in line with the Code.
Annual Report 2016 43 Corporate governance report continued Significant accounting issues There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the When considering the annual financial statements, the Committee annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved by reviewed the significant accounting issues and the Groups critical the Board.
Performance is monitored against budget through weekly and accounting policies as set out on pages 86 to 87 with particular focus monthly reporting cycles.
During the financial year under review monthly on the following: reports on performance were provided to the Board and the Group reports to shareholders each quarter.
Retail subscription revenue: The majority of the Groups revenues derive from retail subscription In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group Finance team is packages, including hardware, supplied to customers.
The Group applies responsible for preparing the Group financial statements and there judgement in determining the accounting allocation of payments received are well established controls over the financial reporting process.
These are from customers to different elements of the bundled package, taking also documented in line with the requirements of the SAO legislation and into consideration the timing and relative value attributed to each element.
the controls are reviewed and signed off to confirm their continuous During the year, the Committee received a performance report from the operation by the control owners twice a year and are independently tested Group COO & CFO at each Committee meeting that included a review by the internal audit team.
The results of the SAO testing are reported to of revenues recognised in the period.
the Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Committee considered managements policy and considered the views Changes in internal controls of the external auditor and is satisfied that the policies have been applied No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting has consistently and appropriately.
occurred during the year ended 30 June 2016 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over General entertainment programming inventory: financial reporting.
The Group acquired Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia The Committee reviewed the policy for the recognition of content costs during the previous financial year which introduced additional complexity and challenged management on the appropriateness of the policy, and took to financial reporting.
Since the operating model and business operations into account the views of the external auditor that the policy is appropriate of the acquired entities are similar to those of the existing Group, the and has been applied consistently.
The method for recognising general controls over financial reporting remained materially consistent.
entertainment programming expense requires estimation and judgement to ensure that the expense profile is consistent with the expected value Risk registers of the content to the Group.
There are risk registers which identify the risks faced by the Group and these are consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
The risk register The Committee is satisfied that the policies have been applied consistently, framework is based on methodology to identify the risk based on impact are appropriate and are aligned to industry practice.
The risk is assessed, quantified and measured which enables Capitalisation of intangible and tangible non-current assets: discussions on risk appetite.
The registers detail the controls that manage The Committee considered the Groups policies and sought assurances the risks and where necessary, the action plans to mitigate the risk from management that the Groups project accounting controls are exposure.
operating as intended and that spend capitalised as property, plant The business develops the action plans and the internal audit team and equipment and intangible assets meets the relevant accounting monitors their implementation.
The internal audit team provides objective requirements.
The Committee also considered the report from the assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal external auditor.
control and risk management to the Groups operating management.
The Committee is satisfied that the Group has followed appropriate The Committee formally reviews the Group Risk Register twice a year and accounting standards regarding the capitalisation of project expenditure.
carries out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties Internal control and risk management facing the Group and has done so during the year.
The Groups principal The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 28 to 31.
There is, in addition systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their to the twice yearly review, an ongoing monitoring process, which is operated effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage, and where possible by the Group Risk team and supported by senior management across the eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide Group, to identify and report to the Audit Committee on significant reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or changes or new risks.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Fair, balanced and understandable assessment the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the revised The Financial Reporting Committee FRC, an internal committee, has guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council in responsibility for the production of the annual report and the associated September 2014.
During the period under review, the Committee discussed review process.
Guidance and comprehensive due diligence procedures a number of areas where actions had been identified to further improve were issued to reviewers by the FRC to help them assess whether the the control environment, however no material failings or weaknesses document was fair, balanced and understandable and complied with the were identified.
The FRC maintained oversight of the review The Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the process and submitted certification to the Committee to enable it to operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management be in a position to recommend to the Board that the required statement during the year and this review has been carried out for the year ended could be made.
30 June 2016 and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
This review relates to the Company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures.
The Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Groups Director: Audit, Risk Management and Compliance and the external auditor.
Sky plc 44 Governance Viability statement The Committee is satisfied that all of Deloittes non-audit work continues A new obligation introduced in 2014 requires the Directors to confirm to be of a permitted nature, meaning that Deloitte is independent within whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the the meaning of UK regulatory and professional requirements and that Group will be able to continue to operate and meet their liabilities as they appropriate safeguards are in place to assure Deloittes continued fall due over a longer-term period.
The disclosure must set out the basis independence.
In this regard, the Committee also closely monitors the for Directors conclusions and explain why the period chosen is appropriate.
developing regulatory regime relating to the use of auditors for non-audit work and is satisfied that the Company has complied and continues to The Committee sought managements input to its assessment of the comply with the regulations in force.
viability of the Company and the Group.
The assessment, which was based on the Groups operating, capital and funding plans, also included Audit and non-audit services provided during the year were approved by consideration of the principal risks which could impact the performance the Committee.
An analysis of auditor remuneration is disclosed in note 7 of the Group and its liquidity and capital projections over the period.
to the consolidated financial statements.
The Committee was satisfied that the viability statement be provided Audit and non-audit services and agreed that three years was a suitable period of review.
The Viability The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor of audit Statement is detailed on page 31. and non-audit services, which categorises such services between: Disclosure control and procedures Those services which the auditor is not permitted to provide: The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems that Those services which are acceptable for the auditor to provide and are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed as part the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Committee: and of the Companys UK listing obligations is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Group CEO and Group COO & CFO, as Those services for which the specific approval of the Committee is appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
required before the auditor is permitted to provide the service.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and Auditor independence sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval During the year ended 30 June 2016, the Committee reviewed audit mechanisms required to be completed prior to any engagement.
independence and scope of non-audit services and independence safeguards with Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
An analysis of all services provided by the external auditor is reviewed by the Committee on a quarterly basis.
As part of the review, the Audit Committee has received and reviewed confirmation in writing that, in Deloittes professional judgement, Deloitte During the year, the following examples were deemed to be pre-approved is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and professional in accordance with the policy: requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and Procedures in relation to bond issuance audit staff is not impaired.
Assurance of certain KPIs for the Bigger Picture Review The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity and independence of Deloitte was not in any way impaired by either the nature Effectiveness of external audit process of the non-audit related services undertaken during the year, the level of During the year, the effectiveness of the audit process and managements non-audit fees charged, or any other facts or circumstances.
role within that process was assessed by the Committee, Group Finance team and other key internal stakeholders in the form of a questionnaire.
Prior to the Groups acquisitions of Sky Italia and Sky Deutschland, The areas under review were: Deloitte member firms in Italy and Germany had substantial consulting engagements with those businesses.
A transition plan was approved by Quality, resources and scope of planning of the audit the Committee and fully implemented in order to restructure and cease Objectivity, independence and transparency of the audit any  aspects of those engagements in accordance Identification of key accounting judgements, significant audit and with relevant auditor independence rules.
accounting issues During the current year, the Group has implemented an orderly ramp-down Level of technical knowledge and professional scepticism of the majority of Deloittes non-audit work.
Deloitte has been involved in certain strategic customer and operating systems projects since their Understanding Sky as a business, its values and culture and challenges inception and has specialist knowledge which it would be time consuming it faces and costly to build up with another advisor.
The Committee therefore The quality of planning and supervision of the Group audit approved a certain level of permitted consulting advisory services with respect to these strategic projects for the current year and has approved Quality of reporting and communications to the Audit Committee the continuation of this work at a further reduced level in the year ending The responses to the assessment were discussed by the Committee 30 June 2017.
Non-audit fees have declined very significantly over each and it was confirmed that Deloitte are performing as expected.
Deloitte of 2014 15 pro-forma basis spend of 19.5 million and 2015 16 7.8 million, continue to demonstrate strengths in the majority of these areas.
and are expected to decline in 2016 17 4.0 million and to fall below the There were no significant findings from the assessment and the review level of the audit fee by 2017 18. confirmed that Deloitte continue to carry out an effective and robust external audit, including the supervision of the enlarged Group audit.
The Committee also continues to be satisfied with the quality of challenge and scepticism of the external auditor.
Annual Report 2016 45 Corporate governance report continued The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that shareholder Corporate Governance approval be sought to reappoint Deloitte as the external auditor and has also recommended that Deloitte be appointed auditor for the & Nominations Committee 2016 17 financial year.
Chairmans overview Audit firm and partner rotation We have had an active year.
There have been a The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible number of Board changes which have resulted in the for the engagement every five years.
The prior year audit partner rotated size of the Board being reduced and the appointment off the engagement following the conclusion of the 2014 15 audit and of a new Chairman, following Nick Fergusons his successor is in place for the first time in 2015 16.
In turn, the current retirement in April 2016.
The appointment process audit partner will be required to rotate after the 2019 20 audit.
is explained in this report.
The regulatory regime relating to mandatory audit tendering has This years Board Evaluation was undertaken by JCA Group, an external significantly changed in the UK and Europe.
The Committee is closely company.
The process was facilitated by Alice Perkins which involved her monitoring these developments and taking into account that Deloitte meeting with all Board members, the Company Secretary and members has been the external auditor of the Company since June 2002, it expects of the Senior Executive Management Team, through a series of one-to-one to conduct an audit tender in advance of June 2020, which itself is in interviews.
The results of the evaluation were very encouraging.
advance of 2023 by which the transitional rules in UK and EU regulation The evaluation found that the Board and its Committees are operating would require the Company to have performed a tender.
The Committee effectively and that the Directors are making an effective contribution.
has reviewed the timing of a future tender and feels that it is not currently A number of action points were agreed which are generally aimed in shareholders interests, given the recent integration of Sky Deutschland at building on and improving existing processes.
The Committee will continue to review at least annually the appropriate timing of a future tender.
The Board as a whole welcomes the opportunity to adapt to innovation and change and is actively progressing initiatives such as addressing The Company and the Group confirms its compliance with the provisions gender balance on the Board, sourcing the right skills to complement of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation our talented management team and creating robust succession plans Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee to safeguard the Companys future performance.
Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year to 30 June 2016.
There were three Committee meetings held during the year and after each Committee meeting the Chairman of the Committee reported to the Board on the key issues discussed during the meetings.
I would like to express my thanks to Nick Ferguson for his contribution to the work of the Committee during his Chairmanship.
I would also like to thank Arthur Siskind and Dave Lewis who stepped down as members of the Committee during the year.
The Committee continues to comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors in compliance with the Code.
Andy Sukawaty Committee Chairman Committee composition Andy Sukawaty Chairman Martin Gilbert James Murdoch Matthieu Pigasse Attendance at Committee meetings The Group CEO and General Counsel attend the meetings from time to time and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Sky plc 46 Governance Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee agenda The Committee considered the deliberations of the Independent Directors Focus for the Committee this year has centred on the following items: and their recommendations.
The Committee noted that the Company would not be in compliance with section A.
3.1 of the UK Corporate Board changes Governance Code as he would not fulfil the Codes independence criteria Board and Committee composition but concluded that James Murdoch was the best candidate for the position External Board evaluation and his appointment was in the best interests of the Company and its Review of Non-Executive Director independence shareholders.
Review of Directors conflicts of interest The Committee agreed that the appointment of Martin Gilbert as Deputy The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys Chairman and Andy Sukawaty as the Senior Independent Director would corporate website.
further strengthen the Companys corporate governance and ensure that the interests of the independent shareholders are protected.
Activities during the year The Committee recommended the appointments to the Board who Board changes unanimously approved the proposals.
The Committee keeps the Boards balance of skills, knowledge and Following Nick Fergusons retirement there are currently 11 directors on the experience and the length of service of individuals under constant review.
Board, of which six directors are deemed by the Board to be independent.
At the conclusion of last years AGM, David DeVoe, Danny Rimer and Arthur Siskind stepped down from the Board and John Nallen was appointed as a Committee composition Non-Executive Director.
It has been the desire of the Board for its size to be During the year, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board reduced when a suitable opportunity arose.
After taking into consideration Committees.
On 4 November 2015, Arthur Siskind stepped down as a the existing mix of skills and experience on the Board, the Committee made member of this Committee and James Murdoch was appointed in his place a recommendation to the Board that it was now the right time for its size on 27 January 2016.
Furthermore, Dave Lewis stepped down as a member to be reduced.
Following these changes the number of 21CF directors on of this Committee on 9 June 2016 and Matthieu Pigasse was appointed in the Board reduced from four to three and the total number of Board his place.
On 9 June 2016, Martin Gilbert stepped down as Chairman of the members reduced from 14 to 12.
Audit Committee and he was replaced by Adine Grate.
Following the retirement of Nick Ferguson as a Director on 30 April 2016, Andy Sukawaty During the year, Nick Ferguson indicated that he wished to stand down was identified as a suitable successor as Chairman of this Committee and as Chairman, having ensured continuity while a new Group of Independent he was appointed on 9 June 2016.
Non-Executive Directors Independent Directors settled into their roles.
Martin Gilbert, then Senior Independent Director, led the process to Board evaluation appoint a successor which is described below.
The approach and findings of this years external facilitated board evaluation are detailed on pages 41 to 42.
At the outset of the process James Murdoch advised Martin Gilbert that he would like to apply for the Chairman position and he was Independence then excluded from playing any part in discussions on Chairman During the year, all Non-Executive Directors were asked to complete succession which followed.
questionnaires to enable the Committee to determine their independence.
The Committee reviewed the questionnaires and recommended to the Martin Gilbert briefed the Independent Directors who met as a Group Board that there be no changes to the independent status of the current and considered the Companys corporate governance, their responsibility Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors who to promote the success of the Company and the skills, capabilities and are considered by the Board to be independent are clearly identified on time commitment required of the next Chairman.
The Independent Directors noted that the Company had a strong Board As noted on page 40, James Murdoch, Chase Carey and John Nallen are composed of a majority of Independent Directors and that the Board had not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
been chaired successfully by a 21CF affiliated director at various times in However, following the evaluation the Committee considers that each the past, including by James Murdoch himself.
The Board also has strong of these Directors continue to make a significant contribution to Board Corporate Governance processes in place to deal with any potential conflict and Committee discussions.
situations, which have been used effectively in the past, most recently during the proposal to acquire Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
Directors conflicts The Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts during the financial year The Independent Directors agreed that James Murdoch was a strong and concluded that Directors conflicts had been appropriately authorised candidate to succeed Nick Ferguson with unique strengths, who had and that the process for authorisation was operating effectively.
The successfully Chaired the Company in the past.
The appointment of an Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential internal candidate who had worked very well with the Board and the conflicts of interest and take action to mitigate them as necessary.
Companys management team with extensive industry experience would ensure stability and continuity.
The Independent Directors unanimously agreed to recommend the appointment of James Murdoch as Chairman of the Company to the Committee.
At the same time, it was concluded that the appointments of Martin Gilbert as Deputy Chairman and Andy Sukawaty as the Senior Independent Director would further strengthen the Companys corporate governance and provide independent points of contact for shareholders.
Annual Report 2016 47 Corporate governance report continued Activities during the year Bigger Picture Committee The Committee oversaw a number of developments in relation to the Chairmans overview Bigger Picture, including the progress being made on embedding the Group responsible business strategy to ensure consistency of approach and I am pleased to report that there has been significant reporting.
The Committee also conducted a review of Skys progress on progress across the Bigger Picture.
Highlights include responsible sourcing and human rights, data protection and accessibility, integrating our responsible business approach child safety and the environment.
across the Group, the continued success of Team Sky and our support for cycling and the impact Sky is committed to keeping customer information safe and secure.
our opportunities across the Group are having The Committee noted Skys expansion of existing approaches to data to unlock potential in young people.
protection and privacy across the Group and Skys commitment to continual improvement in these areas, as the risks to our business Skys commitment to sustainability has been reflected in a number and customers evolve.
of leading investor indices during the year, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, Carbon Disclosure Projects A List The Committee is proud of Skys continued successes in supporting and Newsweeks Green Rankings.
young people, with more than 157,700 young people having taken part in our initiatives.
The Committee believes that the focus and scale of the Bigger Picture continues to make a significant contribution to Skys ability to build In the UK and Ireland, Sky Academy uses the power of TV, creativity a better business for the long term.
The Committee looks forward and sport to unlock potential in young people.
The Committee oversaw to further development of the Bigger Picture.
the progress in building their skills and experience.
There were two Committee meetings during the year and after Sky Sports Living for Sport is inspiring and building skills in a third of each meeting I reported to the Board on the key issues discussed.
secondary schools across the UK and Ireland, reaching over 110,000 young people.
Sky Academy Careers Lab at Skys West London campus and pop Progress against the Bigger Picture strategy is detailed at ups in Dublin and Livingstone, saw over 6,000 young people aged 1619 visit sky.
Sky to gain career insights and build employability skills.
The Sky Academy James Murdoch Skills Studios in London and Livingstone have provided opportunities Committee Chairman for over 25,000 young people this year.
The Committees view is that Sky Academy experiences should provide insight into the diversity of roles Composition of the Committee in the media.
Sky Academy Starting Out is playing a significant role in this, James Murdoch Chairman having doubled the number of career opportunities available for young Tracy Clarke people within Sky in the last three years.
More than 1,000 young people Dave Lewis took part in our apprenticeship, graduate, placement and work experience Attendance at Committee meetings programmes in 2015 16 and more than 10% of employees participated in The Group CEO, Group COO & CFO, senior executives, representatives Sky Academy through volunteering.
from Corporate Affairs and the Bigger Picture team attend meetings The Committee is pleased to note the progress being made in Italy to at the request of the Chairman.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts support young people through art, TV and sport, with more than 10,000 as Secretary to the Committee.
young people taking part this year 2015: 2,300.
Sky TG24 for Schools, Bigger Picture Committee agenda which links with Sky Italias 24 hour news channel, has expanded its Focus for the year has centred on the following items: opportunities to 1419 year olds this year and the impact of Artevisione The development and integration of our responsible business approach Arts scholarships has been further enhanced with the introduction across the Group, including a review of Skys data governance approach of mentoring.
A review of progress on unlocking potential in young people across the Sky Foundation in Germany has supported more than 5,000 young people Group this year, helping them to develop skills and lead an active life.
By partnering Progress as detailed in Skys Bigger Picture reporting with charities across the country, Sky Foundation brings opportunities Future development of the Bigger Picture strategy for young people to join year-round sports programmes including swimming and football.
Sky Deutschland employees continue to support the The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys Sky Foundation through volunteering and fundraising.
Through its review of the Bigger Picture reporting, the Committee noted the overall progress against Skys commitments.
The recommendations the Committee made to improve the communication of progress have been incorporated for the 2015 16 year.
Overall, the Committee continued to note the positive economic, social and environmental contribution of Sky and looks forward to areas of opportunity for further developing Skys impact through the Bigger Picture.
For more information about Skys approach and progress over the year, go to sky.
