Strategic report Governance Accounts Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction Smiths has a long and proud history, and excellence in corporate Throughout the year the Board has met regularly with members governance is essential to ensuring the Companys continued and of the executive management team and other senior managers, long-term success.
As the Board of Smiths we are responsible during Board meetings and at other times.
In particular the Board for the good stewardship of our shareholders investment: we set has participated in detailed strategic reviews, operating reviews the strategic direction and risk appetite within which the executive and risk reviews for each of the business areas of the Group.
management team generate and drive value but all underpinned Non-executive directors have also had the opportunity to meet bya strong framework of good governance.
with senior management less formally, during dinners and during business visits, in order to give them the opportunity to connect In this Annual Report we are reporting against the FRCs new revised withindividuals at various levels in the organisation.
UK Corporate Governance Code and the Board has adopted the revised principles and requirements it contains, including assessing I was interested to see the FRCs report on Corporate Culture the Companys long-term viability and increased focus on the andthe Role of Boards published in July of this year which explores Companys assurance framework for risk management.
During the responsibility of Boards for setting the right tone at the top the year we introduced an extra meeting of the Audit Committee and overseeing the values and culture of a business and the at which the committee was able to obtain a deeper understanding importance of this in ensuring effective business decisions and of the risks of each of the business divisions and to give added focus risk management.
The Board spent time during Board meetings to specific risks such as cyber-security, as well as considering this year to consider the Companys ethics and anti-bribery the strategic risks for the Group as a whole.
I am pleased with the programme, the health and safety programme, and its security work done in relation to setting the risk appetite for the Group, and environmental sustainability programmes.
The Board also and in understanding the material risk areas in terms of multiple considered work undertaken around the Groups supplier code dimensions that include reputational impact and velocity.
I think this of conduct and endorsed a statement for publication reinforcing puts us in much better shape to weather the storms to which all our commitment to ensure there is no slavery in our operations.
businesses are subject from time to time.
Whichtakes me back to my original theme the key to resilience isto ensure that a business keeps the trust and respect of its internal I reported last year that the Board had overseen a great deal of and external stakeholders, and Smiths is absolutely committed to change in 2015, and we continued to support Andy Reynolds Smith demanding the right behaviours at all times.
and Chris OShea through their inductions and during their first year as Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, respectively.
Following Sir George Buckley the retirement of David Challen from the Board after last years Chairman Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Committee carried out a thorough review of the Boards composition, looking at the skills, knowledge and experience needed to take Smiths forward.
Following a rigorous selection process I was delighted that Mark Seligman joined the Board in May as a non-executive director.
Mark has had a good induction and it was helpful that he was able to join us in time for the Boards strategic review at its three-day meeting in May.
Iwasalso extremely pleased when Sir Kevin Tebbit agreed to take on the position of Senior Independent Director, as were the rest of theBoard.
Excellence in corporate governance is essential to ensuring the Companys continued and long-term success.
Sir George Buckley Chairman Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 75 Corporate governance statement Continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 in summary Throughout the period 1 August 2015 to 31 July 2016 the Company has been in full compliance with the September 2014 edition of Succession planning for the Board and senior management the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published by the remained a priority together with oversight of a focused, Financial Reporting Council FRC and available on its website comprehensive induction programme for the new executive https: www.
The Board held its annual senior management talent governance .
aspx except that: and succession planning review.
1 The Company has not put the external audit contract out to Andy Reynolds Smith appointed as Chief Executive and tender for more than ten years.
Details of the Companys intention ChrisOShea appointed as Chief Financial Officer.
in respect of competitive audit tendering and audit firm rotation and Appointment of Sir Kevin Tebbit as SID and recruitment its compliance with the Competition & Markets Authoritys Statutory andinduction of Mark Seligman as non-executive director.
Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee The Audit Committee added a fourth meeting to its annual Responsibilities Order 2014 are described in the Audit Committee schedule in order to enable a greater focus on risk assessment report on pages 88 and 89. and management: it also monitored reporting in accordance withthe UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
2 The value of any fees received by Philip Bowman in respect The Board supported a number of Ethics programmes, including of his external non-executive directorships up to the time that he regional Business & Ethics Forums in Sao Paulo, Washington, ceased to be a director of the Company on 24 September 2015 is not DC and Shanghai, and approved the Smiths Modern Slavery Act disclosed in the Directors remuneration report, as this has not been Statement and a positive assurance programme for compliance considered relevant to the Company.
issues at key suppliers in high-risk countries.
Disclosure Guidance & Transparency Rule 7 With oversight by the Board, information and cyber-security risks This Corporate governance statement is a section of the Group continued to have a proactive focus.
Compulsory training was directors report and is incorporated into the report by reference.
deployed to all employees, alongside a rolling real-life simulation This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : 2.5: 2.7: programme aimed to make employees aware of the external and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure Guidance threats from attacks such as phishing.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Group directors report on page 117 and is incorporated into this Corporate governance statement by reference.
76 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance structure The governance structure of the Group is illustrated below.
The Board is responsible to stakeholders for overseeing these activities and supervising management in its implementation of the strategy within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board is also responsible for setting the Companys culture of ethical behaviour and compliance, and for promoting policies and providing oversight.
The main activities of the Board are listed on page 78.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code certain Board responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees which play an important role in supporting the Board their terms of reference are available on our website.
In addition, the work of the Chief Executives Committee in executing the Groups strategy is supported by a number of sub-committees.
Governance model Board and Board Committees Board Reviews and approves strategy, budgets and plans and ensures governance, risk and control framework Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Reviews and makes recommendations Makes recommendations to Board Monitors integrity of financial to the Board on structure, size and on remuneration framework and statements, internal control systems composition of Board and Board remuneration of Chairman, executive and risk management and internal Committees and succession planning directors and senior management and external audit controls for directors and senior management Executive Management structure Executive Committee Investment Committee Disclosure Committee Acquisitions & Divestments Committee Develops and recommends Assesses high-value Advises CEO and Board Approves mergers, strategy to Board, high-risk proposals, in accordance with acquisitions, disposals recommends budgets capital expenditure, Disclosure Policy.
and joint ventures within and plans to Board and assetdisposal and special Makesrecommendations parameters delegated executes strategy and revenue expenditure concerning identification byBoard drives performance projects that need Board of inside information and tobudget and plans orCEOapproval the timing and method ofdisclosure In addition to the above there are a number of functional committees which include the Environmental Health & Safety Steering Committee, 3 the Companys innovation council, known as i, and the Ethics Code Compliance Council.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 77 Corporate governance statement Continued The Board Board composition: balance and tenure As at 27 September 2016, the Board comprises Sir George Buckley Board role and responsibilities The Board holds formal meetings at least six times a year to make Chairman, Andy Reynolds Smith Chief Executive, Chris OShea Chief Financial Officer and six independent non-executive and review major decisions and monitor trading against the plans which it has approved, and holds additional meetings to consider directors: Bruno Angelici, Tanya Fratto, Anne Quinn, Bill Seeger, Mark Seligman and Sir Kevin Tebbit Senior Independent Director.
the strategy of each of the divisions and the overall strategy of the Company.
Further meetings are arranged as necessary to deal with On18September 2015 Chris OShea was appointed as Chief Financial Officer and succeeded Peter Turner who resigned as urgent items.
The Board exercises control by determining matters specifically reserved to it in a formal schedule which only the Board Finance Director on 24 April 2015 and Rob White who acted as interim CFO until Chris OSheas appointment.
Andy Reynolds Smith may change: these matters include the acquisition or divestment of significant companies or businesses, the issue of shares, significant was appointed as an executive director and as the Chief Executive on 25 September 2015 his predecessor, Philip Bowman, having contractual commitments, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes and major capital expenditure.
stepped down as Chief Executive and as a director of the Company on 24 September 2015.
David Challen retired as a non-executive The Board sets the Companys values and standards, including director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM the Companys Code of Business Ethics which is referred to on inNovember 2015.
On 16 May 2016 Mark Seligman was appointed pages61 to 64.
The role of the Board in the governance of the Group as a non-executive director of the Company.
Biographies of the is illustrated in the diagram on page 77 and its main activities are current directors are set out on pages 72 to 74. outlined in the diagram below.
The Board and its committees have the appropriate balance The executive directors and senior management team are of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the responsible for the Companys financial performance, the day-to-day Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties management of the Companys businesses and implementation of and responsibilities effectively.
The wide-ranging experience and the strategy and direction approved by the Board.
backgrounds of the non-executive directors ensure that they can Board activities debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the development of strategy and the evaluation of performance Culture, trust and values againstthe goals set by the Board.
Ethics and compliance The Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the Health and safety executive directors present after each Board meeting in order to Environmental management understand their priorities and issues.
He also meets with the Senior Security of people, assets and information Independent Director and the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Senior Independent Director meets the other Strategy non-executive directors without the Chairman present at least Group strategic plans and annual budget annually and is available to provide support to the Chairman and M&A strategy, pipeline toserve as an intermediary for the other directors, if required.
Major acquisitions and post-acquisition reviews Board balance and independence Financing There is a balance of executive and non-executive directors such Performance that no individual or small group can dominate the Boards decision making.
Throughout the financial year at least half the Board, Talent pipeline and succession excluding the Chairman, has comprised independent CEOs report non-executive directors.
Divisional performance updates and operating reviews The FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 states that diversity KPIs is as much about differences of approach and experience as it is Risk and controls about gender.
The Board does not endorse the setting of rigid quotas to achieve diversity but it does believe in the merits of a diverse mix Internal audit reports of experience, interests and personalities to ensure the effective Risk management process functioning of a Board in which the dialogue is both challenging Viability testing and constructive.
The diagrams overleaf illustrate the good balance Financial oflonger standing Board members and more recent appointments, and the diversity in gender and nationality.
Financial performance versus budget and forecasts The individual qualifications, strengths and experiences of the Trading statements directors are included in their biographies on pages 72 to 74.
Annual results Financial risk and treasury reports In deciding the chairmanship and membership of the Board Tax risk and status reports committees, the need to refresh membership of the committees is taken into account.
The table on page 79 indicates the service, Governance and compliance to 31 July 2016, of each of the directors.
Board effectiveness review Corporate governance updates Director conflicts of interest review Share register and investors Inside information and disclosure requirements Legal issues and litigation report 78 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Each of the non-executive directors is considered to be independent director, including contributing constructive challenge and debate and Sir George Buckley was considered to be independent at the at meetings, and there has been no evidence that his tenure on time of his appointment as Chairman.
In the light of the length the Board has impacted his independence.
As such the Board is of service of Sir Kevin Tebbit on the Board, the Board and each satisfied that Sir Kevin continues to bring robust non-executive ofitscommittees undertook a rigorous review of his performance, oversight.
During the review, the Board also determined that including his independence in order to evaluate his contribution SirKevin should remain in the role of Senior Independent Director to the Board and to the committees on which he sits.
Sir Kevin  to that role on the retirement of the continues to demonstrate attributes of an independent non-executive previous incumbent, David Challen, on 17 November 2015.
Board balance, diversity and tenure These charts illustrate the diversity and tenure of board members as at 31 July 2016.
Nationality Four nationalities are represented on the Board United Kingdom, France, United States and New Zealand, although the international experience of Board members is much wider than this.
United Kingdom France United States New Zealand Executive balance Gender balance Board tenure Executive directors 2 25% Female 2 22% From 0 to 2 years 45% Non-executive directors 6 75% Male 7 78% From 3 to 6 years 33% excluding the Chairman From 7 to 10 years 22% Further details on the tenure of each director are shown on pages 72 to 74.
Tenure of the Board The Board and Nomination Committee regularly review the mix of skills and experience on the Board.
The chart illustrates the good balance of longer standing Board members and more recent appointments, providing both continuity and fresh perspectives.
3 years 0 months Sir George Buckley 6 years 1 month Bruno Angelici 10 months Andy Reynolds Smith 10 months Chris OShea 4 years 1 month Tanya Fratto 7 years 0 months Anne Quinn 2 years 2 months Bill Seeger 2 months Mark Seligman 10 years 2 months Sir Kevin Tebbit 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 79 Corporate governance statement Continued Chairman and Chief Executive Appointments to the Board The Board has established clearly defined roles for the Chairman The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership procedure for the appointment of new directors, which are made of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executives the benefits of diversity, including gender.
This procedure was responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and financial followed in the selection and appointments of Chris OShea, as an objectives approved by the Board.
During the year, the Chairman executive director and Chief Financial Officer on 18 September 2015: andChief Executive have had meetings or calls at least weekly.
AndyReynolds Smith, as an executive director and Chief Executive on 25September 2015: and Mark Seligman, as a non-executive director on 16 May 2016.
Further information in relation to the recruitment Key roles and responsibilities of Messrs OShea, Reynolds Smith and Seligman is contained in Chairman theNomination Committee report on pages 91 and 92.
The Chairmans responsibilities include: The Board is satisfied that the directors are able to allocate sufficient Leadership of the Board time to their responsibilities relating to the Company.
During the Setting the agenda and tone for the Board year, the Board considered the other engagements and proposed Promoting high standards of integrity and corporate governance engagements of the directors as part of the director conflicts Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board ofinterest procedure, as further described below.
Chief Executive Re-election All directors stand for election by the shareholders at the first The Chief Executives responsibilities include: AGM following their appointment.
The Board has resolved that Ensuring implementation of the strategic and financial all directors who are willing to continue in office will stand for objectives approved by the Board re-election by the shareholders each year at the AGM.
Non-executive Providing leadership on all executive management matters directors are appointed for a specified term of three years, subject affecting the Company now to annual re-election at each AGM, and reappointment Leadership of his Executive Committee for a second three-year term is not automatic.
Any term for a Ensuring the Companys diverse stakeholder relationships non-executive director beyond six years is subject to a particularly including with shareholders, employees and customers rigorous review.
The Chairman has confirmed that, following the areproperly managed performance reviews undertaken in 2016, the performance of each of the directors standing for re-election at this years AGM Senior Independent Director continues to be effective and that they each continue to demonstrate The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include: commitment to their respective roles and dedicate the time Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman necessary to perform their duties.
Acting as an intermediary for the directors where necessary Conflicts of interest Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which Under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act a director must avoid cannot be resolved through the Chairman or executive a situation where he or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect management interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys Conducting an annual review of the Chairmans performance interests.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate and Company Secretary where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Company Secretarys responsibilities include: Article 65 of the Companys Articles of Association provides that Maintaining the Groups governance and listing rule compliance thedirectors can authorise potential conflicts of interest.
framework The Board has put procedures in place for directors to report Ensuring that all Board and Board committee meetings are anypotential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board properly held and advising the Board on matters of governance for their authorisation where appropriate.
Each director is aware and on legislative and regulatory developments ofthe requirement to seek approval of the Board for any new conflict Assisting the Chairman and the Chief Executive in ensuring situations, as they may arise.
The process of formally reviewing that the directors are provided with all relevant information conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given including such inatimely manner conditions as the Board may determine in each case, is repeated Organising new director induction and ongoing director training twice a year.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of director conflicts which is maintained bythe Company Secretary.
The current directorships in listed companies and other significant commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are shown on pages 72 to 74.
During the year, Andy Reynolds Smith resigned as a non-executive director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc and Tanya Fratto was appointed as a non-executive director of Ashtead Group plc.
It is confirmed that the Chairman and the non-executive directors have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company and that no executive director holds more than one non-executive directorship of another FTSE100company.
80 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Board meetings and visits Induction, information and professional development The table below shows the number of Board meetings held during The Board is provided with detailed information up to a week the financial year ended 31 July 2016 and, opposite each directors in advance on matters to be considered at its meetings and name, the number of meetings they were eligible to attend and the non-executive directors have ready access to the executive directors number actually attended.
and other senior corporate staff.
Non-executive directors are also provided with information and updates between meetings.
Regular Board meetings site visits are arranged and non-executive directors are encouraged Eligible to to visit sites independently.
During site visits, briefings are arranged Attended attend and the directors are free to discuss aspects of the business with Sir George Buckley Chairman 11 11 employees at all levels.
Andy Reynolds Smith appointed 25 September 2015 8 8 Newly appointed directors undergo an induction programme to Chris OShea appointed 18 September 2015 9 9 ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and understanding Bruno Angelici 10 11 of the Company and its activities.
They undertake briefing sessions Tanya Fratto 10 11 on corporate governance, strategy, stakeholder issues, finance Anne Quinn 11 11 and risk management and HR, as well as meetings and site visits Bill Seeger 11 11 to business locations.
Each directors individual experience and Mark Seligman appointed 16 May 2016 2 2 background is taken into account in developing a programme Sir Kevin Tebbit 10 11 tailored to his or her own requirements.
The suitability of external Philip Bowman resigned 24 September 2015 3 3 courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary who is David Challen retired 17 November 2015 4 4 charged with facilitating the induction of new directors and with assisting in the ongoing training and development of all directors.
Includes four occasions where matters were conducted by telephone conference Tailored induction programmes were designed for Chris OShea, calls and one matter approved by written resolution Andy Reynolds Smith and Mark Seligman in order to ease their Bruno Angelici, Tanya Fratto and Sir Kevin Tebbit were each unable to attend a nontransitions into their respective new roles and to expedite their scheduled conference call meeting, called at short notice, due to prior commitments integration into the Group.
Rob White also attended three meetings as Interim Chief Financial Officer prior to the appointment of Chris OShea as Chief Financial Officer Advice and insurance All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company During the year, the divisional general managers, heads of Corporate Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take independent departments, senior managers and other external advisers were professional advice at the Companys expense should this be required.
invited to attend certain Board meetings, as and when required.
The directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have The Board regards attendance at meetings as only one measure of the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
directors contributions to the Company.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the directors attend other meetings and make site visits Performance during the year.
The Board and its committees undertake an annual evaluation of their own performance.
This is conducted by external consultants at least once every three years.
Last year the Board evaluation was conducted by an external consultant and the resulting actions included the introduction of a framework of periodic Board agenda items, focusing on certain key areas, such as succession planning and cyber-security risks.
In view of the changes in composition of the Board during theyear, the evaluation for this financial year is being conducted with the assistance of an external consultant, Lintstock Limited which also provides the Company with software and services for maintaining itsinsider list under the EU Market Abuse Regulation.
The evaluation involved the completion by the directors of questionnaires relating to the performance of the Board and its committees collectively and to the personal contributions of the individual directors.
Thequestionnaires were administered confidentially by Lintstock.
TheBoard members were asked tomark the performance of the Board in areas such as strategy, riskmanagement, succession planning and the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the Board.
They were also asked to make Board visit to Smiths Medical, Minneapolis, USA specific comments and suggestions for improving the performance As part of its 2016 schedule, the Board visited the head office and efficiency of the Board.
Lintstocks analysis of and report on and research and development laboratory of Smiths Medical the responses to the questionnaire will be discussed by the Board, in Minneapolis in July 2016.
The visit included presentations on whichwill review thefindings and agree appropriate actions.
strategy, performance, operations, R&D and quality from senior management, a tour of the facility and the opportunity to meet In addition, an evaluation of the Chairman was carried out by employees in a less formal setting.
SirKevin Tebbit, as the Senior Independent Director, who sought theindividual views of each of the directors.
Sir Kevin then met withthe Chairman to discuss feedback.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 81 Corporate governance statement Continued The Board continued with its practice of setting itself a series of Dialogue with other capital providers written objectives for the financial year.
Those for the year ended The Company values the contribution of its committed lending 31July 2016 included the following: banks and bond holders to the achievement of its strategic aims.
The Chief Financial Officer and the Director, Tax and Treasury meet on-boarding of the new executive directors with and communicate proactively with this investor base and the creating a vision for Smiths that equates to the drive rating agencies, Standard & Poors and Moodys, on a regular basis.
andimagination shown by the Smiths of the past There is also a formal, annual meeting with the rating agencies.
They communicate with the debt markets generally viainvestor developing the growth strategy roadshows at the time of financing activity.
Committed banks succession planning for CEO and senior leadership areinvited to the biannual presentations of its trading results and the Capital Markets Days to enable them to keep informed Relations with shareholders and other capital providers ofbusiness strategy and meet both senior corporate and divisional Dialogue with shareholders management.
Members of the Board are kept informed of the The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the current credit views of debt investors, generally, and the rating GroupDirector, Corporate Affairs communicate with institutional agencies, specifically, by regular commentary and financial investorsthrough analysts briefings and extensive investor metricreporting to meetings.
roadshows in the UK, US and continental Europe, as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements, meetings with management Constructive use of the Companys Annual General Meeting and site visits, as shown in the table below.
The Chairman also All directors normally attend the AGM and shareholders are invited met with investors.
TheSenior Independent Director and the other to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors before non-executive directors are available to meet shareholders on and after the formal proceedings have ended.
Membersof the Board, and in particular non-executive theAGM as an opportunity to meet with those shareholders who directors, are kept informed of investors views, in the main through areable to attend and to take their questions.
distribution of analysts and brokers briefings.
At least twice a year At the 2015 AGM all directors in post, including the Chairs of the a report is made to the Board on the number and types of meetings Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, were available between the Company and institutional shareholders.
The Board toanswer shareholders questions.
The notice of the AGM and is confident that this process enables the non-executive directors related papers were sent to shareholders at least 20 working days to maintain a balanced understanding of the views and concerns before the meeting.
The 2016 AGM will be held on 15 November 2016 and is an During the year, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group continued the programme of dialogues with shareholders in the business in person.
It is intended that there shall be a poll vote UK, US and continental Europe as part of the 2016 investor relations on each resolution at the 2016 AGM.
The audited, final results of programme, detailed below.
the poll votes will be released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon asis practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
Investor relations activities timeline 2016 Roadshows Presentations June 2016 Hong Kong equity May 2016 France and Germany equity April 2016 US equity March 2016 UK equity Interim results December 2015 Private client brokers November 2015 Private client brokers AGM October 2015 CEO and CFO introductory roadshow September 2015 Annual results During financial year 2016, senior management and the Contact with investors analysts investor relations team had contact with over 250 analysts United Kingdom 58% andinvestors.
US and Canada 26% Rest of Europe 12% Rest of World 4% 82 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Accountability and audit The Companys internal control is based on assessment of risk and Financial reporting a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable compliance with procedures.
The procedures for accountability and assessment of the Companys position and prospects in the Annual control are outlined below.
Report and in interim and other public reports.
The directors are The Companys internal control systems are designed to meet the required to explain in the Annual Report the basis on which the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and, Company both generates and preserves value over the longer term by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance and its strategy for delivering the Companys objectives.
TheBoard against material loss to the Company or material misstatement is satisfied that it has met these obligations in this Annual Report.
A summary of the directors responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 124.
The Group has an embedded process for the identification, evaluation and management of its principal business risks.
The The assessment of the fairness, balance and understandability process is reviewed through the Audit Committee and monitored by of the Annual Report is described on page 86. the Group Internal Audit department.
The Company has during the The going concern statement required by the Code is set out year identified the principal risks and the controls and procedures in the Group directors report on page 116. that are in place to manage these risks.
The directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, A report on the viability assessment made by the Board in including those that would threaten its business model, future accordance with requirements of the Code is included in the performance, solvency and liquidity, and the controls and procedures Strategic report on page 52. put in place to manage and mitigate the risks and defend the Group Internal control as described on pages 52 to 60.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent In the highly regulated environment of the industries in which ofthe significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its particular the Company operates, procedures are codified in detailed objectives and ensuring that there are sound risk management operating procedures manuals and are reinforced by training and internal control systems in place to safeguard shareholders programmes.
These are designed to ensure compliance not only investments and the Companys assets.
Throughout the financial with the regulatory requirements but also with general principles year the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the ofbusinessintegrity.
effectiveness of internal control and the management of risks.
In addition to financial and business reports, the Board has A key element in any system is communication: the executive reviewed mediumand longer-term strategic plans: management directors and senior corporate staff meet regularly with development programmes: reports on key operational issues: representatives from the businesses to address financial, human tax: treasury: risk management: insurance: legal matters: and resource, legal, risk management and other control issues.
Audit Committee reports, including internal and external auditors Audit Committee and auditors reports.
The Audit Committee carried out a formal review of the The Audit Committee makes formal and transparent effectiveness of the internal control system, covering all material arrangements for considering how financial reporting and controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, internal control principles are applied and for maintaining an and riskmanagement systems, during the year ended 31 July 2016. appropriate relationship with the independent external auditors, The Company has in place internal control and risk management  LLP.
systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process Remuneration and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out on These systems include policies and procedures that: pertain to page 93 and the Directors remuneration report is on pages 94 to 114. the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide Board Committees reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary The Company has established the Audit, Nomination and to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance Remuneration Committees of the Board.
Each such committee with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : require meets regularly in accordance with its respective terms of reference.
representatives of the businesses to certify that their reported Each committees responsibilities, activities and membership are information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the described in this Corporate governance statement.
The full terms business and its results for the period: and review and reconcile of reference of the following Board committees are available upon reported data.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring request and on the Companys website, www.
these internal control and risk management systems.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 83 Corporate governance statement Continued Audit Committee Bill Seeger Throughout the year we have benefited from productive and open Chairman of the Audit Committee relationships with our external auditor, Internal Audit and Group management.
We have also welcomed the new executive team of Andy Reynolds Smith and Chris OShea who have provided the Committee with their strategic vision for the Group.
The contributions of PwC, Internal Audit and senior management have all enhanced the effective operation of the Committee and its oversight of the Companys controls and risk management.
Ina business with the scale, diversity and geographical spread ofSmiths Group, issues relating to internal financial and other risk controls, codes of conduct and ethical standards arise from time to time for review by the Committee.
We are satisfied that theGrouphas systems in place to identify such issues promptly and that management has the appropriate processes and resources available to address them effectively.
The Committee has continued to monitor the changing rules Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee and regulations applicable to the external auditor and its own I am pleased to report to our stakeholders that the audit committee role in the governance of the Group audit.
Following its review remains focused, diligent and aligned to providing a strong control of the independence and effectiveness of our external auditor, environment for Smiths Group.
Working together, real progress theCommittee affirmed its recommendation last year that the has been made to bring together our risk assessment with our most practical and business-driven approach to our external strategic agenda and priorities.
This year, as outlined in the detailed auditor appointment would be to conduct a competitive tendering report of the committee, our focus was to integrate the work we do and rotation in 2019.
This timeframe would coincide with the with the operational and strategic blueprint for the business under normal audit partner rotation and comply with the auditor rotation our new CEO and CFO.
We also took a thorough look at the Groups transition rules.
The Committee has recommended to the Board lines of defence strategy for modelling the effectiveness of the that PwC should be proposed for reappointment as auditor at enterprise risk management and control systems.
This year we introduced a fourth annual meeting to the We strive to achieve continuous improvement in our financial Committees schedule at which the risk reviews for all the Groups andrisk controls and our high standards of corporate governance businesses were brought together into a single, focused session.
as Smiths Group evolves and grows.
Sincere thanks to my audit This has been of particular benefit in considering the potential committee colleagues as well as the executive team for the impacts of the differing industry and geographical risks presented transparency with which they have supported the Committee.
by our diverse businesses, both individually and in combination.
This has also been used in assessing the risk profile of the Group as a whole and the effect that has on the long-term viability assessment of the Group, as described in this Annual Report.
Committee membership All members of the Committee are independent non-executive The members of the Committee during the 2016 financial year were: directors and, in the view of the Board, have recent and relevant financial and accounting experience gained from their respective Appointed last re-appointed business activities in international businesses.
In particular, Bill Seeger Chairman 12 May 2014 BillSeeger was the Group Finance Director of GKN plc, which Bruno Angelici 1 July 2016 post he had held for over six years before his retirement in 2014.
Tanya Fratto 1 July 2015 Tanya Fratto, Anne Quinn and Bruno Angelici have extensive senior Anne Quinn 1 August 2015 management experience in international oil & gas, engineering and Mark Seligman 16 May 2016 medical devices industries, respectively: Mark Seligman has a long Sir Kevin Tebbit 17 July 2016 history in corporate finance: and Sir Kevin Tebbit has substantial David Challen retired 17 November 2015 knowledge of international governmental relationships.
As part of his induction programme as a director of the Company which All members served on the Committee throughout the year, except included a detailed overview of the Companys business models, for Mark Seligman, who joined the Committee on his appointment strategy and risk profile, Mark Seligman was provided with relevant as a non-executive director of the Company, and David Challen, who material on the constitution and working of the Committee and retired from the Board and the Committee on 17 November 2015. copies of recent papers and presentations.
Further details of the qualifications and experience of the members of the Committee arecontained in the biographies of the directors on pages 72 to 74.
There have been no changes to the membership of the Committee since the financial year-end.
84 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Meetings and attendance Outside of the formal meetings schedule, the Chairman of the Audit The Committee met four times during the 2016 financial year, with Committee has met separately with the senior management of the three meetings timed to align with the financial reporting and audit Company, the representatives of PwC and the Director of Internal cycles of the Company, namely: the approval of the Annual Report Audit to discuss the Companys financial reporting and governance.
in September: the approval of the half-year report in March: and Role and responsibilities the presentation of the pre-year-end early warnings report from The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity of the external auditor,  LLP PwC, inJuly.
the financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of Ameeting was also held in May 2016 at which the Committee sound internal control and risk management systems.
This includes reviewed the risk management reports of the Groups five divisions.
responsibility for monitoring and reviewing: The attendance record of the members of the Committee was: the integrity of the Groups financial statements: the significant reporting issues and judgements contained therein: and the Attendance reports of the external and internal auditors: Bill Seeger Chairman 4 4 Bruno Angelici 4 4 the bases for the Boards statement on the adoption of the going Tanya Fratto 4 4 concern basis of accounting: its assessment of the long-term Anne Quinn 4 4 viability of the Company: and its description of the information Mark Seligman appointed 16 May 2016 2 2 contained in the Annual Report as enabling a fair, balanced Sir Kevin Tebbit 4 4 andunderstandable assessment of the Group: David Challen retired 17 November 2015 1 1 the consistency of the Annual Report and the annual financial statements: In order to maintain effective communications between all relevant parties, the following were frequent attendees at the meetings: financial announcements released by the Company and any reports or returns made by the Group to financial regulators: the Chairman of the Board the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external the Chief Executive auditor, including auditor independence and objectivity: auditor the Group Chief Financial Officer compliance with relevant ethical and professional standards andguidance: audit fees: and provision of non-audit services: the Group Financial Controller the terms of engagement of the external auditor: the Company Secretary the scope of the annual external audit plan and the quality and the Director of Internal Audit experience of the external audit team assigned to its execution: the Group Director of Tax and Treasury and the reports of the external auditor, including any major issues the Group audit partners of the external auditor, PwC.
orreservations and significant accounting and audit judgements highlighted therein: In addition, annual presentations on risk management were given to the Committee by the divisional general manager of each of the the effectiveness of the external audit process, making Groups five divisions and the head of Business Information Services recommendations to the Board on the appointment or BIS, the Groups IT function.
The Senior Vice-President & General re-appointment or the removal of the external auditor: Counsel Ethics & Compliance reported to the Committee on the the remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function implementation of the Business Ethics Programme: the work of and the appropriateness of the resources available thereto: theCompanys Code Compliance Council: and the investigations into allegations of non-compliance with the Ethics Code, including issues the effectiveness of the Groups policies on internal control and raised through the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
risk management systems in the evaluation and management ofsignificant business risk: At the conclusion of the meetings, the representatives of the external auditor and the Director of Internal Audit were each given the statements on the assessment and management of risks opportunity to discuss matters without executive management being andoninternal controls: present.
The Director of Internal Audit, the Senior Vice-President the Groups implementation of the Companys Code of Business &General Counsel Ethics & Compliance and the external auditor Ethics and Business Ethics Programme, including the Groups have direct access to the Chairman and the members of the arrangements for its employees to raise any issues of concern Committee should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal whistleblowing and the process for the investigation and Committee meetings.
resolution of any such issues: and The members of the Committee also had the opportunity to meet the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and systems separately at each meeting to discuss any relevant matters in the andcontrols for preventing bribery.
absence of all the invitees.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports formally to The members of the Committee receive briefing notes from the the full Board on the activities of the Committee after each Company and from PwC on all relevant developments in company Committeemeeting.
law: governance standards: and international and domestic financial accounting practices and regulations.
Written terms of reference that define the Committees authority andresponsibility are available on our website at www.
All the members of the Committee at the time attended the AGM inNovember 2015.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 85 Corporate governance statement Continued Financial and narrative reporting analysed the methodology and processes presented by the During the financial year, the Committee has: management for the assessment in the 2016 Annual Report of the prospects of the Company over the longer-term long-term considered information presented by management on key viability assessment and agreed that a three-year period is matters of accounting judgements and policies, adopted in appropriate for this purpose, taking into consideration the respect ofthe Companys 2015 Annual Report and 2016 half-year Companys various business cycles and forecasting models.
report, and relevant changes to accounting standards and agreed TheCommittee considered scenario-based stress testing models, theirappropriateness: prepared by the Company, to assess the impact on Group cash discussed with PwC the firms audit reports and noted the and finances if one or more of the Groups principal risks occurred.
key accounting matters and significant judgements highlighted The Committee concurred with the conclusion that the Groups by PwC in respect of each set of financial statements: balance sheet and ability to raise cash were more than sufficient to withstand such occurrences comfortably for at least the three-year reviewed documentation prepared to support the statement on period under review.
internal control in the 2015 Annual Report and was satisfied that the Company was operating an effective system of internal controls Subsequent to the end of the financial year, the Committee has also to manage risk: reviewed and reported to the Board on the reports and information supplied by management and by PwC on the judgements and reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern policies adopted for the 2016 Annual Report and the content of that judgement in the 2015 Annual Report and concluded that the document.
The Committee considered that the quality and range of accounts had been properly prepared on a going concern basis: the material included within the 2016 Annual Report was sufficient assessed the processes and activities undertaken by the Group to provide shareholders with the necessary information for them in order to ensure that the 2015 Annual Report, taken as a whole, to assess properly the Groups position, performance, business would be fair, balanced and understandable and concluded that model and strategy and that the report was presented in such a the quality and range of information provided in the Annual Report way as could be considered fair, balanced and understandable.
was sufficient to enable shareholders to assess properly the The Committee reviewed the statement on risk management and Groups position, performance, business model and strategy: internal controls: the going concern statement: the assessment of the long-term viability of the Group: and the content of the examined key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the announcement of the financial results for 2016. adequacy, clarity and completeness of the 2015 Annual Report and 2016 half-year report and the preliminary announcement of the In assessing the fairness, balance and understandability of the 2016 annual results: Annual Report, the Committee considered: reported to the Board its views on significant financial reporting the accuracy and integrity of the messages conveyed in the report: issues and judgements applied to the 2015 Annual Report, the 2016 the appropriateness of the level of detail in the narrative reporting: half-year report and the associated information releases including the correlation between the judgements and issues and the matters communicated to the Committee by the external auditor : disclosures and estimation uncertainties: evaluated the bases for and the content of the Strategic report, the consistency between the narrative reporting in the front half the operational review and the corporate governance statement and the financial reporting in the back half of the report: the contained in the 2015 Annual Report: explanations of the differences between statutory and headline reported results: and satisfied itself that the 2015 Annual Report was consistent within itself and that the front half and the back half of the publication the overall design and layout of the information and data: the clarity were thoughtfully cohesive: of the messages and the reporting: the holistic nature of the report.
reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern Following its review of the 2016 Annual Report, the Committee was judgement in the 2016 half-year report, including the review of of the opinion that it is representative of the year and presents a fair, the principal risks for the second half of the financial year, and balanced and understandable overview, providing the necessary concluded that the accounts had been properly prepared on information for shareholders to assess the Groups position, a going concern basis: performance, business model and strategy.
in addition to the press releases for the preliminary annual results Corporate governance for 2015 and the 2016 half-year results, reviewed the Companys During the year, the Audit Committee has reviewed the Companys press releases and announcements containing price-sensitive compliance with its governance obligations and its plans to comply material and reports made to financial regulators during the with forthcoming changes thereto.
In particular, the Committee has: year:and monitored the changes introduced by the Company to ensure full compliance in the 2015 Annual Report with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013: the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and The Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 all of which also govern the 2016 Annual Report: considered the amendments to and developments in the International Financial Reporting Standards that affected the 2016 financial year: and the adoption of FRS 101 in place of the UK GAAP accounting framework: 86 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts taken account of the Competition & Markets Authoritys Statutory Subsequent to the financial year-end, the Committee has Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation consideredand approved the same items in respect of the 2016 Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit auditand the preparation of the 2016 Annual Report.
The Committee Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the CMA Order : has recommended that PwC be proposed for reappointment as external auditor at the 2016 AGM.
considered the changes to the Code contained in the 2016 edition which will apply to the Companys 2017 financial year and the The Committee considered that each of the Companys directors Companys plans to comply with them: and had taken all necessary steps to ensure that he or she was aware ofall pertinent audit information and that such information had reviewed the changes in the Financial Reporting Councils 2016 beenproperly communicated to PwC in a timely manner.
Guidance to Audit Committees and Ethical Standards for Auditors, reflecting the implementation in the UK of the EU Audit Directive External audit plan and Regulation.
PwC presented its Group Audit Plan for the financial year ending 31July 2016.
The Committee discussed with PwC: In relation to the Code, the Committee noted and approved the Companys plan to introduce the long-term viability assessment its risk matrix and the factors affecting the various audit risk and the detailed description of the strategies for managing and assessments: the proposed audit scope, taking into consideration mitigating principal risks and threats in the 2016 financial year.
statutory audit requirements, financially significant components Certain other changes introduced by the Code had already been and significant risk components and central programme testing: adopted by the Company and reflected in the 2015 Annual Report.
materiality levels: The CMA Order applied to the Companys 2016 financial year.
the impairment risk relating to John Crane Production Solutions: Under the transitional provisions of the order, the competitive audittendering regulations require the Company to put the external the adverse effect on working capital of aged inventory and auditor role out to tender by 2023.
The Committee decided not to receivables: and recommend a competitive tender this year in order to enable the the impact of changes in governance regulations and Companys recently appointed Chief Executive and Chief Financial .
Officer the opportunity to acquaint themselves fully with the Group.
The Committee took into account that the current audit engagement The Committee noted the focus on the audit risks associated with partner had had a full year in the role, in addition to his experience revenue recognition: certain litigation risks: impairment of goodwill: in shadowing the 2014 audit.
The Committees proposal for a and management override of controls.
PwCs proposal to decrease competitive audit tender and auditor rotation is described in the the overall materiality level to 17m approximately 3.5% of headline External Auditor effectiveness and reappointment section below.
operating profit 2015: 18m and an unchanged fide-minimis reporting threshold of 500,000 was accepted as prudent and The Company has complied with the provisions of the CMA Order appropriate.
The Committee considered the resources proposed by during the financial year ended 31 July 2016.
PwC, including the qualities, seniorities and experience of the audit External audit team members, to be consistent with the scope of the audit.
It was In relation to the activities of the external auditor, during the financial noted that the Audit Plan had been discussed and co-ordinated with year, the Committee: Internal Audit.
Through a combination of full-scope audits, specified audit procedures and local GAAP statutory audits, business units considered PwCs audit report on the 2015 Annual report: its review producing 89% of the Groups forecast headline operating profit of the 2016 half-year results: and its Early Warning report on the for2016 would be audited by PwC under the 2016 Audit Plan.
2016 audit: The fee structure and terms of the audit engagement letter, which monitored PwCs execution of the audit plans for 2015 and 2016, had been agreed with Smiths management, and PwCs assessment taking into consideration the change of audit partner after rotation of its independence were considered appropriate for the work for the 2015 audit: proposed and were approved.
discussed all major issues identified by PwC during the course Non-audit services of the audits, including the key accounting and audit judgements In order to safeguard auditor independence, the Committee has taken by management and managements responses to the monitored compliance with the Group policy on the engagement auditfindings: of external audit firms for non-audit work.
Non-audit services agreed materiality and fide minimis levels with PwC: were divided into three categories in relation to the incumbent externalauditor: considered the draft letter of representation from the Company to PwC in connection with the audit of the 2015 financial statements: Pre-approved but subject to the Group Chief Financial Officers approval for projects likely to exceed 10,000 where the threat reviewed the non-audit fees paid to PwC and found them to have to auditor objectivity and independence is considered low, such been incurred in accordance with the policy on the provision of as regulatory compliance work: tax advisory work: and low-level non-audit services: acquisition work: conducted the annual review of the independence and objectivity of Permitted but subject to the approval of the Audit Committee for PwC and was satisfied that PwCs behaviour had been professional projects over 10,000 and competitive tendering for projects over in both respects: 100,000 such as larger acquisitions: corporate reorganisation: determined that PwC remained effective in its role as external tax structuring: and IT risk and security: and auditor: and Not permitted such as book keeping: financial system design: recommended to the Board that PwC be proposed for reactuarial services: management functions: and internal audit.
appointment as external auditor at the 2015 AGM for a further year.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 87 Corporate governance statement Continued The Committee recognises that non-audit services falling in External auditor effectiveness and reappointment thePre-approved category can be purchased more cost effectively The Committees review of the performance of PwC and the from and completed more efficiently by the incumbent auditor due effectiveness of the external audit process included consideration tothe audit firms existing knowledge of the Group and its systems.
of the views and opinions of the executive directors and senior TheCommittee is satisfied that the non-audit work performed management on PwCs effectiveness in a number of areas including byPwC during the financial year had been properly assessed independence and objectivity, audit strategy and planning, conduct andauthorised in accordance with the Group policy.
and communication, audit findings and feedback, and expertise and resourcing.
The results were positive and confirmed that both On 17 June 2016, the EU Audit Directive and Regulation came into PwC and its audit process were appropriate and effective and that force and the FRC published a revised Ethical Standard for Auditors the relationships between the audit teams and the Companys in respect of audits of financial years beginning on or after that businesses were strengthening.
The Committee recognised the date.
As a consequence of the new regulation and standard, the challenges in ensuring consistency in the audit process across the Committee has reviewed and approved changes to the Group policy whole Group and the need to continue to improve communication on the engagement of audit firms for non-audit work in order to take atlocal and divisional levels.
account of the prohibited list of non-audit services that an incumbent auditor is not permitted to provide in the EU under the regulation and The Committee received and considered the Independence Letters, the cap on the level of permitted non-audit services that can bebilled.
sent by PwC in September 2015 in respect of its 2015 audit and September 2016 in respect of the 2016 audit, and concurred with External auditor independence PwCs opinion that it had complied with all relevant regulatory and The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation professional requirements and that the firms objectivity had not and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit which been compromised.
are designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
These policies also regulate the appointment by The Committee noted the findings in the Financial Reporting the Group of former employees of PwC and set out the approach Councils May 2016 Audit Quality Inspection report on PwC.
tobetaken when using the external auditor for non-audit work.
Itevaluated a summary of PwCs internal quality control proceduresand noted that the lead engagement partner, Andy The external auditor is not permitted to provide services which Kemp, isaccountable directly to the Committee for the execution couldresult in: ofthe audit.
The Committee satisfied itself that the quality of the the external auditor auditing its own firms work: work exhibited by the firm and its commitment to improvements were ofahigh standard.
the external auditor making management decisions for the Group: PwC has been the Companys external auditor since its formation a mutuality of interests being created: or in 1998, although a predecessor organisation of PwC held office as the external auditor being put in the role of advocate for the Group.
In determining whether to recommend PwC for reappointment as auditor in 2016, the Committee took into The Committees review of the independence of the external consideration the following factors: auditorincluded: the length of PwCs appointment and the guidance on the new audit examining written confirmation from PwC that they remained firm rotation regulations and proposals: independent and objective within the context of applicable professional standards: the results of the effectiveness review detailed above: considering the tenure of the audit engagement partner, who the qualities and experience of the audit partner following the isrequired to rotate every five years in line with ethical standards rotation of the previous audit partner whose five-year term expired andhas so rotated following the conclusion of the 2015 audit : at the completion of the 2014 audit, and monitoring the ratio between the fees for audit work and non-audit the changes in the executive management team during 2016, services 12% in 2015 : and inparticular the appointments of a new Chief Financial Officer who took up his post on 18 September 2015 and a new Chief Executive checking that management confirmed compliance with the Groups who was appointed on 25 September 2015. policies on the employment of former employees of PwC and the use of PwC for non-audit work.
Taking these elements into account and acknowledging that it would take some time to stage a competitive audit tender from As a result of this review, the Committee concluded that PwC initial planning to final selection, the Committee concluded a that remained appropriately independent in the role of external auditor.
it would not be practical to put the auditor appointment for 2016 out Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2016 can be found in note 2 on to competitive tender at this stage and b that it was appropriate page 149.
Non-audit fees incurred during 2016 amounted to 0.3m to recommend to the Board that the reappointment of PwC as the which related principally to tax advisory services and audit-related Companys auditor for a further year be proposed to shareholders assurance services in connection with the interim report.
fees as a percentage of audit fees totalled 6%.
All such activities remained within the policy approved by the Board.
88 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Recognising the various requirements in the Code, the CMA Order Treasury and tax and the Statutory Auditors and Third Country Auditors Regulations During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the report of 2016 implementing the EUs June 2014 Audit Directive and theTreasury department of the Group on financial risk and treasury Regulation, the Committee reviewed its decision last year and management, noting the Groups borrowing position and debt concluded that it would remain in the best interests of the Company capacity.
The extension of the Groups revolving credit facility to 2021, to plan for a competitive audit tender for the rotation of the external at no cost, and the repayment of the Sterling bond, on 30 June 2016, auditor in 2019.
This would coincide with the end of the current were noted.
PwC audit partners five-year term and enable the Company to The Committee also received status reports on tax risk from the plan its implementation of the final audit firm rotation regulations.
Groups Tax department, noting the assessments of compliance, tax Notwithstanding its continued recommendation for tendering in audit risk, tax provisions and international tax rates.
The Companys 2019, the Committee will keep the performance of the incumbent assessment of its appetite for tax risk was also reviewed.
audit firm under annual review.
Ethics The Board has considered and adopted the Committees During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the annual recommendations to propose the reappointment of PwC as auditor report of the Groups Business Ethics Council on the Group-wide in 2016 and to plan for a competitive audit tender and auditor Ethics programme.
The report included details of the investigations rotationin 2019. into allegations of non-compliance with the Ethics Code and There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice whistleblowing events, including bribery and corruption, and ofexternal auditor.
the Councils work programme to support the initiatives of the businesses and monitor compliance with both the Groups Code Internal control and risk management of Business Ethics and the various applicable national regulations.
In fulfilling its responsibilities, the Committee: The Committee received a report on the first phase of an external reported to the Board on its evaluation of the Groups risk review of compliance with Group and divisional ethical policies assurance framework and embedded risk management and procedures.
The Committee considered that the Companys processes, based on consideration of the reports by PwC on the processes and arrangements for staff to report concerns about any Groups control environment and ERP systems and on fraud risk: improprieties were both appropriate and effective.
The Committee the audits undertaken by Internal Audit: and the risk management also considered that the Companys investigation of such reports and reports presented by and discussed with each of the divisions consequential actions where required were timely and effective.
andBIS: and Constitution and membership reviewed managements plans to mitigate and remedy the failings During the year the Committee considered and approved changes and weaknesses in the Companys internal financial and risk to its terms of reference to reflect the changes contained in the Code controls that were identified by PwC and Internal Audit and has and CMA Order, which applied to the Companys 2016 financial year.
The Committee did not view any During the year, the committee memberships of Bruno Angelici and ofthe issues that had been identified and addressed as significant.
Sir Kevin Tebbit came up for review.
After a rigorous review of their The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the identification individual performances as members of and their history on the and management of risk at the Group level.
Each division also Committee with each individual not participating in the discussion presents an analysis of its own business strategic risks to the concerning their own performance, the Committee determined to Committee on an annual basis.
recommend to the Nomination Committee to propose to the Board that Bruno Angelici should be reappointed as a member of the Further information on the Groups systems of internal control Committee for a further three-year term.
In the case of Sir Kevin andrisk management is given on page 83.
Tebbit, who has over ten years service as a non-executive director Internal audit of the Company but was still considered to be independent, the During the financial year the Committee: Committee recommended that Sir Kevin should be reappointed as a member of the Committee for a further year.
It was noted that Bill received progress reports on the execution of the 2016 Internal Seegers first term as a member and as Chairman of the Committee Audit Plan which comprised 50 site audits, nine programme would expire on 12 May 2017.
In recognition that the Companys management and process reviews and four IT reviews : evaluation of Committee memberships usually takes place in July discussed the recommendations made by the internal auditors: annually, it was agreed that it would be prudent to recommend extending Bill Seegers term to the date on which Committee noted the progress being made by management in reducing memberships are considered by the Board in 2017.
It was further thenumbers of aged outstanding recommendations: noted that membership of the Committee would automatically lapse reviewed the effectiveness of Internal Audit as a part of the if a member ceased to be a director of the Company.
Companys risk management process, including its use of KPMG Performance evaluation as an external contractor to provide additional resources and An annual evaluation of the performance of the Committee is capabilities in certain areas: conducted as part of the annual evaluation of the performance of considered the remit of Internal Audit, its budget and resources the Board.
Details of the latest evaluation are given in the Corporate andthe nature and extent of the outsourcing to KPMG: and governance statement on page 81. approved the 2017 Internal Audit Plan 49 site visits, eight programme and process reviews and seven IT reviews, including the proposed audit scope, approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
The Committee noted the number, quality and skills ofstaff employed within Internal Audit.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 89 Corporate governance statement Continued Significant judgements and issues Taxation An important responsibility of the Audit Committee is to review The Committee assessed the appropriateness of the Groups andagree the most significant management judgements and issues.
assumptions and judgements in relation to the estimates of the To satisfy this responsibility, the Committee requests a written assets and liabilities to be recognised in income and deferred tax formal update from the Chief Financial Officer and Director of Tax as well as the treatment of losses in the UK.
Particular focus was and Treasury three times a year and requires regular reports from given to deferred tax assets relating to the John Crane, Inc. asbestos the external auditors at each Committee meeting.
The Committee provision, the Titeflex Corp. CSST provision, the write-off of tax assets carefully considers the content of these reports and the most in John Crane Production Solutions and the recognition of tax assets significant issues and areas of judgement raised.
The key areas in Detection USA and France.
In reviewing projected profit streams ofjudgement in the year were as follows: the Committee was satisfied that, where appropriate, the relevant entities will generate sufficient future taxable profits to utilise those Revenue recognition assets recognised.
Further details on movements in tax balances The Committee reviewed the key judgements on revenue are set out in note 6 of the financial statements.
Attention was given to large, multi-faceted and nonstandard contracts in Smiths Detection and to contracts where Post-retirement benefits percentage of completion accounting was used in Smiths Detection The Committee reviewed and agreed the methods, assumptions and Smiths Interconnect.
The Committee reviewed the accounting and benchmarks used by the actuaries to calculate the position treatment of three large programmes in Smiths Detection where ofthe UK and US schemes at 31 July 2016.
The Committee agreed management has assessed the portion of revenue to be attributed the treatment and the corresponding disclosures on these matters.
and the anticipated profit margin and concluded that the revenue More detail on post-retirement benefits is contained in note 8 of the judgements made were appropriate.
The Committee also reviewed financial statements.
bill and hold transactions in Smiths Detection and were satisfied FRC Corporate Reporting Review with the adopted accounting treatment.
During the year the FRCs Conduct Committee raised a number Impairment of points on the Companys 2015 Annual Report.
The Committee The Committee considered the Groups intangible assets and has monitored the dialogue between the Company and the FRC theassumptions used to justify the carrying values of these assets, and discussed with the external auditors the matters raised and including fair value less costs to sell.
Particular attention was given the responses to date provided by the Company.
The Committee to John Crane Production Solutions, Smiths Interconnect Power noted that the Company has responded to all of the points raised and Smiths Interconnect Microwave Telecoms and Components.
by the FRC, with additional disclosures being included in the 2016 The Committee also reviewed the carrying value of capitalised Annual Report in respect of provisions, revenue, tax, inventory development assets for Smiths Medical and Smiths Detection.
The Committee is aware The Committee agreed that the projected future cash-flows from of the continuing correspondence over the remaining open item, these businesses either supported the carrying value of the assets namely the period over which a range of possible outcomes can or agreed with the value of the impairments recorded.
In the case be estimated sufficiently reliably for the provision by John Crane, of Smiths Interconnect Telecoms, the Committee reviewed the Inc. inrespect of its continuing asbestos litigation and related fair value less costs to sell model and agreed the value of the disclosures, including estimation uncertainty.
The Committee reviewed the disclosures contained Discharge of responsibilities inthe financial statements and agreed that they appropriately reflect During the year, the Committee has monitored its discharge of the sensitivity of the judgements made.
Details of impairment testing responsibilities.
In addition to the actions reported in the sections and sensitivities are included in note 11 of the financial statements.
above, the Committee has: Working capital observed the induction and on-boarding of the new Chief The Committee considered the key judgements within working Executive and new Chief Financial Officer: capital and, in particular, the level of inventory provisions and overdue receivables in emerging markets.
The Committee welcomed Mark Seligman as a new member: and determined that the judgements made were appropriate considered practical ways to improve the quality and clarity to justify the working capital provision levels at 31 July 2016. of the Companys reporting.
Provisions for liabilities and charges The Committee has enjoyed a positive relationship with the The Committee continued to monitor carefully the expert Board throughout the year and has no contentious or unresolved assessments of the financial exposure of the Group to the John issues toreport.
Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation and to the Titeflex Corp. CSST claims.
In particular, the Committee considered the treatment Advice of potential liabilities and the changes to the assumptions made The Committee has independent access to the services of Internal in calculating the provisions, including the reassessment of the Audit and to the external auditor and may obtain outside professional timeperiod for the Titeflex Corp. CSST provision and the continued advice, at the expense of the Company, as it sees fit, in the appropriateness of the ten-year time period for John Crane, performance of its duties.
In both these cases, it was determined that the assumptions fairly reflect the position at 31 July 2016.
Furtherdetails of the assumptions used are included in note 22 ofthe financialstatements.
90 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Nomination Committee Sir George Buckley Introduction from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee During the 2016 financial year the Nomination Committee worked to find the Companys two new executive directors and we were delighted to appoint Andy Reynolds Smith and ChrisOShea.
Inaddition, after the retirement from the Board of David Challen I took the opportunity for the Nomination Committee to review the composition and balance of skills of the Board and to plan for succession in view of the Companys strategic aims.
Thereview informed our search for a new non-executive director and I was delighted that Mark Seligman was appointed to the Board in May2016.
This report sets out details of these director appointments and their induction into the Company.
Meeting attendance Committee membership The Committee meets periodically, as and when required.
During The attendance record of the members of the Committee was: the financial year the members of the Committee were: Sir George Attendance Buckley Chairman, Bruno Angelici, David Challen until November Sir George Buckley Chairman 3 3 2015, Tanya Fratto, Anne Quinn, Bill Seeger, Sir Kevin Tebbit and Bruno Angelici 3 3 Mark Seligman from his appointment in May 2016.
Tanya Fratto 2 3 The Chief Executive is normally invited to attend the Nomination Anne Quinn 2 3 Committee.
The HR Director, the Director of Talent and the Director Bill Seeger 3 3 of Reward have also attended these meetings in order to advise the Mark Seligman appointed 16 May 2016 1 1 Committee.
External advisers may also be invited by the Committee Sir Kevin Tebbit 3 3 to aid its deliberations.
David Challen retired 17 November 2015 1 1 Role and responsibilities Tanya Fratto and Anne Quinn were unable to attend a meeting called at short notice, The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes due to prior commitments recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as directors of the Company and as Company Secretary and their removal or retirement, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nomination Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the nonexecutive directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Committee also has responsibility for the annual review of the talent pipeline for senior management roles.
The Chairman and the rest of the Board continue to support Lord Davies aspiration for female board representation, but this presents a particular challenge for a small board.
The Nomination Committee and the Board remain committed to ensuring diversity is included within the remit for appointments at all levels in the Company, but do not think it is appropriate to set specific Group-wide targets or objectives at this stage.
Further information on diversity is provided in the Strategic Report.
The Committee has access to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, asit deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of external search consultants, where appropriate.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and effectiveness and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The annual review of the Committees terms of reference was conducted in July 2016 and certain changes were approved with effect from 1 August 2016.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 91 Corporate governance statement Continued Committee activities during 2016 During the year, the Committee conducted its annual review of Chris OShea and Andy Reynolds Smith were appointed as senior management and succession plans with a view to ensuring executive directors of the Company, on 18 and 25 September 2015, astrong and robust plan exists in all parts of the Group.
respectively, successfully concluding the searches, instigated by the In July 2016 the Committee considered the appointment and Committee during the previous financial year and run in conjunction re-appointment of certain members of the Audit, Remuneration and with Egon Zehnder in Andy Reynolds Smiths case and Inzito Nomination Committees and the appointment of the Chairs of those inChris OSheas case and interview process.
committees and recommended the appointment and reappointment David Challen retired from the Board on 17 November 2015, of members and Chairs as set out in more detail in the relevant after11years service.
The Nomination Committee carried out a sections of this Statement.
review of the skills and experience of the Board and embarked upon Also in July 2016 the Committee carefully assessed the a search for a new non-executive director.
The Committee appointed independence of each of the non-executive directors and concluded Lygon, an independent search firm with no other connections with that all of them were independent notwithstanding in the case the Company, to carry out the search.
The Nomination Committee of SirKevin Tebbit, the Senior Independent Director, that he had worked with Lygon to produce a detailed specification for the served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Committee and role including the capabilities and attributes which were either the Board each considered the matter carefully and decided that required or desirable.
These included the benefits to the Board SirKevin continues to demonstrate the qualities of independence ofdiversity in its widest sense gender, nationality, age, experience, and judgement in carrying out his role, supporting the executive and background and the particular skills which would benefit the directors and senior management in an objective manner.
Company as a multi-industry company operating in a global market.
Inaddition, based on the recommendation of the Nomination From the candidates produced by the search, Mark Seligman Committee, the Board resolved that Sir Kevin should continue was selected.
He agreed to the appointment as a non-executive asSenior IndependentDirector.
director and duly joined the Board and its Audit, Nomination andRemuneration Committees on 16 May 2016.
David Challens retirement also created a vacancy in the position of Senior Independent Director.
After due consideration, the Committee recommended to the Board that the role should be offered to Sir Kevin Tebbit.
The Board concurred and Sir Kevin accepted the position with effect from 17 November 2015.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that new directors have a thorough and appropriate induction programmes when joining the Companys board of directors.
Each of the directors who were appointed during the financial year received acomprehensive induction data reading room and hard copy data pack, containing detailed information on the Company and its business and on the proceedings of the Board and its committees.
Each of these inductions was based on the individual directors requirements and included meetings with Board members, divisional presidents, functional heads and other relevant employees and external advisers.
Mark Seligman has visited some Smiths sites in order to gain a deeper understanding of the Groups business operations and these visits are ongoing.
Andy Reynolds Smith andChris OShea both received comprehensive on-boarding whenthey joined and they met with the Companys largest investors and spent several weeks visiting Smiths sites around the world, meeting employees at all levels of the organisation, as well as senior personnel and board members.
Andy Reynolds Smith met with key customers and suppliers and also conducted town hall meetings at sites that he visited where he also listened to feedback from various parts of the organisation.
Upon his appointment as Senior Independent Director Sir Kevin Tebbit received some additional focused training from the Companys external legal counsel.
92 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Remuneration Committee Anne Quinn, CBE Introduction from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Chair of the Remuneration Committee The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to make recommendations to the Board on the Companys remuneration framework, giving full consideration to the matters set out in the Code.
The Committee also agrees with the Board the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and senior management.
The Committee sets the remuneration for these individuals within the agreed policy having regard to a number of factors, including their performance, remuneration across the Company and market positioning.
The Committee takes note of the policies and trends in remuneration across the whole Group in relation to all levels of employees.
Further information about the activities and focus of the Remuneration Committee during the year is set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Meeting attendance Committee membership The members of the Committee during the financial year were: The attendance record of the members of the Committee was: AnneQuinn Chair of the Committee, Bruno Angelici, Sir George Attendance Buckley, David Challen until his retirement in November 2015, Anne Quinn Chair 5 5 Tanya Fratto, Bill Seeger, Sir Kevin Tebbit and Mark Seligman Sir George Buckley 5 5 fromhis appointment in May 2016.
Bruno Angelici 5 5 The Chief Executive is normally invited to attend Remuneration Tanya Fratto 5 5 Committee meetings except when his own remuneration is under Bill Seeger 5 5 discussion.
The HR Director, the Director of Reward and Kepler Mark Seligman appointed 16 May 2016 2 2 Associates, the external remuneration adviser, have also attended Sir Kevin Tebbit 5 5 meetings in order to advise the Committee, as and when required.
David Challen retired 17 November 2015 1 1 The Committees activities are further described in the following Directors remuneration report.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The latest annual review of theCommittees terms of reference was conducted in July 2016.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 93
