Brian Wallace Chairman, Nomination Committee Members of the Nomination Committee NOMINATION B Wallace Chair L Ginsberg COMMITTEE P Ventress V Murria REPORT Attendance of the Nomination Committee Name Committee attendance 2016 Dear shareholder, B Wallace I am pleased to present the Companys first report on the activities of L Ginsberg theNomination Committee the Committee for the year to 31 July 2016.
P Ventress TheCommittee was established as part of the governance framework adopted by the Company prior to the initial public offering of its shares V Murria onthe premium segment of the London Stock Exchange in November 2015 Total meetings held the IPO.
Attended Did not attend In preparation for the IPO process, the membership of the Board was refreshed and a number of Committees were established.
The Committee believes that these appointments and the appointment of the Independent Non-Executive Directors have provided additional financial, strategic, technical and industry skills and expertise to both the Board and its Committees.
During the year, the Committee has been predominantly focused on succession planning and talent management for the Board and the Company as a whole.
Brian Wallace Chairman of the Nomination Committee 40 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Committee composition and meeting attendance The Committees main focus since IPO has been to review the Companys The Committee comprises the Chairman and all the Non-Executive Directors.
succession planning and talent management.
In May 2016, the Committee In the last year, the Committee has met twice and attendance at those meetings undertook an extensive succession planning exercise for the Executive Directors is detailed on page 40.
Biographies of each member are shown on pages 30 and key employees of the Company.
Following this, the Committee considered and 31. and evaluated the structure of succession within the Company and identified those areas which required additional training and development of staff to The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and attends all ensure adequate long-term succession.
The Company is dedicated to investing meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may vary from time in its employees to ensure talented staff are able to flourish within their roles totime and, upon invitation from the Committee, include the Executive and progress throughout the Company.
Directors and key senior employees.
The Committee also noted that the Board and Committees had been in place for a short period of time since the Companys IPO and that, for the present Role and responsibilities time, their structure, size and composition remained suitable and adequate The Committee is responsible for evaluating the structure, size and composition for the proper running of the Company.
of the Board and its Committees, and gives consideration totheskills, knowledge, experience and diversity within each.
The results ofthe annual Board and Committee evaluation Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of Due to the relatively short period of time between IPO and the Companys theBoard will be taken into consideration by the Committee in making this year end and since the Board composition was significantly updated in the assessment.
The Committee also considers succession planning of Directors months immediately prior to IPO the Committee has not yet undertaken a and other senior managers in detail.
formal evaluation process of the Board and its Committees.
A formal and The Committee is asked to lead, on behalf of the Board, the selection process rigorous evaluation will be undertaken in the year to 31 July 2017. for new Board appointments as and when they arise and to make recommendations in respect of such appointments.
When considering appointments to the Directors election and re-election Board, the Committee will consider each candidates time commitments and As stated above, the Company has decided, in accordance with the Code, any potential conflicts of interest.
that each Director will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders at At present, the Board has not set any specific aspirations in respect of gender the AGM.
The Committee considers that the performance of each of the diversity, although it believes that refreshment of the Board should take Directors standing for re-election at the 2016 AGM continues to be effective account of diversity in all its forms.
Details of diversity within our workforce, and demonstrates commitment to their roles.
The biographical details of the including at Board and executive management level, can be found on page 27. current Directors can be found on pages 30 to 31.
The time required from Non-Executive Directors will be reviewed by the Committee The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors, which on an annual basis.
The annual Board performance evaluation will also be include their expected time commitment, are available for inspection at the used to assess whether the Non-Executive Directors are spending sufficient Companys registered office.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed foran time to fulfil their duties.
initial term of three years, subject to re-election at each AGM, and the Committee will make a recommendation to the Board for the reappointment of any In accordance with the Code, each Director will be subject to annual re-election Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office, at each AGM.
To this end, the Committee evaluates the best interests of the inparticular for any term beyond six years.
Company as a whole and recommends the elections or re-elections to the Board, where considered appropriate.
Signed on behalf of the Nomination Committee The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
Main activities Brian Wallace Prior to the Companys IPO, the Board appointed an executive search consultant, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Spencer Stuart, with whom the Company has no other connection, to identify 19 October 2016 candidates to fill three Non-Executive Board vacancies.
Following a rigorous selection process, Lee Ginsberg, Peter Ventress and Vin Murria were appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41
