Board of Directors MAKING IT WORK WITH OUR TEAM 2016 was another year of evolution for the Softcat Board, which now has a structure and membership fully compliant with the Code.
BRIAN WALLACE MARTIN HELLAWELL GRAHAM CHARLTON NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AND CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 24 March 2006 19 March 2015 8 May 2013 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Disclosure Committee Disclosure Committee Nomination Committee Chair, Martin joined Softcat in 2006 as Managing Director Graham joined Softcat in January 2015.
Disclosure Committee and was appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2014.
Previously, he spent four years as finance Previously, Martin spent 13 years at Computacenter plc, directorat comparethemarket.
com a trading Brian joined Softcat in May 2013 as a Non-Executive where he was responsible forthe marketing function, name of BISLLimited.
Prior to that, Graham Director and was appointed Chairman in July 2014. ran Computacenters French subsidiary and led spentone year asfinance director at See Tickets He is also chairman of Travelodge and anon-executive acquisitions in the United Kingdom, Belgium and the trading name of See Group Limited and over director of FirstGroup plc.
He was part of Computacenters initial five years in various roles, including group financial executive board positions with a number of FTSE public offering team in 1998, ran operations, chaired accountant, finance manager and finance director, 100 and FTSE 250 companies, most recently as Computacenters international joint venture, ICG, decision analytics, at Experian Ltd. Graham is group finance director of Ladbrokes plc.
Prior to and was chief operating officer of the dot-com aChartered Accountant and began his career rejoining Ladbrokes, he was group finance director spin-off Biomni Limited.
Martin has also worked for withAndersen.
Graham earned an MA in natural anddeputy chief executive of Hilton Group plc.
Specialist Computer Centres PLC and for Canalys.
com sciences from Kings College, the University AChartered Accountant, he began his career at Limited as an independent consultant.
Price Waterhouse and went on to perform senior his career atMiles 33, asoftware solutions provider finance roles at Schlumberger, APV and Geest.
Martin earned a BA Healso previously served as a non-executive director Hons in management studies marketing and at Scottish and Newcastle plc, Hays plc, Camelot FrenchfromLancaster University.
Entertainments plc and the Miller Group.
30 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance LEE GINSBERG PETER VENTRESS VIN MURRIA SENIOR INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 16 September 2015 1 October 2015 3 November 2015 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Audit Committee Chair, Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee  Chair  Lee joined Softcat in September 2015.
He is also Peter joined Softcat in October 2015.
He is also Vin joined Softcat in November 2015.
She is also a anon-executive director at Mothercare plc and deputy chairman and senior independent director non-executive director at Zoopla Property Group Trinity Mirror plc, a non-executive director and of Galliford Try plc, a non-executive director of Plc, and a partner at Elderstreet Investments.
Prior senior independent director at On The Beach Premier Farnell plc and a director of BBA Aviation to joining Softcat, Vin spent seven years as the Group plc, a deputy chairman and senior independent plc.
Prior to joining Softcat he spent five years as founder and chief executive officer at Advanced director at Patisserie Valerie Holdings plc and chief executive officer of Berendsen plc, held several Computer Software plc prior to its acquisition by non-executive chairman at Oriole Restaurants senior executive roles, including international Vista Equity Partners in 2015, and five years as Limited.
Prior to joining Softcat, he spent ten years president, at Staples Inc. held several senior executive chief executive officer of Computer Software as chief financial officer of Dominos Pizza Group roles, including chief executive officer, at Corporate Group plc prior to its acquisition by HG Capital plc and held the post of group finance director at Express NV prior to its acquisition byStaples Inc. and then Hellman & Friedman in 2007.
Previously, Health Club Holdings Limited, formerly Holmes and held a number of other general management Vin was also a non-executive director at Chime Place plc, where he also served for 18months as positions across a number of different businesses Communications plc, Greenko plc and chief deputy chief executive.
Lee earned a Bachelor of in a variety of industries.
Peter earned an MA operating officer at Kewill Systems plc.
Accounting Hons from UNISA University of South inmodern history and modern languages from Named Entrepreneur of the Year in 2014 at the Africa and qualified as a Chartered Accountant at theUniversity of Oxford andan MBA from the Grant Thornton Quoted Company Awards and Price Waterhouse.
Woman of the Year at the 2012 Cisco Everywoman Technology Awards, Vin is a successful entrepreneur with a strong background in technology-based businesses.
Vin holds a Bachelor Hons in computer science and has also completed anMBA and a DBA.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31
