OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee is chaired by Peter Gyenes, and its other members are Paul Walker, Sandra Bergeron and Edwin Gillis, who are independent Non-Executive Directors, and Roy Mackenzie, who is a Non-Executive Director.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition and make-up of the Board and any Committees of the Board.
It is also responsible for periodically reviewing the Boards structure and identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors or Committee members as the need may arise.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience as well as the size, structure and composition of the Board and Committees of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and Committee members and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
A copy of the Committee terms of reference is available on the Companys website.
MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR The Committee met once in the period from listing to the financial year end.
At that meeting the Committee: reviewed the terms of reference: requested a review of the succession plans for senior management be undertaken to ensure a pipeline of talent was maintained for the continued success of the Company: considered the annual time requirement of Non-Executive Directors: reviewed the composition of the Board and its Committees, including the Chairmanship of each Committee: and recommended a draft Diversity Policy to the Board for approval.
PROCESS FOR BOARD APPOINTMENTS When the Company decides to appoint a Non-Executive Director: The Committee Chairman, or search consultants if engaged, will submit a short-list of candidates to members of the Committee and the Chief Executive Officer for them to review and enable them to suggest other candidates.
The Committee Chairman, one other Committee member and the Chief Executive Officer will then meet short-listed candidates selected by the Committee.
If the Chairman wishes to proceed with the selection process, the candidate will then be invited to meet all members of the Committee.
After meeting the candidate the Committee will decide whether to recommend the candidate to the Board for appointment.
When the Company decides to appoint an Executive Director: The Committee Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer or, if engaged, search consultants, will submit a short-list of one or more candidates to the Committee.
Some or all of the Committee members will then meet the candidates selected for interview.
The Committees assessments will be reviewed with the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, following which a candidate may be recommended to the Board for appointment.
DIVERSITY At the meeting held in November 2015 the Committee requested that the Companys Diversity Policy be formally codified, and it was subsequently approved by the Board in February 2016.
The policy acknowledges the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, for the Group and the role the Committee will perform in increasing diversity throughout the Group.
The Board has established the following measurable objectives for achieving diversity on the Board: All Board appointments will be made on merit, in the context of the skills, knowledge and experience that are needed for the Board to be effective.
Ensure long lists of potential Non-Executive Directors include diverse candidates of appropriate merit.
Encourage the emergence of female candidates and candidates of diverse backgrounds among the non-board senior management talent pool.
Only engage executive search firms who have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
Progress against all of these objectives is ongoing and the Committee will report more fully in the next Annual Report.
Peter Gyenes Nomination Committee Chairman 25 May 2016
