40 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Dear Shareholder At Sophos, all our stakeholders are important to us.
The design and operation of a robust governance structure appropriate for a group of Sophos scale and ambition is critical to meeting their needs.
Our approach to governance is based on the concept that good corporate governance enhances long-term shareholder value and sets the culture, ethics and values for the rest of the Group.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report and Accounts and it has considered and endorsed the arrangements for their preparation.
The Directors confirm the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group's position and performance, business model and strategy.
Peter Gyenes Non-Executive Chairman UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE This report, which is available on the Companys website, explains the key features of the Companys governance structure to provide a greater understanding of how the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, published in September 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, have been applied and to highlight areas of focus during the period.
The Code can be found on the FRCs website at at www.
The Company was incorporated on 26 May 2015 and achieved premium listing on the London Stock Exchange on 1 July 2015.
In the one month period prior to listing work was done by the Company to ensure it had appropriate governance structures and policies in place so as to comply with the Code before the Companys shares were admitted to trading.
Accordingly, the corporate governance statement and the reports of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration, and Nomination Committees explain how the provisions and principles of the FCA Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Code have been applied in the period from listing to 31 March 2016.
GOVERNANCE CHANGES IN PREPARATION FOR LISTED STATUS In preparation for the Companys listing, it was recognised that although the internal governance processes were fit for purpose, additional work was required to enhance these processes to meet the obligations of being a company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Accordingly, a number of work streams were put in place to ensure that the Companys operations as a listed company complied with relevant regulation and guidance.
Work undertaken included the creation and embedding of the necessary policies and procedures to meet the various corporate governance and regulatory requirements applicable to the Company post-listing.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE In the period from listing to 31 March 2016 the Company complied with all the principles and provisions of the Code, except as set out below: Code provision B.
1.2 recommends that at least half the Board of Directors of a UK-listed company, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Board considers that the Company does not comply with the requirements of the Code in this respect, however the Company intends to move towards compliance with this requirement within a reasonable period of time.
In furtherance of this goal, the Board recently commenced a process to identify and recruit one or more potential candidates to serve as Non-Executive Directors.
The Board currently expects to have at least one new Independent Non-Executive Director appointed to the Board before 31 December 2016: although, there can be no assurance that suitable candidates will be identified, that they will accept the appointment, or that the appointment can be completed within the Boards desired timeline.
The Directors who are not considered independent are: Peter Gyenes in accordance with the Code the test of independence is not appropriate for a Chairman following their appointment.
Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray due to the executive nature of their roles they are not considered to be independent.
Steve Munford was CEO of the Group between 2006 and 2012 and accordingly is not considered to be independent.
Salim Nathoo and Roy Mackenzie are shareholder appointed Directors and accordingly are not considered to be independent.
HOW THE BOARD WORKS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Board is responsible for the effective oversight of the Company.
It also agrees the strategic direction and governance structure that will help achieve the long-term success of the Company and deliver shareholder value.
The Board takes the lead in areas such as strategy, financial policy and making sure a sound system of internal control is maintained.
The Boards full responsibilities are set out in the schedule of matters reserved for the Board described below.
The Board delegates authority to its Committees to carry out certain tasks on its behalf, so that it can operate efficiently and give the right level of attention and consideration to relevant matters.
Responsibilities of the Board The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for its decision: specifically, the Board is responsible for: Guiding the Groups long-term strategic aims, leading to its approval of the Groups strategy and its budgetary and business plans Approval of significant investments and capital expenditure Approval of annual and half-year results Approval of the dividend policy, payment of the interim dividend and the recommendation of final dividends Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior management taking into account the recommendations of the Nomination Committee Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors and the senior management team taking into account the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee Board Focus During the Year Strategy: During FY16, the Board worked with management to identify and anticipate industry trends to ensure that the Companys strategy is designed to address these trends as well as other industry dynamics, such as the competitive landscape.
The Board also considered acquisition opportunities to advance the Companys strategy.
During FY16, the Board approved two acquisitions.
Financials: During FY16, the Board reviewed the Company's operating results and financial statements with management and the Company's external auditors.
The Board also reviewed and approved the operating plan for the fiscal year.
The Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange: In anticipation of the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in FY16, the Board undertook a review of the Companys governance structure, internal controls, compliance requirements, compensation arrangements and other aspects of the Companys operations that are relevant for a listed company.
Governance: As noted above, the Board undertook a comprehensive review of its governance structure in FY16.
As a result of this review, the Board considered and approved governance policies designed to ensure its compliance with the requirements applicable to a publicly listed company, including the Code.
Business performance: In FY16, the Board received and reviewed reports from management on the performance of the Companys business.
The Board engaged in discussions with management on various aspects of business performance, including business drivers, industry trends, risks, opportunities and the competitive landscape.
Board Committees In June 2015 the Board established the Audit and Risk Committee Chaired by Edwin Gillis to oversee financial reporting, internal control and the management of the risks the Company faces.
The Board also established a Nomination Committee chaired by Peter Gyenes to lead the process for appointments to the Board and a Remuneration Committee chaired by Paul Walker which has the responsibility of helping to develop and manage the Companys Remuneration Policy.
The various committee reports can be found on pages 45 to 65 and each committees full terms of reference are available on our website.
42 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Table of Attendance The table below summarises the attendance of the Directors and committee members at the scheduled Board and committee meetings held during the year: Board Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Peter Gyenes 6 5 3 3 1 1 Kris Hagerman 6 6 Nick Bray 6 6 Sandra Bergeron 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 Edwin Gillis 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 Salim Nathoo 6 5 Roy Mackenzie 6 6 1 Steve Munford 6 6 Paul Walker 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 The figures in the held column represent the number of meetings a Director was eligible to attend and the attended column represents the number of meetings attended by that Director.
Peter Gyenes is Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Edwin Gillis is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Paul Walker is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Board Composition, Qualification and Experience The composition, experience and balance of skills on the Board are periodically reviewed to ensure that there is the right mix on the Board and its Committees and they are working effectively.
There are currently nine Directors on the Board, which comprises a Non-Executive Chairman who, for the purposes of the Code was independent on appointment, two Executive Directors, three Independent NonExecutive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board not to be independent for the purpose of the Code.
The current members of the Board have a wide range of skills and experience.
The Board believes that a membership that combines detailed knowledge of the Groups operations, the technology industry and leading a company listed on the London Stock Exchange are crucial to the Board's ability to lead the Company successfully.
Key Board Roles Chairman Chief Executive Officer Leads the Board Leads the management team Promotes a high standard of corporate governance Develops proposals for the Board to consider Facilitates effective contributions by the Oversees implementation of all Board-approved actions Non-Executive Directors Supports the Chairman to ensure that appropriate governance Promotes a culture of openness and debate standards spread through the organisation Encourages constructive relations between Ensures that the Board is made aware of the employees' views Executive and Non-Executive Directors on relevant issues Interaction between the Chairman and Chief-Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Independent Director is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are separate with a distinct division of responsibilities.
The partnership between Kris Hagerman and Peter Gyenes is based on mutual trust and facilitated by regular contact between the two.
The separation of authority enhances independent oversight of the executive management by the Board and helps to ensure that no one individual on the Board has unfettered authority.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 The Role of Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Acts as intermediary between Directors when required Constructively challenges management proposals Works closely with the Chairman, acting as a sounding Help develop proposals on strategy board and providing support Have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, Is available to shareholders and other Non-Executives to removing Executive Directors address any concerns or issues they feel have not been adequately Have an integral role in succession planning dealt with through the usual channels of communication Non-Executive Director Independence The Board considers and reviews the independence of each Non-Executive Director on an annual basis as part of the Directors performance evaluation.
In carrying out the review, consideration is given to factors such as their character, judgement, commitment and performance on the Board and relevant committees and their ability to provide objective challenge to management.
The Board considers its Independent Non-Executive Directors bring strong judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The Code requires a company to state its reasons if it determines that a Director is independent in certain circumstances, including where a Director holds cross-directorships or participates in the Companys share option or performance related pay scheme.
As noted in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 65, Paul Walker participates in a restricted share arrangement.
Paul is also a Director of Epicor Software Corporation of which Peter Gyenes and Roy Mackenzie are also Directors.
Notwithstanding these arrangements, the Board considers Paul to be independent in character and judgement.
This is evidenced by the valuable contributions he makes at Board and Committee meetings, and in particular, the knowledge and experience he brings to his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Additionally, Peter Gyenes is a Director of Carbonite Inc. of which Steve Munford is also a Director.
The Code provides that the Chairman of a company should be independent on appointment.
The Board considers that Peter Gyenes, the Chairman, was independent upon appointment and that he continues to be independent notwithstanding the cross-directorships described above.
Appointment and Tenure All Non-Executive Directors serve on the basis of letters of appointment which are available for inspection upon request.
The letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment of Non-Executive Directors who, on appointment, undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year term and the continuation of their appointment is conditional on satisfactory performance and subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meetings.
Executive Directors serve on the basis of service agreements which are also available for inspection upon request.
Further details on the Executive Directors service agreements are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration, on page 58.
Director Induction and Training The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, is responsible for the induction of new Directors and ongoing development of all Directors.
As part of its preparation for the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Board received full, formal and tailored training to prepare the Board for service on a listed company Board.
New Directors will receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board designed to provide an understanding of the Groups business, governance and key stakeholders.
The induction process may include provision of an induction pack, operational site visits, meetings with key individuals and the Companys advisors, and briefings on key business, legal and regulatory issues facing the Group.
As the business environment changes, it is important to ensure the Directors skills and knowledge are refreshed and updated regularly.
Accordingly, the Company Secretary ensures that updates on corporate governance, regulatory and technical matters are provided to Directors at Board meetings and by means of communications or special sessions in between formal Board meetings.
In this way, Directors keep their skills and knowledge relevant so as to enable them to continue to fulfil their duties effectively.
Information and Support Available to Directors All Board Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who advises them on Board and governance matters.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary work together to ensure that Board papers are clear, accurate, delivered in a timely manner to Directors, and of sufficient quality to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
As well as the support of the Company Secretary, there is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary or advisable.
Director Election Following recommendations from the Nomination Committee, taking into account the results of the Board's performance evaluation process, the Board considers that all Directors continue to be effective, committed to their roles and have sufficient time available to perform their duties.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and provision B.
7.1 of the Code all Directors will be subject to annual re-election.
All Directors will seek election at the Companys first AGM in 2016 as set out in the Notice of AGM.
44 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Directors Conflicts of Interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have, or may have, interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Directors.
This includes potential conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position with another company.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise such potential conflicts, and there is in place a procedure to deal with any actual or potential conflict of interest.
The Board deals with each appointment on its individual merit and takes into consideration all the circumstances.
Salim Nathoo is a partner at Apax Partners LLP and Roy Mackenzie is a partner at Apax Partners, LP.
Apax Partners, LP is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apax Partners LLP.
Both Apax Partners, LP and Apax Partners LLP are advisors of the Apax Funds, which wholly own Pentagon Lock Sarl, Pentagon Lock 6-A Sarl, Pentagon Lock 7-A Sarl and Pentagon Lock US Sarl collectively Apax.
Following the admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange Apax controlled 35.2 percent of the voting rights in the Company and at 31 March 2016 controlled 22.3 percent of the voting rights in the Company.
In April 2016 the Board was notified that Steve Munford had been appointed a Director at Utimaco Inc, a subsidiary of Utimaco GmbH which supplies professional cybersecurity solutions.
This appointment has been authorised by the Board and has been included in the conflicts register.
Board Evaluation and Effectiveness The Board and its Committee were formed upon IPO in June 2015 and in January 2016 an internal evaluation commenced and was conducted by the Company Secretary under the direction of the Senior Independent Director.
The Company Secretary had distributed a tailored, high level questionnaire for the Directors completion.
The questionnaire was structured to provide Directors with an opportunity to express their views about: the performance of the Board and its Committees, including how Directors work together as a whole: the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Directors: individual performance, particularly considering whether each Director continues to make an effective contribution.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with Nick Bray, the Group's Chief Financial Officer.
He ensures that there is effective communication with shareholders and is responsible for ensuring that the Board understands the views of shareholders.
Mr Bray is supported by the Group's corporate brokers with whom he is in regular dialogue.
As a part of a comprehensive investor relations programme, formal meetings with investors are scheduled to discuss the Groups interim and final results.
In the intervening periods, the Company continues its dialogue with the investor community by meeting key investor representatives and holding investor roadshows.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys first Annual General Meeting AGM will take place at 15:00 on 14 September 2016 at The Pentagon, Abingdon Science Park, Abingdon, OX14 3YP.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The notice of the AGM can be found on our website and in a booklet which is being mailed out at the same time as this Report.
The Notice of AGM sets out the business of the meeting and an explanatory note on all proposed resolutions.
Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
The AGM is the Companys principal forum for communication with private shareholders.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Audit and Risk Committee report explains the process carried out for the assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems on page 50.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR KPMG have expressed their willingness to continue as the Companys auditor.
As outlined in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 51, resolutions proposing their reappointment and to authorise the Audit and Risk Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
By order of the Board D Ari Buchler Company Secretary 25 May 2016
