Statement of corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Prior to the IPO, the Board worked to ensure that it had established a framework The Board is committed to of best practice which would enable the Company to operate atthe highest standards of corporate governance.
In doing so, the Board hascontinued to effective and meaningful take guidance from the Financial Reporting Councils UKCorporate Governance communication with Code 2014 the Code and, with the following exceptions, has maintained compliance with each of its requirements.
6.1 The board should state in the annual report how performance Brian Wallace, Chairman evaluation of the board, its committees and its individual directors has been conducted.
A copy of the Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils ii Provision B.
6.3 The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent website www.
director, should be responsible for performance evaluation of the chairman, taking into account the views of executive directors.
Board structure and roles Regarding the above provisions B.
6.3, due to the short timeframe The varying roles of Board members, including the Chairman and the CEO between IPO and the year end itwas considered that it would be more andtheseparation of these two roles, the Non-Executive Directors and appropriate and worthwhile to assess the performance of the Board, its theSenior Independent Director, are outlined below, along with that of the Committees andthe Chairman after a full year of listing.
iii Provision E. 1.1 The chairman should ensure that the views of shareholders Chairman are communicated to the board as a whole.
The chairman should discuss The principal role of the Chairman is to lead the Board effectively and provide governance and strategy with major shareholders.
Non-executive directors direction and focus to its discussions through setting agendas and ensuring the should be offered the opportunity to attend scheduled meetings with requisite business, strategic and governance issues are covered throughout the major shareholders and should expect to attend meetings if requested year.
The Chairman is the guardian of the Boards decision-making processes bymajor shareholders.
The senior independent director should attend and promotes effective probity of issues through a culture of openness and sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their debate.
The Chairman was deemed independent upon appointment to this views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues position.
The Chairmans experience of the IT sector has been gained from and concerns of major shareholders.
his membership of the Softcat Board since 2013 and of public limited companies, both as an executive and non-executive director over many years, which has The Board is committed to effective and meaningful communication with enabled the Board to function efficiently and effectively throughout the year.
shareholders and the Chairman ensures the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board through the CEO and CFOs meetings with The Chairmans other significant commitments are indicated in his biography shareholders and through investor roadshows.
In addition, shareholders on page 30. areencouraged to attend the Companys AGM on 8 December 2016 Chief Executive Officer CEO andtheBoard welcomes any meetings with individual shareholders Martin Hellawell, who has spent over a decade running the Company, leads ifrequested.
Although no shareholders have requested any meetings the senior management team and develops and oversees the implementation todate, in the next twelve months, the Chairman intends to meet with of all Board-approved actions, the strategic direction of the Company and its shareholders where possible to discuss governance and strategy.
32 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Separation of Chairman and CEO roles The Company considers that each Non-Executive Director is independent as In compliance with the Code, the roles of Chairman and CEO are clearly outlined in the Code and is therefore able to exercise independent judgement.
distinguished and the duties of each were set out in the Companys Prospectus The Company recognises the benefits that it gains from having adiverse at IPO.
The Board recognises that sufficient separation between these positions workforce throughout the organisation including at Board level.
Diversity in its enhances the independence and objectivity of the Board and that no single many forms, including, but not limited to, the skills, industry experience, race, person has unfettered authority over the Company.
ethnicity and gender of the workforce continues to enable the Company to maintain its competitive advantage.
In preparation for the IPO, the Board was Non-Executive Directors refreshed to broaden the backgrounds of the Directors and ensure the Company Each Non-Executive Director of the Company is deemed independent by the benefited from the diversity of each member.
The Company now believes Board as considered against the criteria set out in provision B.
1.1 of the Code that the Board of Directors is well balanced, effective and capable of meeting and provides a crucial function in challenging the Boards decisions and its strategic and operational needs for the future and will continue to promote discussions in an unbiased and objective way.
The Non-Executive Directors its growth and success.
bring a wealth of experience, skills and knowledge to the Board from across the IT sector and a number of large listed companies.
During the year, the Whilst considering succession planning, the Board and the Nomination Committee Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive routinely review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Directors present, on two occasions.
The Nomination Committee will lead the process for Board appointments, through its assessment of candidates and recommendation Senior Independent Director SID tothe Board for any approval.
Further details are included in the Nomination Lee Ginsberg has been the Senior Independent Director of the Board since Committee Report on pages 40 to 41. hisappointment.
Lee receives updates from the Executive Directors on any issues raised by shareholders and receives briefings from the Company As the Board is committed to making appointments based on merit, it has Secretary on corporate governance issues which relate to investors.
In this decided not to impose a quota on the gender balance of the Board.
It does, role, he acts as an intermediary for the other Directors and welcomes any however, remain committed to ensuring that the Board and the senior management contact from shareholders on Company issues.
team reflect the diverse nature of its workforce and customerswhen considering appointments.
Company Secretary Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited has served as the Company A breakdown of the gender diversity of the Company, including total staff, Secretary since 19 October 2015 and is responsible for providing guidance senior managers and Directors can be found on page 27. tothe Board as a whole and to the Directors individually with regard to their duties, responsibilities and powers and ensuring the proper administration Board functioning ofthe proceedings and matters relating to the Board, the Company and the Role of the Board shareholders of the Company in accordance with applicable legislation The Board is responsible for the oversight of the Company through deciding andprocedures.
the strategic objectives and governance structure required to promote the long-term success of the Company and increase shareholder value.
The role The Board and each Director has unlimited access to the Company Secretary, of the Board is outlined in the Matters Reserved for the Board document who advises the Board and the Board Committees on relevant matters, which details those duties which are the sole responsibility of the Board of including compliance with the Companys policies and procedures, relevant Directors.
In line with best practice, certain authorities have been delegated legislation and regulation, including the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate to the Committees to undertake decisions and recommendations on the Boards Governance Code and other governance standards.
The Board is of the behalf.
Further information on the Committees of the Board can be found opinion that the Company Secretary is competent and has the requisite below and specifically in the Committee Reports on pages 36 to 44. qualifications and experience to effectively execute its duties.
Board programme Board composition and diversity The Chairman, with support from the Board, sets the agendas for Board A list of the Companys current Directors, including their biographies, can be meetings to ensure that appropriate regulatory compliance has been met and found on pages 30 to 31. the Companys strategic objectives for the year ahead are the central focus.
At IPO, the Board comprised three Independent Non-Executive Directors, twoExecutive Directors and the Chairman, who was independent on appointment.
Each Director has an extensive set of skills, experience andknowledge in anumber of relevant sectors and careers, which isofgreat value to theCompany.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 Statement of corporate governance continued The Company recognises the benefits that it gains from having a diverse workforce throughout the organisation including at Board level.
Brian Wallace, Chairman Board functioning continued Board and Committee meeting attendance Since IPO, the Directors have held five face-to-face Board meetings at a number of the Companys different offices across the country including a strategy meeting in February 2016.
In line with the Companys vision and ethos to be open and transparent and to engage fully with its employees, the Board has also heldquestion and answer sessions with and made presentations to staff at each office location visited.
The Company held three meetings of each of the Auditand Remuneration Committees and two meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The table below shows the Directors and Committee members who held the position during the year and Board and Committee attendance subsequent to the IPO.
Meetings attended since IPO Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Date of resignation Board Committee Committee Committee M J Hellawell B Wallace G L Charlton L Ginsberg P Ventress V Murria P D J Kelly 15 October 2015 C W Brown 15 October 2015 Attended Did not attend Committees of the Board Remuneration Committee In line with best practice recommendations, the Board established four The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining its Committees to which it has delegated authority to consider matters in detail responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including advising the Board on before ultimate approval by the Board.
The full terms of reference for each its overall Remuneration Policy.
It also undertakes to determine the individual Committee are available in the investor relations section of the Companys remuneration and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors.
Reports on the role, composition and activity TheCommittee comprises three Independent Non-Executive Directors undertaken during the year of each Committee, with the exception of the andistherefore fully compliant with the Code.
The Committee is chaired Disclosure Committee, are detailed on pages 36 to 44. byPeterVentress and more detail can be found in the Committee Report onpages 42 to 61.
Audit Committee Disclosure Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities withregard to ensuring appropriate and effective external and internal audit The Disclosure Committee was formed by the Board following the introduction and compliance arrangements, establishing suitable fraud prevention and of the Market Abuse Regulations in July 2016 and has responsibility for whistleblowing arrangements and ensuring that the Annual Report and identifying price sensitive information and determining on a timely basis Accounts are reviewed and scrutinised.
In accordance with the Code, each thedisclosure treatment of such information.
The Committee comprises the member of the Committee is an Independent Non-Executive Director and the Chairman and the Executive Directors and the Committee members present Committee has sufficient relevant and recent financial experience in the at a meeting will elect one member to chair the meeting.
The Committee did sector the Company operates in.
The Committee is chaired by Lee Ginsberg not meet prior to the year end.
and more detail can be found in the Committee Report on pages 36 to 39.
Directorate matters Nomination Committee Appointment and tenure The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities Each Non-Executive Director is appointed under the terms set out in their relating to the review of the size, composition and make-up of the Board and letter of appointment, including the expected time commitment required through leading the process for Board appointments to ensure an appropriate ofthem.
On appointment, each Non-Executive Director confirmed that they balance of skills, experience, availability, independence and knowledge of had sufficient time to devote to their duties as a Director of the Company.
The Committee comprises three Independent The appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman, who was registered office.
independent on appointment, and is therefore in compliance with the Code.
The Committee is chaired by Brian Wallace and more detail can be found in the Committee Report on pages 40 to 41.
34 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Board, Committee and individual Director evaluation The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, subject to earlier termination, including provision for early termination by either the The Board recognises the importance of a formal and rigorous evaluation Company or the Non-Executive Director on three months notice.
In accordance process to enable objective review of the functioning of the Board and its with the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, all Directors must Committees.
An internal evaluation shall be conducted annually and an retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders every three years: external provider shall be engaged to complete an external review every however, it is intended that the Directors will each retire and submit three years in line with the Code.
themselves for re-election by shareholders annually.
As outlined above, due to the short timeframe between IPO and the year end it Directors induction and training was considered that it would be more appropriate and worthwhile to assess The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, is responsible for the performance of the Board, its Committees and the Chairman after a full the induction of new Directors and the ongoing development of all Directors.
However, during the period, the Chairman has maintained The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings regular contact and dialogue with the Non-Executive Directors.
and briefings are arranged on issues relating to corporate governance and other areas of importance.
The Directors regularly have the opportunity to Shareholder engagement visit various Company offices around the country and meet members of the Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with the Chairman, CEO, CFO senior management team to fully understand the business, culture and ethos and SID.
Collectively, they ensure that there is effective, regular and clear of the Company.
communication with shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy.
In addition, they are responsible for ensuring that the Board understands The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory and governance matters by theviews of shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy.
the Company Secretary through presentations at Board meetings.
In addition, TheBoard is supported by the Companys corporate brokers with whom external advisers are also given the opportunity to present to the Board on weare in regular dialogue.
The CEO and CFO attend formal meetings with relevant matters.
Additional training is available on request, where appropriate, investors to discuss the Groups interim and final results.
During intervening so that Directors can update their skills and knowledge as applicable.
periods, the Company will continue its dialogue with the investor community Independent professional advice by meeting key investor representatives and holding investor roadshows.
All Directors may seek independent professional advice in connection with The Directors will be available at the Companys AGM to answer any queries their roles as Directors at the expense of the Company.
All Directors have and look forward to having the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company has provided both indemnities and directors and officers insurance to the Accountability Directors in connection with their duties and responsibilities.
Internal controls and procedures Director election re-election The Company has in place a comprehensive system of internal controls, designed Following recommendation from the Nomination Committee, the Board to ensure that risks are mitigated and that the Company is able to fulfil its considers that all Directors continue to contribute effectively, are committed objectives.
The Board has responsibility for reviewing and approving the to and play active roles in their appointment and have sufficient time available effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Company, including to perform their duties.
As set out in the Nomination Committee Report on financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management.
page41, and in accordance with the Code, all of the Directors will be submitting The Audit Committee, through authority delegated by the Board, oversees themselves for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
the activities of the Companys internal and external auditor.
The Committee Directors conflicts of interest reviews and approves any Company disclosures on internal controls and risk In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Companys management in addition to compliance, whistleblowing and fraud.
Articles of Association, the Board may authorise any matter that otherwise A review of the Companys risk management approach is further discussed may involve any of the Directors breaching his or her duty to avoid conflicts in the Audit Committee Report on page 38.
For detail on the management of interest.
The Board has adopted a procedure to address these requirements, and mitigation of each principal risk, see pages 24 and 25.
The Groups which includes the Directors completing detailed conflict of interest viability statement is detailed on page 67 of the Directors Report.
The matters disclosed in the questionnaires are reviewed also refer to pages 36 to 39 for further detail in relation to the Audit bythe Board following the Directors appointments and annually thereafter Committees role.
and, if considered appropriate, authorised in accordance with the Act and the Articles.
Brian Wallace Non-Executive Chairman 19 October 2016 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
