Lee Ginsberg Chairman, Audit Committee AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear shareholder, Members of the Audit Committee On 18 November 2015, the Company completed its successful initial public L Ginsberg Chair offering IPO and entered the FTSE 250 index of the London Stock Exchange in P Ventress March 2016.
As a result, the Board established an Audit Committee the Committee which includes each Independent Non-Executive Director as a member and V Murria is in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Since the IPO, the Committee has undertaken a review of the Companys relevant audit and risk framework and approved new policies and structures which help support Attendance of the Audit Committee the Company being newly listed.
Name Committee attendance 2016 The implementation of the EU Audit Directive and Regulation in the UK was L Ginsberg also considered and the Companys non-audit services policy accurately P Ventress reflects these requirements.
This is explained in more detail on page 39.
V Murria Total meetings held Attended Did not attend Lee Ginsberg Chairman of the Audit Committee 36 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Committee composition and meeting attendance making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment The composition of the Committee is in compliance with the Code, which of the external auditor, reviewing its terms of engagement including audit provides that all members should be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
fees, engagement for non-audit services, and monitoring theexternal The Committee held three meetings during the year and attendance is auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: disclosed on page 36. reviewing the scope of the external audit, its findings and the effectiveness of the audit process: and In line with the requirements of the Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, Lee Ginsberg, the Committee Chairman, has recent and reviewing the overall relationship with the external audit firm, including relevant financial experience through his previous employment in senior the provision of non-audit services, to ensure that independence and financial positions at large companies, including listed companies, and is objectivity are maintained.
The Board is also satisfied that the combined Further details on the Committees duties can be found in its terms of reference, knowledge and experience of its members within the Companys sector which are available on the Companys website, www.
enable the Committee to exercise its duties effectively.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
Main activities Other attendees at Committee meetings may differ from time to time and, Since the IPO, the Committee has been focused on the following: i monitoring upon invitation from the Committee, include Brian Wallace Chairman, the risk management framework, including the adoption of a risk register by MartinHellawell CEO, Graham Charlton CFO and other members of the the Company: ii approval of the external audit engagement, fees and 2016 senior management team.
The Committee will also invite representatives audit plan: iii the appointment of the internal auditor, review and approval from the internal auditor Grant Thornton LLP and the external auditor ofthe relevant internal audit areas for the year and approval of the internal Ernst& Young LLP.
audit engagement and fees for the 2016 17 financial year: iv considering and making recommendations to the Board relating to the Companys Half-Yearly Role and responsibilities Report, Annual Report and the financial statements: and v review and approval The Committee assists the Board with its responsibility regarding financial of the Committees terms of reference, as well as policies regarding risk reporting, internal controls and risk management systems, compliance, management, external auditor independence and non-audit services.
whistleblowing and fraud, and internal and external audit.
The Committees responsibilities include but are not limited to: The Committee also undertook a review of the Companys whistleblowing policy and procedures, the Anti-Bribery Policy and the Code of Conduct.
reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and announcements, including: a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained therein, assessing the basis on which the Company has been determined a going concern, assessing the principal risks facing the Company and the prospects of the Company when considering the viability statement reported to shareholders, and a judgement on whether the financial reports are fair, balanced and understandable: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures inthe financial reports: assessing the Companys internal control and risk management systems: overseeing and assessing the Companys management of all significant risks: reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys arrangements for its employees regarding possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters, fraud detecting procedures and bribery prevention systems and controls: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the overall risk management system: overseeing the Companys relationship with its external auditor: Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Audit Committee Report continued Since the IPO the Audit Committee has focused on monitoring the risk management framework and the appointment of the internal auditor.
Lee Ginsberg, Chairman of the Audit Committee Significant issues The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the annual financial statements are detailed on pages 77 to 82.
If applicable, further detail inthe notes to the financial statements relating to the below issues is referenced as indicated.
The Committee, through a process of consultation with both management and the external auditor, considered the following significant audit risks relating tothe Companys financial statements: Significant audit risks Steps taken by the Committee Inappropriate revenue recognition The Committee has reviewed the Companys revenue recognition policy and discussed in detail with management and members of the finance team the processes applied to accurately record revenue at period ends.
The Committee also receives detailed monthly reporting on business performance to include revenue recognition data and trends.
The Committee discusses the performance and data trends regularly with the CFO.
The Committee has concluded that the timing of recognition is in line with current IFRS requirements.
Rebates The Committee has taken steps to understand the nature and quantum of supplier rebates received by the Company.
The Committee receives management information on rebates accrued as part of monthly performance reporting and monitors trends against prior period results.
The Committee is satisfied in the Companys ability to accurately record rebates earned within the financial period.
Going concern and viability statement The Board retains full and effective control over the Company and is responsible for monitoring managements implementation of Board decisions and strategies.
At its meeting in March 2016 the Committee received a report prepared by The Board ensures that the Company complies with the relevant laws, regulations the Companys finance team which addressed the new viability statement and codes of business practice.
The Committee assists the Board, by routinely requirement.
This report enabled the Committee to evaluate a stress test reviewing and monitoring the risk management process and Company internal ofthe Companys three-year profit and loss, balance sheet and cash flow plan control systems.
against the impact of key risks selected from the risk register.
The strength of the Companys balance sheet was comfortably able to absorb the impact Internal audit of the stress test.
Accordingly, the Committee has considered and recommended to the Board the viability statement which seeks to examine the Companys During the period, the Committee determined that to ensure objective longer-term solvency and viability, and which is detailed on page 67.
It was andeffective accountability, this function would be outsourced.
Following a agreed that three years would be an appropriate timeframe on which to competitive tender, Grant Thornton LLP was appointed as the Companys base the long-term viability statement as it is in line with the strategic internal auditor.
The Committee identified the key internal audit areas and planning process undertaken by the Company and reflects the pace of agreed a two-year internal audit plan to include but not be limited to: change in the technology sector.
procure topay: accounts receivable: rebates: anti-bribery and fraud: and cyber and information security.
The internal audit function will be regularly Internal controls and risk management monitored and reviewed by the Committee in the context of the Companys overall risk management system.
The Board believes that effective risk management underpins the running ofa successful business and is integral to the objective of constantly adding External audit value to the Company.
It has adopted an integrated and effective risk management framework, which grades key risks by reference to their likelihood During the year, Ernst & Young LLP EY has acted as the Companys and potential impact.
Risks are divided into functional areas under the ownership external auditor and has been appointed since July 2013. of the executive leadership team.
Each member is responsible for the management The Committee is responsible for overseeing the external auditor on behalf of risks in their area, including the assessment of potential impact and of the Board, including approving the annual audit work plan and audit fee.
likelihood, and defining necessary actions and controls for implementation.
External auditor independence and effectiveness The Committee and the Board have a clear process for identifying, evaluating The Committee is committed to ensuring that the Company receives an and managing the significant risks faced for the year under review and up effective, objective and independent audit and is responsible for ensuring tothe date of the Annual Report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the this is delivered through an annual evaluation.
The Committee has reviewed Board and is in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor and Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and the considers that EY continues to possess the skills and experience required requirements of the Code.
tofulfil its duties effectively and efficiently.
The Committees review of the effectiveness of EY as the external auditor is based on discussions with the senior finance team, the robustness of the audit, the quality of reporting to the Audit Committee and reports published by the FRC.
38 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance CMA Order EY has confirmed that in its professional judgement it is independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity During the year, the Company has complied withthe CMA Order.
The work of of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
the Committee in discharging its responsibilities is explained in more detail above.
As part of the Committees assessment of the external auditor, separate Fair, balanced and understandable meetings have been held between the Non-Executive Directors and the The Committee recognises the importance of the Companys Annual Report external auditor, without management being present.
to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee has therefore reviewed Audit tender and audit partner rotation the Annual Report and the process for its preparation and considered it in light As a result of the UKs implementation of the EUs mandatory firm rotation of monthly management information and Board reports received during the requirements and the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit year.
As a result the Committee has recommended to the Board that it confirms Services Order CMA Order the Company is required to ensure that the the Annual Report and Accounts in its entirety is fair, balanced and understandable.
external auditors contract is put out to tender at least every ten years, with Signed on behalf of the Audit Committee the proviso that no single firm may serve as the Companys auditor for a period exceeding 20 years.
The Committee will consider the appropriate timing to conduct a formal tender process in accordance with these requirements while continuing to assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
Inaccordance with UK ethical standards which allow an additional two years Lee Ginsberg of flexibility if considered necessary to maintain audit quality, Karl Havers could Chairman of the Audit Committee serve until the financial year commencing 1 August 2017 as a key audit partner.
19 October 2016 Reappointment of auditor The Committee has considered the objectivity and independence of the auditor and has determined that it is satisfied with the service provided by EY.
Accordingly, it has recommended to the Board that EY is reappointed as the Companys external auditor and that a resolution is included in the 2016 Notice of AGM for consideration by shareholders.
Non-audit services During the year, the Committee approved a non-audit services policy which took into account the implementation of the EU Audit Directive and Regulation and the FRC Ethical Standards.
The policy recognises that in certain circumstances it may be appropriate and cost efficient to engage its external auditor to undertake non-audit services, whilst not compromising its independence orobjectivity.
The Committee considered and approved appropriate total annual monetary thresholds for non-audit services and determined appropriate approval systems and controls.
During the year, fees for the non-audit service work carried out by EY were 275% of the audit fee, reflecting the considerable services EY provided as reporting accountant in connection with the preparation of the prospectus on IPO.
The Company considered that hiring EY was in the best interests ofshareholders due to their expertise and experience in such services and their in-depth knowledge and understanding of the business.
In addition certain elements of the work were required to be carried out by the auditor.
To maintain theexternal auditors independence and objectivity, an independent partner was appointed to lead on these services.
Fees Refer to note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 83 for details of the remuneration of the auditor.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39
