46 GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present our first report on the role and activities of the Audit and Risk Committee following its formation in June 2015 in preparation for Initial Public Offering of the Company's shares.
MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee was chaired by me throughout the year, with Sandra Bergeron and Paul Walker being the other members of the Committee.
All members and the Chair are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
All of the members of the Committee have extensive experience of the technology industry and I am the Independent Non-Executive Director with recent, relevant, financial experience.
During the yearended 31 March 2016, the Committee met four times.
The table below summarises the attendance of members at committee meetings: Eligible to attend Attended Edwin Gillis 4 4 Sandra Bergeron 4 4 Paul Walker 4 4 Only members of the Committee have the right to attend meetings, though the Committee may invite others to attend if it is considered appropriate or necessary.
The external auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee on a regular basis.
ROLES AND ACTIVITIES The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements, including its annual and half-yearly reports, interim management statements, preliminary result announcements and any other formal announcements relating to its financial performance prior to release.
The Committee oversees the relationship between the Group and its external auditors and makes recommendations to the Board on their appointment.
In addition, the Committee monitors and reviews the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into account relevant legal, professional and regulatory requirements.
The terms of reference of the Committee also includes the following responsibilities: to review and challenge significant accounting and treasury policies, the clarity and completeness of disclosures in financial reports and significant estimates and judgements: review the findings of the audit with the external auditors: where requested by the Board, to review the content of the annual report and accounts and advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and review and assess the annual internal audit plan: to monitor and keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems, including a review of the Groups risk management framework: and to review the Groups policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud, its systems and controls for preventing bribery, its Code of Conduct and its policies for ensuring that the Group complies with relevant regulatory and legal requirements.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website at investors.
During the year-ended 31 March 2016 the Committee: reviewed and approved the year-end and interim results and accounts: reviewed and approved the quarterly trading statements issued during the year: met with the external auditors to review and approve the annual audit plan and receive their findings and reports of the annual audit and interim review: approved the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP EY as outsourced internal audit providers and the manner in which they would operate with the Group, including a direct reporting line to the Committee to ensure their independence is maintained: reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for the year as well as longer-term objectives and received the results of the work performed by internal audit: and received, reviewed and challenged the half-year and year-end accounting papers prepared by management covering significant accounting policies, significant transactions, judgemental areas, estimates, disclosures and going concern.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES The issues considered by the Committee that are deemed to be significant to the Group are set out below.
Revenue recognition The Group generates revenue from sales of subscriptions, hardware and the rendering of enhanced support or professional services in connection with the Groups Network, Enduser and Cloud-based products.
There is a risk therefore that revenue is inappropriately recognised if revenue is incorrectly apportioned to a product or service.
A detailed revenue recognition policy is in place and includes rules for applying fair value to components of multiple element arrangements and timing of recognition dependent upon the individual nature of the goods or services sold.
Management also provide to the Committee at half-year and year-end an accounting paper on revenue recognition and a commentary on the revenue recognised.
The Groups external auditors have reported to the Committee that they have reviewed the revenue recognition policy and processes as well as performing detailed testing of revenue recognition across the year and found revenue to be appropriately accounted for.
As a result of the above and after providing appropriate challenge the Committee has concluded that the revenue recognition for the Group is appropriate.
Goodwill and intangibles carrying value At 31 March 2016, the Group had on its balance sheet goodwill of $716.1 million and intangibles of $40.5 million that has primarily arisen as a consequence of acquisitions.
Management perform impairment reviews annually, or more frequently if there is an indication of impairment, based on the Groups Cash-Generating Units CGUs.
The cash flow forecasts used for each CGU are based on the latest Board-approved long-term forecasts with an assumed long-term growth rate after the five year period.
Management prepare an accounting paper for review by the Committee that details the methodology applied, key assumptions used and the impact of sensitivity analysis.
Having considered the impairment reviews performed, the Committee is satisfied that the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles at 31 March 2016 is appropriate.
Reporting requirements and presentation Following the Initial Public Offering of the Company's shares in July 2015, a number of disclosure and regulatory requirements became relevant for the first time in this Annual Report as the Company transitioned into life as a public company.
In addition the Group makes use of certain non-GAAP measures and discloses certain items separately within the consolidated statement of profit or loss as exceptional items which, in the opinion of the Directors, enables a better understanding of the performance of the Group.
The use of these measures and disclosures is judgemental in nature The Committee has received papers during the year from management and advisors highlighting key new disclosure requirements and has discussed with both management and advisors the use of non-GAAP measures and the classification of certain income statement items as exceptional or underlying.
The Committee has also reviewed the disclosures made in this annual report and has discussed them with the external auditors: so as to ensure that it is comfortable with the content and presentation made in the annual report.
48 GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK ENVIRONMENT Whilst the Board is ultimately responsible for the establishment, monitoring and review of effectiveness of internal control systems throughout the Group, each of the individual functional leaders drive the process through which risks and uncertainties are identified.
The Board recognises that rigorous internal control systems are critical to managing the risks in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board further acknowledges that these systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk in the Group.
The formal process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group is overseen by the Risk and Compliance Committee, in association with the work performed by the Internal Audit function.
The Risk and Compliance Committee have designed the risk framework in order to capture and evaluate control weaknesses and risks facing the business.
Where the Board defines an identified risk as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to rectify or mitigate as appropriate.
The aforementioned functions provide additional assurance to the Audit and Risk Committee who have ultimate responsibility for the oversight and review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls.
The external auditors provide a supplementary, independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are regularly reported to both the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.
Key elements of the control environment are: annual budgets and strategic plans prepared for all business units: monitoring of performance against budget and forecast with reporting to the Board on a regular basis: monthly review of detailed key performance indicators: all contracts are reviewed at a level of detail appropriate to the size and complexity of the contract: timely reconciliations are performed for all significant balance sheet accounts: clearly defined organisational structure and authorisation lines: a Risk and Compliance Committee formed during the financial year, reviews key business processes, controls and their effectiveness, as well as identifying, assessing and managing significant control issues: and the Audit and Risk Committee, which approves audit plans and assesses the overall appropriateness of the Groups internal control environment.
The preparation and issue of financial reports is managed by the Group Finance department, as delegated by the Board.
The Groups financial reporting process is controlled using the Group accounting policies and reporting systems.
The Group Finance department supports all reporting entities with guidance on the preparation of financial information.
In the current year, this process was supported by the Financial Control and Group & Commercial Finance functions.
Each legal entity has a Finance Director or Controller who has responsibility and accountability for providing information which is in accordance with agreed policies.
The financial information for each entity is subject to a review at reporting entity and Group level by the Chief Financial Officer alongside the Vice Presidents of both Financial Control and Group & Commercial Finance.
The Annual Report is reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee in advance of presentation to the Board for approval.
Additionally, during the current year, the Finance Director or Controller of each reporting entity completed a quarterly Financial Reporting Review Questionnaire, which was used to identify control strengths and weaknesses across all financial areas with any weaknesses being subsequently addressed.
The Group also maintains a Consolidated Risk Register which sets out the nature and extent of the significant risks facing the Group.
Each of the risks is prioritised according to likelihood and impact and the register ensures that all risks identified are either mitigated or managed by an appropriate owner.
The Directors, through the use of appropriate procedures, systems and the employment of competent personnel, have ensured that measures are in place to secure compliance with the Companys obligation to keep adequate accounting records.
The accounting records are kept at the registered office of the Company.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 HOW WE MANAGE RISK To enhance effective governance and risk management oversight, the Group has, in this financial year, established an additional layer of risk management in a Risk and Compliance Committee.
This Committee of senior leaders is authorised by the Board to provide an additional level of assurance to the Audit and Risk Committee in overseeing risk management and internal control activities.
It also provides the business with a framework for risk management, upward reporting of significant risks and policies and procedures.
On a quarterly basis, the Risk and Compliance Committee reviews the status on risk exposures and risk management throughout the business within the pre-agreed risk management framework.
The risk management framework is designed to identify, evaluate, analyse and mitigate or manage risks appropriate to the achievement of the business strategy.
Identify Risk Analyse & Re-evaluate Management evaluate Process Develop & implement Risk Management Plan The Group takes a two-pronged approach to identifying risks: 1 a bottom-up approach at the business function level: where risks are managed at the operational level with an appropriately defined escalation process in place for those risks rated as high: and 2 a top-down approach at the senior leadership team level: where the principal risks and uncertainties are identified and managed.
A series of risk identification approaches are used such as risk identification and horizon scanning workshops, interviews and inclusion of risk discussions into team meetings.
All identified risks are assessed against a pre-defined scoring matrix and prioritised accordingly.
Any risks identified in the bottom-up approach deemed to be rated as higher risk are escalated in line with pre-defined escalation procedures for further evaluation.
The Group's risk appetite is considered by the Board and evaluated to ensure appropriateness of risk management and mitigation.
50 GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Following the identification of risks, a risk management plan is developed and implemented: this is managed by the assigned risk owner with regular feedback to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Regular reporting of risk management ensures each risk is re-evaluated on a timely basis to ensure that all relevant risks are identified and managed appropriately and that the Board is focused on the principal risks identified.
Additionally, during the current year subsequent to the Initial Public Offering of the Companys shares, the Group has assessed the need for an Internal Audit function and has concluded that the size and complexity of the Group deems this to be necessary.
Accordingly, the Group has employed an externally appointed Internal Audit team.
They are responsible for the review and audit of controls within the business and report to management on the appropriateness and effectiveness of those controls.
The current year Internal Audit plan was developed through a review of formal risk assessments together with consideration of the Groups key business processes and functions that could be subject to audit.
A similar approach will be employed in relation to the Internal Audit plan for the coming year.
The principal objectives of the Internal Audit plan for both years are: to provide confidence that existing and emerging key risks are being managed effectively: and to confirm that controls over core business functions and processes are operating as intended.
During the current year, an audit report was issued by the Internal Audit function and reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.
Internal Audit recommendations are closely monitored and a summary of the status of the implementation of Internal Audit recommendations is made quarterly to the Audit and Risk Committee.
WHISTLE-BLOWING A whistleblowing policy is in place in the Group enabling employees to confidentially report matters of concern directly to Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives details of any matters raised.
INTERNAL AUDIT During the financial year, the Group appointed an outsourced Internal Audit function.
This function is provided by EY.
The Groups Chief Financial Officer provides oversight and co-ordination of Internal Audit with support from the Risk and Compliance Committee.
In order to ensure independence, the Internal Audit function has a direct reporting line to the Audit and Risk Committee and its Chairman.
The nature and scope of the Internal Audit plan, developed by EY, was approved by the Audit and Risk Committee, with any subsequent changes to the plan requiring further approval.
The results of the audits were assessed alongside responses from management.
Any outcomes graded as requiring improvement were considered in detail by the Audit and Risk Committee along with the appropriateness of mitigation plans to resolve the issues identified.
At each meeting, the Audit and Risk Committee received audit reports and updates from the Internal Auditors, in order to ascertain progress in completing the internal audit plan and to review results of the audits.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitored and reviewed the scope and results of the Internal Auditor's activities as well as its effectiveness during the financial year.
REVIEW OF EFFECTIVENESS The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, has reviewed and considered the effectiveness of the risk management and system of internal controls in operation across the Group.
The main objectives of the Groups internal control systems are: to ensure its aims and objectives are met: to ensure adherence to management policies: to ensure compliance with statutory requirements: to safeguard assets: and to ensure the relevance, reliability and integrity of information, so ensuring as far as possible the completeness and accuracy of records.
Any system of control can only ever provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that control weaknesses or irregularities do not exist, or that there is no risk of material errors, losses, fraud, or breaches of laws or regulations.
Accordingly, the Group is continually seeking to improve the effectiveness of its systems of internal control.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 The Audit and Risk Committee has concluded that the Groups risk management and system of internal controls is deemed effective.
This is informed by a number of sources: the audit work undertaken by the Internal Audit function during this financial year: reports issued by the Groups external auditors: and risk management procedures managed and overseen by the Risk and Compliance Committee.
A detailed review of the Groups management of each principal risk or uncertainty is explained on pages 30 to 33.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Audit and Risk Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the appointment and reappointment of the external auditors.
In making these recommendations, consideration is given to auditor effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any other factors that may impact the reappointment of the external auditors.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditors.
The Groups auditors, KPMG LLP, were appointed for the year-ended 31 March 2001 with the audit engagement partner rotation last occurring for the year-ended 31 March 2011.
As the Group listed during the current financial year, in accordance with Ethical Standard 3, the audit engagement partner may continue to serve for not more than two years after the listing occurred with a maximum term of seven years in total.
The Audit and Risk Committee is confident that the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors is not impaired in any way.
The Committee will continue to assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
In doing so, they will consider a formal tender process in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The external auditors may perform certain non-audit services for the Group, any such non-audit services require pre-approval by the Audit and Risk Committee and are only permitted to the extent allowed by relevant laws and regulations.
During the year-ended 31 March 2016 the non-audit services provided by KPMG primarily related to their role as reporting accountant for the Initial Public Offering of the Groups shares and as a result their non-audit fees exceeded their audit fees for the year.
Excluding fees associated with the Initial Public Offering, the non-audit fees were 47 percent of the audit and audit-related fees for the year compared to 27 percent for the year-ended 31 March 2015.
Except for services related to the Initial Public Offering the non-audit services provided primarily related to tax compliance activities.
Full details of auditor's remuneration is shown in note 9 to the Financial Statements.
REVIEW OF EFFECTIVENESS OF EXTERNAL AUDITORS An important role of the Committee is to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
In performing this assessment the Committee: reviewed the annual audit plan and considered the auditors performance against that plan along with any variations to it: met with the audit engagement partner to review the audit findings and responses received to questions raised by the Committee: held regular meetings with the audit engagement partner, including with the absence of executive management: considered their length of tenure: reviewed the nature and magnitude of non-audit services provided: and reviewed the external auditors own independence confirmation presented to the Committee.
Based on the assessment performed, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
Edwin Gillis Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 25 May 2016
