Governance Effectiveness Chairman and Non-executive Directors The Chairman and the Company Secretary provided a On the appointment of John Hughes in 2007, the Board comprehensive initial briefing to Dr Long.
The process then considered that he met the independence criteria set out in included detailed interviews with the Board and the Company theCode.
The Chairmans significant listed company interests are Secretary, observation of Board and Committee meetings and as set out in his biography on page 55.
The Board has formally access to supporting materials to enhance understanding of reviewed the Chairmans other commitments and confirms that how the Board and its Committees operate.
itbelieves that the Chairmans obligations to the Company A final report and recommendations were presented to areproperly fulfilled and that these roles provide the Chairman theBoard at its meeting in February 2017.
Dr Long's with additional skills and experience which benefit theBoard.
overallconclusion was that the Board and its Committees Non-executive Directors are appointed pursuant to letters arewell-functioning and effective, with particular strengths ofappointment.
The appointment of all Non-executive Directors inits positive and supportive culture, governance environment, can be terminated by the Company at any time on six months oversight of risks and controls and approach to remuneration.
written notice and are renewable at each Annual General The Board accepted Dr Long's observation that i the Groups Meeting AGM of the Company, subject to review prior strategic ambitions, and the associated transformation and toproposal for re-election.
The time commitments of restructuring, bring a focus for the Board to oversee the detailed Non-executive Directors are defined on appointment.
The execution plans and ensure associated risks are reduced to the roleof ourNon-executive Directors is to bring independent minimum: and ii the development of succession and leadership judgement to bearonissues of strategy, performance and development plans for senior management will need to be a standards of conduct.
They form the Audit and Risk, continued priority in order to support the strategic changes Nominationand Remuneration Committees.
These aspects will be further discussed and addressed by the Board over the course of 2017 and beyond.
All of our Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent and free from any business interest which could Induction materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
In All new Directors appointed to the Board receive an induction addition, all of our Non-executive Directors have assured the programme tailored to meet their individual needs.
For example, Board that they remain committed to their respective roles.
Kjersti Wiklund appointed to the Board on 19 January 2017 TheBoard is satisfied that each Non-executive Director is able discussed with the Chairman what briefings and meetings todedicate the necessary amount of time to the Companys wouldbe most beneficial to her to ensure an effective affairs and that the external positions held bring valuable inductionfollowing her appointment.
As a result, tailored knowledge, experience and perspectives to Board induction programmes are designed, which include briefings discussionsand the Group.
from members of the Executive team and other senior managers fromboth head office and the operating companies.
The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for re-appointment at the AGM.
Training The Chairman reviews each Directors training and development Details of the Directors of the Company are set out with needs annually.
To enhance the Directors understanding of our theirbiographies on pages 54 and 55.
Details of Directors business, the April Board meeting was held at HBMs Darmstadt service contracts, or letters of appointment in the case of site.
This gave the Board the opportunity to meet senior staff at Non-executive Directors, their emoluments and share interests, the operating company and receive presentations from the HBM are set out inthe Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 91. management team.
Similarly, the October Board meeting was Copies ofDirectors service contracts or letters of appointment held at the recently-acquired Millbrook Proving Ground.
are available for inspection by shareholders at each AGM andduring normal business hours at the Companys The Directors also receive regular updates and presentations.
These include changes and developments to the business and to the legislative and regulatory environments in which the Group Performance evaluation operates.
Presentations from business unit Presidents are also Each year, the performance and effectiveness of the Board and received, in addition to the location visits described above.
In its Committees are evaluated in accordance with the guidance 2016, presentations were received from the newly-appointed provided under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Presidents of Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration and With an internal evaluation having been carried out in each of OmegaEngineering.
the last two years, an external evaluation was conducted this year.
This was facilitated by DrTracyLong CBE of Boardroom Review Limited, a specialist consultancy which undertakes no other business for the Company.
