Governance Accountability Audit and Risk Committee Report Letter from the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee An important role of theCommittee is the oversightoftheGroups risk managementprocess.
Bill Seeger Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee The results of this evaluation were in the main very positive but a During the year, the Committees number of areas were identified where the effectiveness of the function could be further enhanced, for example in developing work continued to focus on its capabilities in relation to IT and Enterprise Resource Planning therobustness of the financial ERP implementation risks.
The Groups treasury strategy was reviewed and updated reporting, the rigour of the external toensure that it remains aligned with the Groups strategic and internal audit processes, and objectives.
In addition, the Groups tax strategy was reviewed during 2016 in order to ensure that it remains appropriate and the Groups controlenvironment.
iscompliant with the new UK requirements regarding content and publication which came into effect fromJanuary 2017.
A key task undertaken by the Committee during the year was A particular focus for the Committee in reviewing the 2016 theexternal audit tender which resulted in the selection of accounts was the assessment of goodwill and carrying values in Deloitte LLP to become auditor for 2017 and beyond, subject respect of Omega Engineering and ESG Solutions in the context toshareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM.
I would of their 2016 performance and longer-term growth prospects, like tothank KPMG LLP KPMG for its audit service to the which has led the Committee to support managements Company.
Details ofthe tender and selection process are judgement that a goodwill impairment of 94.4 million set out within this report.
and19.9 million, respectively, should be made.
An important role of the Committee is the oversight of the As part of our internal governance processes, every Committee Groups risk management process.
During 2016, the Group meeting is scheduled prior to the Board meeting to enable key hascontinued to build on enhancements introduced to matters discussed to be reported to the Board, and considered theGroups risk reporting process at the end of 2015, which fully as appropriate.
We believe that this process has worked included more detailed calibration when evaluating risk as wellduring the year and will continue into the future.
wellas analysing the Groups principal risks through the Yours faithfully linesofdefence framework.
In addition, a structure has beenestablished for formalising and communicating the Bill Seeger Groups riskappetite against each of the principal risks.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Linked to this, an effectiveness review of the Internal Audit 14 February 2017 function wasundertaken, comprising an analysis of its independence, proficiency, resourcing, audit strategy, planning and methodology.
64 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Role of the Committee At the invitation of the Committee, any Director or other The principal purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board personmay be invited to attend meetings ofthe Committee, if indischarging its responsibilities to present a fair, balanced considered desirable, in assisting the Committee to fulfil its role.
andunderstandable assessment of the Companys position and The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Committee, prospects.
The Committee acts independently of management BillSeeger, having held several senior finance positions, to ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly continues to meet the specific requirement of the Code for protected in relation to financial reporting and the effectiveness recent and relevant financial experience, and that Committee of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
members have the broad range of financial and commercial The Committee operates under terms of reference which expertise necessary to carry out their duties.
Further information includeall matters encompassed by Rule 7 of the Disclosure on each of the Directors skills and experience can be found in Guidance and Transparency Rules and the Financial Reporting their biographies on page 55.
They were updated The Board is satisfied that the Committee has the resources and inDecember 2015 to take into account the additional expertise to fulfil its responsibilities.
responsibilities relating to the Viability Statement, and were again refreshed in December 2016, with further emphasis being Committee meetings placed on the Committees changing work scopein accordance The Committee met four times during the year.
Meetings are with the revised Code, Risk Management and Internal Control scheduled to coincide with key dates in the Groups financial Guidance, and other EU guidance relating to auditor tender and reporting calendar.
Committee attendance is disclosed on tenure.
A copy of the terms of reference can be found on the page58.
The Committee revised its schedule of agenda items Companys website www.
toincorporate recent changes in regulation and ensure that accounting, risk and governance requirements and practices Composition of the Committee remain current.
The Head of Business Ethics and Governance The Audit and Risk Committee is appointed by the Board, andthe Group Finance Director worked with the Chairman andconsists of independent Non-executive Directors.
Itsmembers are: Bill Seeger Chairman Ulf Quellmann Martha Wyrsch Committee meeting participation Accounting, Risk technical and management External corporate and assurance Financial auditor governance Internal audit including ethics reporting independence updates Chief Executive Group Finance Director Business Group Directors Company Secretary Head of Business Ethics and Governance Head of Internal Audit Group Financial Controller External auditor Presented reports Participated in debate answered Committee questions The external auditor met with the members of the Committee following the February 2016 and February 2017 meetings in a private sessionwithout management present.
65 Governance Accountability continued Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Activities in 2016 Significant issues and key financial reporting matters Key issues considered by the Committee during the yearincluded: During the year, the Committee received reports and recommendations from management and the external auditor a review of the 2015 and 2016 Financial Statements, including to consider the significant accounting issues and judgements year-end key estimates and judgements and the external applicable to the Groups Financial Statements and disclosures.
auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts audit: The key risks of misstatement in the Groups 2016 Financial the fair, balanced and understandable assessment: Statements were: the Companys ongoing viability: a review of the 2015 internal audit activity and the 2016 valuation of goodwill and intangible assets for impairment: internal audit plan: accounting for acquisitions: a review of the ethics and compliance programme, and valuation of inventory: whistleblowing reports: provisions for uncertain exposures and tax positions: and updates regarding the information security programme: misstatements.
the output of the internal auditor effectiveness review: Valuations of goodwill, inventory valuation and tax provisions the external auditor tender process: are recurring in nature from year to year whilst accounting for external auditor non-audit services policy: and acquisitions relates specifically to acquisitions made during the Committees terms of reference.
These issues were discussed with management and with the Audit and Risk Committee allocation of time external auditor at the time the Committee reviewed and agreed % 1 Financial statements 1 the external auditors Group audit plan, when the auditor 5 and reporting 35 reviewed the half-year Financial Statements in July 2016, 2 External audit including andalso at the conclusion of the 2016 audit of the full-year tender process 25 4 3 Culture, risk management Financial Statements.
and controls, including information security 20 4 Internal audit 14 5 Committee governance 6 2 3 Key financial reporting matters in 2016 How the issue was addressed by the Committee Valuation of goodwill Management assessed the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets including and intangible assets detailed calculations of value in use for those cash-generating units whose recoverable for impairment amountis not significantly greater than its carrying amount to ensure that the carrying values are supported by forecast future discounted cash flows.
As a result of the assessment, an impairment charge of 94.4 million was made for Omega Engineering, and 20.9 million for ESG Solutions, totalling 115.3 million.
Of this, 114.3 million relates to goodwill impairment and 1.0 million to other intangible assets.
During the year, management reviewed the weighted average cost of capital WACC calculation and the long-term growth rates tobeapplied in determining the discounted value of the projected cash flows of the cashgenerating units as more fully explained in Note 11 to the Financial Statements.
This resulted ina reduced nominal post-tax WACC rate for the Group of 7.5% 2015: 7.9% with long-term growth rates of 2.0% 2015: 2.5%.
The Committee reviewed the assessment overall and was satisfied that the assumptions wereappropriate.
The external auditor explained the results of its audit work of the estimate of value in use, including its challenge of managements underlying cash flow projections as well as the long-term growth assumptions, discount rate and Financial Statements disclosure.
On the basis of its audit work, the impairment recognised and disclosure provided in the Financial Statements were considered appropriate.
Following discussion, the Committee was satisfied that the approach taken by management wasappropriate and that the impairment charge recognised and accompanying the FinancialStatements disclosure was appropriate.
66 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Key financial reporting matters in 2016 How the issue was addressed by the Committee Accounting for acquisitions During 2016, the Group acquired six businesses.
Judgement is required to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations, particularly in respect of intangible and tangible assets which can be industry-specific.
Contingent consideration payable on the achievement of future performance sales targets is dependent on the achievement of these targets.
As a result, judgement is required in measuring the fair value of the Groups contingent consideration obligation, both at the acquisition date and at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date.
The Committee considered the approach taken by management for the acquisitions made during the year, and the work undertaken by the external auditor, and concluded that the judgements that had been made were fair and appropriate.
Provision for uncertain tax Provisions held in respect of tax risks are included within current and deferred tax liabilities exposures depending on the underlying circumstances of the provision.
Significant management judgement is exercised in arriving at the amounts to be provided.
Management confirmed to the Committee that the provisions recorded at 31 December 2016 represent their best estimate of the likely financial exposure faced by the Group.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work it had conducted during the year, including how its audit procedures were focused on those provisions with the highest level of judgement on recognition criteria and or measurement.
Following discussion with both management and the external auditor regarding the key judgements which had been made, the Committee was satisfied that they were reasonable and that, accordingly, the provision amounts recorded were appropriate.
Valuation of inventory Provisions are made to write down slow-moving and obsolete inventory items to net realisable value, based on an assessment of technological and market developments and on an analysis of historical and projected usage with regard to quantities.
The assessment used to calculate the provisions needed requires the application of judgement by management.
Management confirmed to the Committee that, with the exception of Omega, there have been no significant changes to theapproach used to estimate inventory provisions from the prior year.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work it had conducted during the year.
On the basis of its audit work, the external auditor reported no material inconsistencies or misstatements.
Following discussion, the Committee was satisfied that the judgements that had been exercised were appropriate and that, therefore, the inventory provisions were appropriately stated attheyear end.
67 Governance Accountability continued Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Key financial reporting matters in 2016 How the issue was addressed by the Committee Misstatements Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not aware of any material or immaterial misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular presentation.
The Committee confirms that as a result of the presentations made to the Committee by theexternal auditor, and the ensuing discussions and questioning of the external auditor by Committee members, it is satisfied that the external auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence and professional scepticism.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management and consulting where necessary with the external auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the Financial Statements appropriately address critical judgements and key estimates both in respect of the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised and challenged, and are sufficiently robust.
External audit Non-audit fees The Committee is responsible for managing the relationship A cumulative annual cap is imposed for non-audit services withthe Groups external auditor on behalf of the Board.
provided by our external auditor save for acquisition due At the July 2016 meeting, KPMG, led by the Audit Partner, diligence and limited taxation services, above which all MrRichard Broadbelt, presented its strategy and scope for engagements are subject to the Committees prior approval.
theaudit for the financial year, and highlighted areas requiring Non-audit fees for services provided by KPMG for the year special consideration.
KPMG then reported against this audit amounted to 0.1 million 7% of the audit fee.
Further scope at subsequent Committee meetings.
detailsare included inNote 5 to the Financial Statements.
TheCommittees non-audit services policy is available on Private meetings are held between the Committee and theCompanys website www.
representatives of the external auditor, without management being present, which facilitates open and transparent feedback by both parties.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall external audit process and services provided by KPMG throughout 2016 were effective.
68 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Effectiveness and independence Appointment of external auditor The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent The Committee is responsible for overseeing the selection onappropriate risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
process relating to the appointment of the external auditor Forthe current period, the significant risks identified by the andapproving the external auditors remuneration, its terms external auditor and discussed in detail with the Committee ofengagement and scope of work.
were valuation of goodwill and intangible assets for impairment, During 2016, a tender process for the externalauditor was accounting for acquisitions, provisions for uncertain tax ofparticular focus for the Committee.
KPMG has been the exposures, valuation of inventory and misstatements.
Further Companys external auditor since 1998 and, in light of its information on these risks can be found on pages 32 to39.
lengthof tenure, it was agreed that a competitive tender TheCommittees assessment of the effectiveness and quality process would be appropriate and that KPMG should not ofthe audit process in addressing these matters was formed beinvited to participate.
by, amongst other things, consideration of the external auditors findings, and discussing these with management, with KPMG At the Boards request, the Committee oversaw a rigorous and then considering actions to be taken in response.
audittender process which was led by the Committee Chairman.
The Committee delegated authority to the Committee Chairman, Overall, the Committee was satisfied that there had been theGroup Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller appropriate focus and challenge on the key areas of audit the 'Selection Panel' to compile the candidate shortlist for the risk, and that KPMG had provided an effective Group audit.
Committee to recommend to the Board.
The tender participants KPMGs full-year report to the Committee contained a were provided with information on the Group and invited to statement on its independence and compliance with the attend a number of meetings with senior management to gain Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards, arrangements insight into the Groups operations, risks and requirements.
In tomanage conflicts of interest, and the nature and associated order to ensure that the independence of the external audit fees for non-audit services provided, which was assessed by waspreserved, each firm was required to disclose all existing theCommittee.
relationships with the Group and explain, where necessary, its proposals for ensuring that a conflict of interest would not arise In accordance with the Committees policy on non-audit should this firm be appointed as external auditor.
services, the external auditor will not provide services that havethe potential to impair, or appear to impair, the external The participant firms then presented their audit proposals to auditors independence or objectivity, and approval from the theSelection Panel which, after careful consideration of each of Committee isrequired before the external auditor is appointed the proposals against Spectris performance criteria, shortlisted to carry out non-audit work.
In reaching its decision, the two possible candidates to be recommended to the Board for Committee will consider whether it is in the best interests of theexternal auditor position.
The criteria included, but were theCompany for the services to be provided by the external notlimited to, the lead partner and audit firms industrial listed auditor.
Approval will be granted where it can be demonstrated company experience, the use of technology and data analytics by the external auditor that it has the necessary expertise and throughout the audit, the approach for identifying and capability to undertake the work cost effectively.
addressing emerging market fraud risks, the value add from theaudit process, and its proposed outline and transition approach towards the audit.
The Selection Panel shortlisted Deloitte and PwC as the preferred candidates and its suggestions, and the rationale for the choices, were put totheCommittee for review.
69 Governance Accountability continued Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Deloitte was invited to attend the Committees July 2016 Internal control and risk management systems meeting, and presented a summary of its proposition, key The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent differentiators covering its distinctive audit approach and the of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its team strengths.
At the conclusion of the presentation, the particular objectives and is ultimately responsible for the Committee agreed to recommend to the Board that Deloitte be effectiveness of the internal control systems that safeguard appointed external auditor to the Group at the conclusion of the shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The proposal will be put to shareholders at the 2017 the effectiveness of these systems, at the Boards request, AGM, and the Committee would like to thank KPMG for their a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group past contribution to Spectris plc, and PwC and the other firms is undertaken by the Committee.
The Deloitte Audit Partner will be Before reporting its findings and recommendations to the Board, Mr Mark Mullins.
the Committee: Statutory Audit Services compliance evaluates the results and recommendations of audits The Company confirms its compliance with the requirements undertaken by the internal audit team and the ofthe Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market external auditor: Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes reviews reports received on significant control issues to the and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year Group and considers and challenges as necessary the ended 31 December 2016. adequacy of managements response to any matters raised: Internal audit appraises the Groups response to information security and The Committee has oversight responsibilities for the Internal data protection risks: Audit function which is led by the Head of Internal Audit.
considers common control themes identified throughout The purpose of the Internal Audit function is to provide thebusiness, and where themes were identified, ensures independent, objective assurance to add value and improve that subsequent action has been taken to minimise the risk: the Groups operations.
Its responsibilities include assessing assesses the Groups responsibilities relating to regulated the key risks of the organisation and examining, evaluating exposures of the Group: andreporting on the adequacy and effectiveness of the reviews the annual Audit and Risk Committee agenda: and systemsof internal control and risk management in place, and has oversight of the new governance and risk management the governance processes in operation throughout the Group.
framework, including a definition of risk appetite by risk category and principal risk, put in place throughout theGroup.
During the year, the Committee considered the internal audit programme for the forthcoming year and reviewed the proposed The effectiveness of risk management and mitigation is audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
reviewed regularly by the Executive Directors and twice yearly bythe Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee also reviewed the progress updates against the 2016 activity of Internal Audit, received reports on issues The Board notes that, as with all such systems, the Groups of significance to the Group and reported to the Board on its internal control framework is designed to manage rather than evaluation of these findings.
eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against In the latter half of the year, an effectiveness review of the material misstatement or loss.
Internal Audit function was undertaken, taking into account the views of Directors and senior management across the Group on Business model matters such as independence, proficiency, resourcing, and audit A description of the Groups business model can be found in strategy, planning and methodology.
theStrategic Report on pages 10 and 11.
The review confirmed that the Internal Audit function was independent and objective, and remained an effective element of the Groups corporate governance framework.
70 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Going concern Following review and comment by both the Committee and the The going concern statement can be found on page 94.
Board, the Annual Report and Accounts was subject to final approval by the Board.
Whistleblowing policy and process Details of the Groups whistleblowing policy are provided The Committee was satisfied with the process undertaken withinthe Ethics Report on page 51. inpreparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Following discussions at our February 2017 meeting, we have advised Fair, balanced and understandable theBoard that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as The Code requires the Board to confirm that it considers awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides theAnnual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the performance, strategy and business model of the Company.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee Viability Statement provided assistance to the Board in this regard by considering In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate therobustness of the process by which the Annual Report and Governance Code 2014, the Committee monitored the longerAccounts is prepared.
The processes adopted in relation to the term prospects of the Group throughout the year.
In assessing Annual Report involved the following: the viability of the Company, the Committee took into consideration the current position and prospects of the Group, Specific ownership and responsibility for the individual sections risk appetite, and the range of internal and external factors, was allocated and documented, and was then provided to the including the significant risks as described on pages 32 to 39 Committee as part of its review of the process.
During the compilation period, regular meetings were held with members of Group Finance, Group Secretariat and The Committee also sought management input into its Corporate Affairs, all primary authors of the Annual Report.
assessment of the viability of the Company and the Group and, These meetings ensured that there was appropriate linkage after due consideration of the results of its overall assessment, between the various sections of the report and that our the Committee recommended the Viability Statement for reporting was balanced.
An extensive review was undertaken to ensure factual accuracy.
The Viability Statement can be found on page 40 of the The content of the Annual Report was subject to Strategic Report, and includes details of the processes, comprehensive reviews by Executive and senior management.
assumptions and testing which underpin it.
In particular, a review of the entire Annual Report and Accounts was undertaken to ensure that it promotes consistency and balance between the narrative front half andaccounts sections.
At our December 2016 meeting, the Committee reviewed the initial draft of the Annual Report and Accounts, during which it probed and tested disclosures.
At our February 2017 meeting, the Committee challenged the fair, balanced and understandable assessment and examined whether appropriate balance and equal prominence had been given to positive and negative news.
