Governance Board of Directors Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman John OHiggins Chief Executive Appointed June 2007.
Appointed Chairman inMay2008 Appointed January 2006 N N E D F Committees Committees Bill Seeger Non-executive Director Clive Watson Group Finance Director Appointed January 2015 Appointed October 2006 A E D F Committees Committees Russell King Senior Independent Director Ulf Quellmann Non-executive Director Appointed October 2010 Appointed January 2015 N R A R Committees Committees Martha Wyrsch Non-executive Director Kjersti Wiklund Non-executive Director Appointed June 2012 Appointed January 2017 A N N R Committees Committees Key Audit and Risk Disclosure A D N Nomination E Executive R Remuneration F Finance Roger Stephens Head of Commercial and Company Secretary Appointed January 1997 E D F Committees 54 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman John OHiggins Chief Executive Skills and experience Dr John Hughes CBE has more than 30 years Skills and experience John OHiggins has a wealth of experience experience leading global, high-technology businesses.
He has inthe global instrumentation and controls industry, having previously significant experience of managing growth companies, especially those worked for Honeywell in a number of management roles, including supplying complex solutions and services to business customers and the aspresident of automation and control solutions, Asia Pacific.
He previously held senior executive Hiscareer began as a design engineer at Daimler-Benz in Stuttgart.
positions at Thales Group, Lucent Technologies and Hewlett Packard, Hehasengineering degrees from University College Dublin and and was then non-executive chairman of Intec Telecom Systems plc PurdueUniversity and an MBA from INSEAD, and has been a and Sepura plc, and a non-executive director of Chloride Group plc non-executive director of Exide.
In 2016, he stepped down as executive chairman Other current appointments None.
Clive Watson Group Finance Director Other current appointments Non-executive chairman of Just Eat plc.
Skills and experience Clive Watson has considerable finance Non-executive director of CSG International Inc. and Equinix Inc. both experience, having previously been chief financial officer and executive NASDAQ-listed companies.
Ambassador for the Alzheimers Society.
vice president for business support at Borealis.
Prior to this, he was Bill Seeger Non-executive Director group finance director at Thorn Lighting Group and group finance Skills and experience Bill Seeger has significant corporate financeand director Europe at Black & Decker.
Clive is a member of the Institute accounting experience, having formerly been the group finance director ofChartered Accountants inEngland and Wales and the Chartered of GKN plc and prior to that president and CEO of thepropulsion Institute of Taxation.
systems and special products division and CFO in the aerospace division Other current appointments Non-executive director and chairman of GKN.
He spent most of his career at TRW, latterly in senior finance ofthe audit committee of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
roles, including as vice president, financial planning and analysis, and Ulf Quellmann Non-executive Director vice president, finance, of TRW Automotive.
Skills and experience Ulf Quellmann has broad general management Other current appointments Non-executive director and chairman experience and considerable knowledge of the metals, minerals and of the audit committee of Smiths Group plc.
Visiting professor at UCLA mining industry, having worked in the sector for over 12 years.
He is Anderson School of Management.
currently chief financial officer, Copper and Diamonds, atRio Tinto plc.
Russell King Senior Independent Director Previously, he was group treasurer of Rio Tinto plc andheld senior Skills and experience Russell King has considerable international positions at Alcan Inc. including vice president, investor relations and experience acquired across a number of sectors, including mining media relations, and chief pension investment officer and assistant andchemicals, together with strong experience in strategy.
Prior to that he held senior management positions atGeneral waspreviously chief strategy officer of Anglo American PLC and a Motors, including as senior manager, capital planning, and managing non-executive director of Anglo Platinum Ltd.
Prior to that he spent director of Vauxhall Master Hire.
over 20 years in senior roles at ICI.
He was then a non-executive Other current appointments None.
director and chairman of Sepura plc.
Kjersti Wiklund Non-executive Director Other current appointments Chairman of Hummingbird Resources Skills and experience Kjersti Wiklund brings significant knowledge Plc.
Non-executive director of Aggreko plc and Interserve Plc.
Senior ofthe international telecommunications sector.
Kjersti has held a series adviser to Heidrick & Struggles.
Serves on the Executive Remuneration of senior global roles including director, group technology operations, Working Group, established by the Investment Association.
at Vodafone: chief operating officer of VimpelCom Russia: deputy Martha Wyrsch Non-executive Director chiefexecutive officer and chief technology officer of Kyivstar in Skills and experience Martha Wyrsch has held a number of senior Ukraine: executive vice president and chief technology officer of positions in the energy industry and has significant experience of the  in Malaysia: and executive vice president US market.
She currently holds the position of executive vice president andchief information officer at Telenor in Norway.
Kjersti was and general counsel of Sempra Energy, a company quoted on the previously a non-executive director of both Cxense ASA and Fast NewYork Stock Exchange.
Previously, she was president of Vestas Search & Transfer ASA in Norway and Telescience Inc. in the USA.
Americas, a subsidiary of Vestas Wind Systems A S, and prior to that Other current appointments Non-executive director of Laird PLC.
she was president and CEO of Spectra Energy Transmission.
She was Past Directors previously a non-executive director of SPX Corporation.
Lisa Davis Other current appointments Director of the Cristo Rey Network Retired as a Non-executive Director on 20 May 2016. aUS educational foundation, San Diego Gas & Electric Company Peter Chambr awholly-owned subsidiary of Sempra Energy, and Southern Retired as a Non-executive Director on 2 December 2016.
California GasCompany a US subsidiary of Sempra Energy with publicly-traded shares.
Roger Stephens Head of Commercial and Company Secretary Skills and experience Roger Stephens has broad commercial experience and is responsible for legal and governance matters and capital projects across the Group.
Prior to joining Spectris, he held commercial roles in the power and construction sectors, specialising incontract negotiation, litigation and claims resolution, IP exploitation and property development.
