Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Leadership Governance structure The governance of the Group is structured through a hierarchy of committees that approve and monitor the strategies and policies under which the Company operates.
This structure comprises a mixture of Board and management committees, as illustrated in the diagram below: The Board Board Committees: Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Management Committees: Executive Disclosure Finance Responsible for the day-to-day Responsible for the identification and Responsible for banking management of the Groups operations disclosure of inside information and for andtreasurymatters ensuring that announcements comply with applicable regulatory requirements Priority areas in 2016 In addition to the Boards role in overseeing the Companys financial performance and the Companys businesses, during the year, the following items and initiatives were delivered: See page Acquisitions In September 2016, the Company completed the platform acquisition of Millbrook Group Limited, and a further five acquisitions were also completed during the year.
Detailed scrutiny of each potential acquisition was undertaken by the Board with a focus on the strategic rationale and financial business case to ensure that the expected cash flow returns on investment would be delivered.
6 Strategy During the year, the Board reviewed progress against the Groups strategy and considered opportunities within our key markets.
Our strategic objective is to deliver long-term and sustainable shareholder value by creating and providing  innovative solutions and services to our customers.
5 Operational excellence The programme of lean initiatives, a key element of the Groups strategy, has been progressed.
Project Uplift, initiated during the year, seeks to improve productivity, reduce complexity and eliminate unnecessary cost, and provide consolidation and procurementsavings.
5 Talent management Talent management and succession planning for senior roles across the Group is an area of key priority to ensure that the Group has the management capabilities to deliver its strategic objectives.
Group-wide competencies have been adopted to create a common understanding and language of what constitutes good leadership at Spectris.
A Group Human Resources Director has been recruited to drive the development of a more rigorous approach toidentifying, assessing, developing and attracting diverse management talent.
62 Viability statement The Audit and Risk Committee provided assistance to the Board in relation to the viability statement.
This included a thorough review of business viability and the Groups risk management processes.
71 Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee considered the existing remuneration framework review and proposed changes to the Board.
A new Remuneration Policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
77 57 Governance Leadership continued How the Board operates Meetings A clearly-defined framework of roles, responsibilities and The Board meets formally at regular intervals throughout delegated authorities is in place which supports the Boards theyear to continuously assess and review key priorities aimto deliver long-term shareholder value.
The powers of the andbusiness issues for the Group over the short, medium Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association andlong term.
Additional meetings are convened as required the Articles, which are available on the Companys website, toconsider specific topics requiring more immediate decision.
Inaddition, the Directors have Comprehensive papers are presented to the Board which responsibilities and duties under legislation, in particular facilitate meaningful debate on the performance and future the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant approval.
A summary is shown below and the full schedule is Committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at available on application to the Company Secretary.
The Board Board and Committee meetings during 2016 are set out in also delegates other matters to Board Committees and thetable below.
Directors who were unable to attend specific management as appropriate.
Board or Committee meetings reviewed the relevant papers andprovided their comments to the Chairman of the Board The responsibilities of the Board include: orCommittee, as appropriate.
The Head of Commercial and the Companys long-term objectives and strategy: Company Secretary, Roger Stephens, attends all meetings.
In setting the tone for the Companys culture and addition, members of the Executive Committee, other Group operatingframework: senior managers and external advisers are invited to provide annual financial planning: input on particular agenda items.
the acquisition and disposal of businesses: Matters reserved and delegation major capital expenditure: Authority for operational decisions is delegated by the the appointment and removal of Directors: and Boardtosenior management at operating company level, Board and senior management succession.
overwhichthe Executive Directors exercise supervision.
Board and Committee meeting attendance during the year Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings during year 11 5 4 5 Dr John Hughes CBE 11 n a 4 n a John OHiggins 11 n a 4 n a 1 Peter Chambr 10 5 3 4 2 Lisa Davis 2 n a 1 1 Russell King 11 n a 4 5 Ulf Quellmann 11 5 n a 5 Bill Seeger 11 5 n a n a Martha Wyrsch 11 5 4 n a Clive Watson 11 n a n a n a 1 Peter Chambr retired from the Board with effect from 2 December 2016.
He attended all meetings he was eligible to attend.
2 Lisa Davis retired from the Board with effect from 20 May 2016.
She attended two of the seven Board, one of the two Remuneration Committee and one of the two Nomination Committee meetings she was eligible to attend.
Committees Board allocation of time The Board delegates specific responsibilities to its Committees, % 1 Acquisitions 30 1 notably the Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration 5 2 Operations and risk 30 Committees.
A chart setting out the Committee structure is 3 Strategy 21 setout on page 57.
Each Committee has formal terms of 4 4 Finance 12 reference which are available on the Companys website.
5 Governance 7 The responsibilities of each Board Committee, its membership and the key issues considered by each during 2016 are set out 2 in theCommittee reports.
To ensure that the Board is kept informed ofthe work of the Committees, the Committee 3 Chairmen provide regular updates tothe Board.
In addition, papers andminutes of Committee meetings are made available toallDirectors.
58 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Composition and appointments Under the Act, a Director must avoid a situation where he The Board comprises a mix of Executive Directors and orshehas, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that independent Non-executive Directors who consider and conflicts, or may conflict, with the Companys interests.
During debatethe important issues facing Spectris and the Groups the year, inaccordance with the powers and duties ofDirectors performance.
At the date of this report, there are a total of laid down in the Companys Articles, Directors were asked to eightDirectors, of whom two are Executive and five are declare any such conflict or potential conflict of interest to the Non-executive, in addition to the Chairman.
Board, and to request the Boards authorisation of any matter which otherwise might have given rise to a conflict of interest.
Kjersti Wiklund was appointed to the Board as a Non-executive No conflicts have been declared.
Director with effect from 19 January 2017.
A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during the selection and Professional advice and support subsequent appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Directors have full access to the advice and services of Detailsregarding the appointment process and the induction theHead of Commercial and Company Secretary, who is process can be found on page62.
responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman oncorporate governance matters.
They are also able to seek Roles independent professional advice at the Companys expense The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, inrespect of their duties.
formalised in writing and have been approved by the Board.
Asummary of these roles is shown below and full role Indemnity and insurance descriptions are available to shareholders on application In accordance with the Articles, the Company has totheCompany Secretary.
grantedadeedof indemnity, to the extent permitted bylaw, toDirectors, members of the Executive Committee The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and management andsenior managers.
Qualifying third-party indemnity of the Board.
In doing so, he is responsible for promoting a provisions as defined by Section234 of the Act were culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective inforceduring the year ended 31December 2016 and contribution of all Directors.
In addition, he is responsible remaininforce.
The Company also maintains directors forensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and andofficers liability insurance.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive leadership and day-to-day management of the Company and for developing and delivering the strategy.
The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board forthe Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors and shareholders when necessary.
During the year, the Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, met independently of management.
