Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Nomination Committee Report Letter from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee A key focus of the Committee thisyear has been the continued oversight of talent management across theGroup.
Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee A key focus for the Committee during the year has been the On behalf of the Nomination continued oversight of talent management across the Group.
In support of this, I am pleased to announce the recruitment Committee, I am pleased to of Mr Andrew Harvey as Group Human Resources Director.
presentour report to you Andrew has been tasked with developing an effective talent development, diversity and succession planning strategy.
summarising our work during Further details are provided on page 53. theyear, and setting out our A further focus for the Committee has been the ongoing refreshing of the Board.
During the year, Mrs Lisa Davis and Mr membership and responsibilities.
Peter Chambr stepped down from the Board as Non-executive Directors and the Board delegated authority to the Committee to identify their replacements.
The Committee worked closely with Egon Zehnder to compile a shortlist of candidates against measured criteria to ensure the Companys continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
I am pleased to welcome Kjersti Wiklund to the Board as a new Non-executive Director.
The appointment of a second Non-executive Director is expected to be made in due course.
In addition, after nine years as your Chairman, and in the interests of good governance, Ihave decided to step down from the Board once a successor has been appointed.
A recruitment process for my replacement has been initiated and is being led by the Senior Independent Director, Mr Russell King.
At our meeting in December 2016, we considered the effectiveness and contribution of the individual Non-executive Directors during the past year and recommended to the Board that each be put forward for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee also considered and re-confirmed the independence of each of the Boards Non-executive Directors.
Yours faithfully Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee 14 February 2017 61 Governance Effectiveness continued Nomination Committee Report continued Role of the Committee Non-executive Director tenure The role of the Nomination Committee is to evaluate the size, The chart below indicates the length of tenure for each structure and composition of the Board, including the balance Non-executive Director as at 31 December 2016.
Any extension ofskills, knowledge, experience and independence of Board oftheappointment beyond nine years service is closely members and recommend new appointments to the Board.
reviewedby the Committee to ensure the individuals TheCommittee similarly reviews the membership of the , effectiveness and contribution Executive Committee and leaders of our operating businesses, totheBoards deliberations.
and seeks to ensure that strong talent development, diversity 2.00 and succession planning processes are embedded across U Quellmann the Group.
2.00 W C Seeger 4.58 Committee composition and meetings M B Wyrsch 6.22 The members of the Nomination Committee are appointed R J King bythe Board and include the Chairman, the Chief Executive, theSenior Independent Director and at least two further Board changes independent Non-executive Directors.
For discussions relating During the year, two valued colleagues stepped down from tothe Chairmans succession, the Senior Independent Director theBoard.
Lisa Davis departed the Board in May, following takes the chair.
theconclusion of the 2016 AGM, and PeterChambr, having completed nine years service, stepped down from the Board The Committee meets as required to carry out its duties.
theCommittees discretion, other individuals, including external advisers, may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting It was agreed that Egon Zehnder, which adheres to the to assist the Committee in fulfilling its role.
Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and does not provide any other services to the Company, would The table on page 58 sets out the Directors who served on be engaged to assist in the search for two new Non-executive theCommittee during the year and their attendance.
In considering the criteria for the new appointees, the Committee reviewed the skills and experience that the Nomination Committee allocation of time Board would benefit from in overseeing the implementation of % 1 Board composition, the Company's long-term strategy.
In particular, it was agreed 1 3 succession planning that candidates with recent experience in the electronics and recruitment 55 telecommunications and life sciences pharmaceuticals sectors 2 Organisational capability should be sought.
The importance of continuing the Companys review and talent commitment to diversity, including gender diversity, was also management programme 37 3 Independence and recognised and Egon Zehnder was instructed to compile nomination re-election gender-balanced candidate lists for both roles.
of directors 8 In January 2017, Kjersti Wiklund was appointed to the Board.
Following a rigorous selection process, the Committee 2 concluded that Kjersti's wealth of business experience and knowledge of the international telecommunications sector would enhance the capabilities and effectiveness of the Board.
Activities in 2016 The recruitment process for a second Non-executive Director, In accordance with its terms of reference, the key issues with life sciences sector experience, is at an advanced stage.
considered by the Committee during the year included: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the In addition, having served nine years as Chairman and ten years Board and making recommendations to the Board based as a Director of the Company, Dr John Hughes has decided to on findings: stand down from the Board once a successor has been reviewing succession plans with a view to ensuring the appointed.
The Committee has initiated a process to find his continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively successor which is being led by the Senior Independent Director in the marketplace: and supported by Egon Zehnder.
engaging Egon Zehnder to assist in the recruitment of Succession planning and talent management new Non-executive Directors and initiating the search for Succession planning throughout the business remains vital for a new Chairman: the delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Group seeks to attract oversight of a Group-wide organisational capability review: and retain the best talent and we have in place compensation oversight of the talent management programme and the and benefits that reward achievement and training programmes recruitment of a new Group Human Resources Director to to help employees develop and reach their full potential.
During drive this forward: and the year, a top-down organisational capability review was reviewing the skills of each of the Directors and the carried out which included an assessment against the Groups independence of each of the Non-executive Directors and selected set of leadership competencies to identify the highrecommending that each of them be subject to re-election potential and high-performing individuals.
The results of this by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
review will assist us to build on existing programmes to further 62 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 enhance individual development, introduce new initiatives and Nationality of the Board refresh retention plans to broaden and develop the talent which % 1 British 3 1 exists across theGroup.
2 Irish 1 5 In recognition of the importance of these initiatives to the 3 American 2 4 German 1 achievement of the Group's strategy, the Committee oversaw 5 Norwegian 1 the recruitment of a new Group Human Resources Director.
4 As part of the selection process, a specialist Human Resources recruitment consultant was engaged and a number of highcalibre candidates were assessed.
Following a series of interviews with the Groups Executives, Mr Andrew Harvey 2 was appointed to the role.
3 Diversity Skills, knowledge and expertise of the Board The balance of experience, skills, gender and diversity of Board members thinking styles of the Board is reviewed regularly to ensure thatthe level and composition of diversity are appropriate.
B2B Whilstnoting the recommendations of the report Women Commercial and marketing onBoards Davies Review published in October 2015, the Board does not establish targets on gender balance and believes Financial qualifications all appointments to the Board and senior management team Internet economy should be based on individual merit interms of skills and relevant experience as required in order to maintain and International enhance effectiveness.
Nevertheless, the Board has discussed Legal, governance and risk control and is supportive of the refocusing of the review upon the Listed company Executive Committee and its reports, and has responded totherequest for voluntary disclosure of data inthisrespect.
M&A Spectris supports the benefits of greater diversity to attract and Manufacturing retain talented individuals at every recruitment level throughout Services the Group and promotes diversity across a range of criteria including skills, knowledge, experience, gender, age and Experience of end-user markets ethnicity.
The Board is conscious of the need to give weight Board members tothese factors in future appointments.
Further information regarding Group diversity can be found on page 45.
Academic research Re-election Aerospace All Directors will present themselves for election or re-election Automotive atthe forthcoming AGM.
Each of the Directors is unanimously recommended by the other members ofthe Board due to their Energy and utilities experience, knowledge and wider management and industry Manufacturing and machine building experience, continued effectiveness and commitment to Metals, minerals and mining their role.
Pulp, paper and tissue Gender diversity of the Board Semicon, telecoms and electronics % 1 Female Directors 2 1 2 Male Directors 6 2 63
