Governance Executive Committee Members Eoghan OLionaird Business Group Director for the Materials Analysis and Test and Measurement segments Skills and experience Eoghan OLionaird has wide-ranging engineering and commercial expertise, having previously been president of the Leica Microsystems division of Danaher Corporation inGermany.
Prior to this, he spent 11 years in Philips in a number of management roles, latterly as CEO of the respironics sleep business unit based in the USA.
He started his career with Mitsui Mining & Smelting Eoghan OLionaird Business Group Director where he held a number of engineering and commercial positions.
Appointed February 2014 Other current appointments None.
Jo Hallas Business Group Director for the In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls segments Skills and experience Jo Hallas has extensive management expertise in a range of engineering and industrial businesses, having previously been general manager, residential controls, at Invensys plc.
Prior to this, she was at the Bosch Group where she held management positions in both the UK and Germany.
She started her career at Procter & Gamble where she served in a number of management roles in Germany, the USA and Asia.
Jo Hallas Business Group Director Other current appointments Non-executive director and chairman Appointed May 2014 of the remuneration committee of Norcros plc.
Ken Smith President, Asia Pacific Skills and experience Ken Smith has over 30 years engineering and industrial business experience, 23 of which have been spent in Asia.
Having started his career in Switzerland, with various management positions in R&D and product portfolio management, he moved to Asiawhere he had a number of operational roles, including president ofSchindler Japan and president, Asia and global materials division, forDeloro Stellite.
Ken Smith President, Asia Pacific Appointed July 2012 Robin Stopford Group Head of Corporate Development Skills and experience Robin Stopford has extensive experience inleading corporate growth, from the development of the strategy through to its implementation, within diverse industrial groups such asDoncasters and Low & Bonar PLC.
Robin also spent several years at Bain & Company, the leading strategy consultants.
Robin began his career atRolls-Royce plc where he served in a variety of engineering and management roles.
Robin Stopford Group Head of Corporate Development Appointed November 2013 Andrew Harvey Group Human Resources Director Skills and experience Andrew Harvey has considerable human resources experience gained in areas including change management, talent and development, employee engagement, acquisitions and disposals.
Prior to joining Spectris in January 2017, Andrew was senior vice president human resources, GKN Automotive, and previously held the same position at GKN Aerospace.
He holds an MBA from the University ofAberdeen.
Andrew Harvey Group Human Resources Director Appointed January 2017 56
