GOVERNANCE: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2016 The UK Corporate Governance Code provides the standard for corporate governance in the UK.
The Financial Conduct Authority requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions of the UK Code throughout the financial year under review.
The Company has complied with the principles and code provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2014 the UK Code, throughout the year except as shown in the following table.
UK Code provision How has the Company not complied with the provisions of the UK Code?
2.1 From 1 July 2016, the roles of chairman and chief executive The Company will look to return to a position where have been exercised by Garry Watts.
the roles of chairman and chief executive officer are exercised by two individuals as soon as practicable.
The Board has announced its intention to appoint Andrew White as Chief Executive Officer on his full recovery from a period of sustained medical treatment.
3.1 Garry Watts was not independent on appointment to the The Non-Executive Directors have determined that Board having previously served as Executive Chairman of the Garry Watts continues to lead the Board effectively.
1.2 Between Robert Lerwills resignation on 27 June 2016 and the Robert Lerwills departure from the Board appointment of Adle Anderson as an independent Nonwas unanticipated and regretful.
Steps were taken to Executive Director on 28 July 2016, less than half of the Board, address the position as soon as practicably possible.
excluding the Executive Chairman, comprised Non-Executive The Company fully complied with each of these Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
provisions outside of this short period and continues C. 3.1 Between Robert Lerwills resignation on 27 June 2016 and to do so up to the date of this report.
the appointment of Adle Anderson as chair of the Audit and The members of the Audit and Risk Committee and Risk Committee on 28 July 2016, the Companys Audit and Remuneration Committee did not meet during these Risk Committee did not have three members or a member short periods.
designated as having recent and relevant financial experience.
D. 2.1 Between Robert Lerwills resignation on 27 June 2016 and the appointment of Adle Anderson as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 24 August 2016, the Companys Remuneration Committee did not have three members.
E. 2.3 Robert Lerwill, who was chair of the Audit and Risk Committee This was unfortunately an unavoidable occurrence.
at the time, was unable to attend the Companys annual It is intended that the full Board attend the annual general meeting on 19 May 2016 due to illness.
general meeting on 26 May 2017 when they will all be available to shareholders.
60 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
