GOVERNANCE: BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors C D E N 1.
Garry Watts Executive Chairman Garry Watts joined the Group as Executive Chairman in 2011 before becoming NonExecutive Chairman between Admission and March 2016.
He resumed the role of Executive Chairman in March 2016.
The Company does not consider Garry to be independent due to his executive role.
1 2 Current external appointments chairman of BTG plc chairman of Foxtons Group plc non-executive director of Coca-Cola European Partners Ltd Skills and previous experience A chartered accountant by profession and former partner at KPMG, Garrys extensive business knowledge and leadership on other listed company boards, including SSL International plc and Celltech Group plc, has ensured a seamless transition from private 3 4 to public for the Company.
He has a deep understanding of the healthcare sector, having served as a member of the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Supervisory Board for 17 years.
Garry was also previously an executive director of Medeva plc, deputy chairman of Stagecoach Group plc and a non-executive director of Protherics plc.
Andrew White Executive Director Andrew White joined Spire Healthcare in 5 6 November 2015 and served as Chief Operating Officer until December 2016.
He was appointed an Executive Director in July 2016.
Andrew is expected to be appointed the Companys new Chief Executive Officer once he has recovered from a period of sustained medical treatment.
He remains engaged with the business in his capacity as a Director whilst temporarily stepping down from all Board and management committees.
Skills and previous experience 7 8 Andrew began his working life in the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers and served in Bosnia, Northern Ireland and the first Gulf Board committee membership: War.
After leaving the army in 1995, Andrew A Audit and Risk Committee held senior positions at Serco plc and Nomura C Clinical Governance and Safety Committee Principal Finance Group and later Serco Nomura D Disclosure Committee Infrastructure Fund.
Andrew became CEO of N Nomination Committee Serco UK&E Local & Regional Government R Remuneration Committee division in January 2014 where he was Committee Chair responsible for all aspects of Sercos business Management committee membership: in the UK and Europe.
E Executive Committee Committee Chair 9 54 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
