STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The number of Non-Executive Directors and Directors are expected to attend all Board Board meeting attendance their range of skills and experience continues and committee meetings, and any additional The attendance of the Directors who served to be carefully reviewed.
This requirement meetings, as required.
Each Directors other during the year ended 31 December 2016, at and the number of Directors, together with significant commitments were disclosed to meetings of the Board, is shown in the table the Groups succession plans, will form part the Board at the time of their appointment below.
The number of meetings a Director of the Nomination Committee activities and and they are required to notify the Board could attend in the year is shown in brackets.
the Boards evaluation process in 2017.
The of any subsequent changes.
The Group has Executive Chairman Board considers its size and composition to reviewed the availability of the Non-Executive be appropriate for the current requirements Directors and considers that each of them Garry Watts 9 9 of the business.
is able to, and in practice does, devote Deputy Chairman and Senior the necessary amount of time to the Independent Director Committee composition is set out in the Groups business.
No one other John Gildersleeve 8 9 than committee chairs and members of the Induction and training Executive Directors committees is entitled to participate in Generally, reference materials are provided, Simon Gordon 9 9 meetings of the Audit and Risk, CGSC, including information about the Board, its Disclosure, Nomination and Remuneration committees, directors duties, procedures Rob Roger 3 4 committees, unless by invitation of the for dealing in the Groups shares and other 1 Andrew White 4 5 respective committee chair.
John Gildersleeve regulatory and governance matters, and Non-Executive Directors is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Directors are advised of their legal and 2 Independent Director.
other duties, and obligations as directors Adle Anderson 4 4 of a listed company.
Biographical details of the Directors are Tony Bourne 9 9 set out on pages 54 and 55.
On appointment, Adle Anderson completed Dame Janet Husband 9 9 a detailed induction programme that Appointments to the Board Robert Lerwill 3 4 included meeting with other members of Recommendations for appointments to Danie Meintjes 9 9 the Board and the senior leadership team.
the Board are made by the Nomination She undertook a thorough familiarisation Simon Rowlands 9 9 Committee.
The Nomination Committee of the business which included a visit to follows a formal, rigorous and transparent 1 A ndrew White was appointed an Executive Director on Spire Southampton Hospital.
The Companys 1 July 2016. procedure for the appointment of new brokers and legal adviser also met with 2 A dle Anderson was appointed an independent Directors to the Board.
Further information is Non-Executive Director on 28 July 2016.
Adle to provide insight into the healthcare set out in the Nomination Committee Report industry and provide training on directors To the extent that Directors are unable to on pages 74 and 75. statutory duties respectively.
Andrew White, attend scheduled meetings, or additional on appointment as an Executive Director, Time commitment of the meetings called on short notice, they will also received training on his statutory duties.
receive the papers in advance and relay Non-Executive Directors their comments to the Executive Chairman The Non-Executive Directors each have a The Group Company Secretary ensures that for communication at the meeting.
The letter of appointment, which sets out the any additional request for information is Executive Chairman will follow up after the terms and conditions of their directorship.
The Executive Chairman, meeting in relation to both the discussions An indication of the anticipated time through the Group Company Secretary, held and decisions taken.
commitment is provided in any recruitment ensures that there is an ongoing process role specification, and each Directors letter to review any internal or external training of appointment provides details of the Effectiveness and development needs.
meetings that they are expected to attend.
Board composition During the year, all Directors received The Board seeks to ensure that both it and Non-Executive Directors are required to set updates on the implementation and training its committees have the appropriate range aside sufficient time to prepare for meetings, on the requirements of the EUs Market of skills, experience, independence and and to regularly refresh and update their Abuse Regulation.
knowledge of the Group to enable them skills and knowledge.
In signing their to discharge their respective duties and As already noted, in the event of a general letters of appointment, all Directors have responsibilities effectively: for example, training need, in-house training will be consequently agreed to commit sufficient the 2017 Board calendar includes both provided to the entire Board.
Necessary and time for the proper performance of their sessions on clinical and statutory regulations, relevant regulatory updates are provided responsibilities, acknowledging that this will and hospital visits.
as a standing item at each Board meeting vary from year to year, depending on the in the Group Company Secretarys report Groups activities.
and Board briefing by external advisers, where appropriate.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 65
