LEADERSHIP The Board the relevant papers and asked to provide compliance with the Code.
The Chairman comments in advance of the meeting to was independent on appointment.
The Board relies on executive management the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
to run the business and monitor management The General Counsel and Company Secretary In addition, all Board and Committee activities and holds them accountable supports the Committee Chairmen in making members receive the minutes of meetings as against targets and standards.
The Board sure members are equipped for informed a matter of course.
also approves long-term corporate and decision-making and that they appropriately strategic plans after a full review and The Directors attendance record at Board allocate their time to subjects.
assessment of market and technology and Committee meetings is set out on page The Board has satisfied itself that at least trends, business drivers and risks.
The Non-Executive Directors meet without one member of the Audit Committee, namely senior management team that is capable of the Executive Directors present to discuss Clive Watson, has recent and relevant executing the strategic plans is a key focus for the Executive Directors performance and financial experience and is confident that the the Board.
collective experience of its members enables The formal schedule of matters The Senior Independent Director is available it to be effective.
The Audit Committee also reserved for the Boards decision to discuss concerns with shareholders, has access to the financial expertise of the is available on the Groups website, in addition to the normal channels of the Group, the external and internal auditors and www.
com, under the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or the can seek further professional advice at the Governance section.
There is also one Non-Executive Director, Jane Kingston, The Board has a conflicts of interest policy The Non-Executive Directors provide with relevant sector experience across a and has put in place procedures for the independent challenge and review, bringing range of different industries, including a disclosure and review of any potential or wide experience, specific expertise and a strong services background, to add additional actual conflicts.
support to the implementation of the Groups The Board meets as often as is necessary Committee composition strategy for growth.
In 2016 the Board The Non-Executive Directors play an met seven times.
All Directors are expected important governance role in the detailed to attend all Board meetings and relevant work they carry out on our Committees on Committee meetings unless prevented by behalf of the Board.
All the Non-Executive prior commitments, illness or a conflict of Directors are determined by the Board to be interest.
Directors unable to attend specific independent in character and judgement, in Board or Committee meetings are sent Division of roles and responsibilities Key Board matters Chairman Senior Independent Director Group Chief Executive The approval of corporate and Managing the Board Relations with shareholders Leadership strategic business plans Safeguarding governance Reviewing effectiveness of the The Groups short, medium The approval of the annual and Chairman as part of the annual and long-term performance Performance with the Group interim results Board evaluation Chief Executive Stewardship of capital, Trading updates technical and human resources Shareholder contact with the Integrated risk Group Chief Executive and the Corporate and management framework Group Finance Director business strategy Acquisitions disposals Director performance Internal risk management controls Major capital expenditure Succession planning Organisational structure Director appointments Material litigation 68 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Governance structure The Board Committees and their Chairmen are listed below, together with an overview of each Committees responsibilities.
The Terms of Reference for the Committees are published on the Groups website, www.
com, on the Policies and procedures page, within the Governance section.
Group Board Bill Whiteley Chairman Nomination Audit Risk Management Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Bill Whiteley Clive Watson Nicholas Anderson Jane Kingston Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Recommend Monitor the integrity of Ensure risk management Recommend a remuneration Board appointments Financial Statements is meaningful, relevant strategy and framework to and focused on improving attract, retain and reward Review succession plans Ensure significant issues the business senior executives have been addressed Risk scenario planning Determine annual Executive Review effectiveness Director and senior of internal controls, risk Risk review to ensure executive remuneration management framework, an effective and robust and internal and external management framework Approve Performance Share audit to ensure that they are Plan PSP awards Keeping the Board informed robust and integrated Determine the Business ethics review Remuneration Policy Further information on each of the Committees activities during the 12-month period to 31st December 2016 is set out on pages 71-107.
68 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 69 Governance Report 1.
LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Board activities in 2016 This was followed, in June, by the Boards Board focus during 2016 annual strategy meeting that was held at the The Board ensures good governance Groups new manufacturing and sales office practices are embedded throughout the in Chennai, India, where over 11 million Group as they are an integral part of running 5% has been invested.
In Chennai, succession 10% a successful business.
In the adjacent chart planning was high on the agenda.
we have set out how the Board spent its 35% time during 2016.
The Board agendas are In October, the Board visited the Groups new 15% carefully planned to ensure focus on the Clean Steam Facility in Cheltenham.
At this Groups strategic priorities and key monitoring meeting the Board evaluated and approved 15% activities, as well as reviews of significant the Groups acquisition of Aflex Hose Limited 20% issues.
During 2016, the Board devoted 35% for 61.4 million.
of its time to the Spirax Sarco steam and During 2016, the Board regularly reviewed Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group the Groups performance and satisfied itself Strategy WMFTG strategies, the Group 2020 plan that despite challenging trading conditions, Operations and risk and reviewing implementation progress of management was on track in delivering the Governance and shareholders the Group corporate strategy.
With the Board strategic business plan.
The Board also undertaking a risk appetite review, which People and succession concentrated its attention on formulating a determines the Groups appetite for each pro-active Brexit strategy, looking at both the Finance of its seven principal risks, 20% of time was challenges and opportunities for the Group New product development allocated to this activity.
posed by a UK exit from the EU.
The Board Health and safety is of fundamental continued to engage with shareholders on importance to the business and is considered governance, remuneration and trading during at each Board meeting.
It is also considered in the period.
detail at each Executive Committee meeting.
In February 2016, the Board met at WMFTGs headquarters in Falmouth, confirming that this is a well-governed, high performing business.
Board attendance Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings, and individual attendance by Director for 2016, are set out in the table below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Management Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 3 2 3 3 W. H. Whiteley 7 N A 2 N A N A N. J. Anderson 7 N A 2 N A 3 1 K. J. Boyd 4 N A N A N A 2 N. H. Daws 7 N A N A N A 3 J. L. Whalen 7 N A N A N A 3 2 J. S. Kingston 2 1 0 1 N A 3 J. Pike 7 3 2 2 N A G. E. Schoolenberg 7 3 2 3 N A C. G. Watson 7 3 2 3 N A 4 D. J. Meredith 3 N A N A N A 1 5 K. Rajagopal 4 1 1 2 N A N A means not applicable.
1 Appointed to the Board on 11th May 2016 and attended all Board and relevant Committee Meetings held after this date 2 Appointed to the Board on 1st September 2016 and attended all Board and relevant Committee Meetings held after this date 3 Absence due to prior commitment 4 Retired from the Board on 10th May 2016 5 Absence due to illness, prior to his death on 10th November 2016 70 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information 1.
LEADERSHIP NOMINATION COMMITTEE A number of key appointments to the Board and senior management team this year has proven that our succession planning is working well.
We continue to focus on ensuring the right balance of skills, experience and diversity amongst our Directors to promote the long-term sustainability of the Company.
Bill Whiteley, Nomination Committee Chairman Membership and attendance How the Committee spent its time during the year NUMBER OF MEETINGS 10% 2 20% 40% Committee member Attendance Committee member Attendance W. H. Whiteley 2 J. Pike 2 30% Succession planning Recruitment Diversity N. J. Anderson 2 G. E. Schoolenberg 2 Board and Committee composition 1 J. Kingston 0 C. G. Watson 2 1 Appointed 1st September 2016 K. Rajagopal attended 1 meeting prior to his death on 10th November 2016 Role of the Committee Summary of the key Committee Summary of the key areas of focus activities in 2016: for 2017: The main role of the Committee is to Appointment of KevinBoyd to the Board recommend changes to the Board Board and Committee as Group Finance Director and Executive and consider succession planning for succession planning Director, and appointment of JaneKingston as the future.
Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the succession planning Remuneration Committee Succession planning Reviewed tenure of Non-Executive Directors Reviewed Board and executive management diversity Read more onpage 72.
70 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 71 Governance Report 1.
LEADERSHIP NOMINATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED Responsibilities Make appropriate Review the structure and Recommend any proposed Consider succession recommendations to the composition of the Board changes to the Board planning arrangements for Board for the appointment, with regard to the overall Directors and, more generally, re-appointment or balance of skills, knowledge senior executives replacement of Directors and experience against current and perceived future requirements of the Group Review of 2016 The appointment of Jane Kingston is part of This will bring his total Board appointments to the succession planning being undertaken to two Chairmanships and one Non-Executive Following a rigorous and independent recruit Directors with the skills and experience Directorship.
Also in relation to the guidelines, selection process, we welcomed Kevin Boyd to support the implementation of the Groups Bill Whiteley has stepped down as Chairman as Group Finance Director on 11th May 2016. strategy for growth.
Jane brings with her a of Brammer plc.
The transition has been a smooth one, and broad range of relevant sector experience, Kevin is making valuable contributions to the With the appointment of Jane Kingston, we particularly her extensive services experience direction of the Company.
now exceed 20% gender diversity on the from her time at Compass Group PLC.
Board and we remain committed to a target Jane Kingston was appointed as an We cultivate a culture of achievement of a minimum of 25% women on our Board as independent Non-Executive Director with and career progression.
effect from 1st September 2016, and individuals are supported in their professional has joined the Audit, Remuneration and We support the promotion of women to senior development through our Leadership Nomination Committees.
In November positions throughout the Group and, during Academy, in conjunction with Ashridge 2016 Jane was appointed Chairman of the the last 12 months, women were appointed Business School, and our Advancing Remuneration Committee.
as: General Manager Turkey, Asia Pacific HR High Performance programme for senior Lead, Group Corporate Counsel, Group IT This year we put into action the managers.
We also encourage leadership Manager, General Manager Watson-Marlow recommendations from the external development through robust succession Ireland, Country Sales Manager WatsonBoard evaluation carried out by Dr Long of planning and an individualised performance Marlow Indonesia, General Manager Global Boardroom Review Ltd in 2015, with a focus management culture.
OEM, UK EHS Manager Group Supply on enhanced succession planning.
The most The Group recognises the importance of Chain, Group HR Project Manager, with a recent review of succession planning by diversity at all levels of the Company as well number of these being internal promotions.
the full Board and the executive and senior as on the Board.
We continue to offer practical support for management team was undertaken as part the Department for Business Innovation of the strategic review meeting held in June We believe that the Boards perspective and and Skills Women on Boards FTSE 2016.
We have begun to implement our approach is greatly enhanced by gender, age 250 initiative by encouraging two women succession plan to ensure that appointments and cultural diversity and it is our policy to from our senior management team to for Board roles are phased over the next few consider overall Board balance and diversity serve as Non-Executive Directors on other years with the benefit of adequate handover when appointing new Directors.
on page 63, the range of nationalities and An independent external agency, Korn Ferry, experience of our Board is particularly has been instructed to advise on the suitability relevant given the broad international reach of candidates against a job description of the Group, and we will seek to increase approved by the Committee.
Korn Ferry the diversity of our international footprint with provides no other services to the Group.
future appointments to the Board.
In compliance with the 2017 proxy voting We are committed to appropriate guidelines from Institutional Shareholder engagement with shareholders throughout Services and Glass Lewis, which recommend this process.
A review of the tenure of the that Directors should hold no more than Non-Executive Directors was undertaken two Chairmanships plus one additional as part of the succession planning and we In September 2016, Maike Nielsen, General Non-Executive Director position, Senior shall ensure that, at all times, the number of Manager Global OEM, was nominated from Independent Director Jamie Pike has independent Non-Executive Directors is the a very competitive field to participate in the announced his intention to step down as same or more than the number of Executive CBI Leadership Programme.
The programme Chairman and Director of Tyman PLC in Directors so that we remain compliant with is designed to equip the next generation May 2017. of business frontrunners with the skills and the Code.
knowledge to engage with public policy at the most senior levels both in the UK and internationally.
72 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016
