GOVERNANCE: SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM Senior leadership team 1.
Catherine Mason E Chief Operating Officer Catherine Mason joined Spire Healthcare in December 2016.
Prior to that, she spent the first half of her career in consumer goods, then made the transition to transport, and latterly moved to healthcare.
Following a degree in genetics, Catherine worked in marketing in blue chip companies on brands such as Ribena, Lucozade and 1 2 Clover.
Following an MBA at Henley Management College, she made the progression to transport initially working for Arriva in a commercial capacity then moving into operational roles in bus and rail.
Catherine was appointed group chief executive of Translink in 2008 where she oversaw public transport in Northern Ireland, and then became managing director of NATS Services in 2014.
In 2016, she made the transition to the independent healthcare 3 4 sector when she was appointed chief executive of Allied Healthcare.
Catherine is a chartered director, a fellow of the Institute of Directors, and a fellow and former vice president of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter E Group Medical Director Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter joined Bupa Hospitals as director of clinical services 5 6 in 2005 before being appointed Spire Healthcares Group Medical Director.
He is responsible for driving the Groups clinical governance and quality strategy.
Prior to joining Bupa Hospitals he served as a medical director for NHS Direct.
Jean-Jacques is a non-executive director at the Milton Keynes University Foundation Trust and chairs its Quality Committee.
Jean-Jacques graduated with a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery from Charing Cross and Westminster Medical 7 School, practised in the UK, Australia and New Zealand and subsequently completed Board committee membership: his MBA degree at Cranfield School D Disclosure Committee of Management.
Management committee membership: E Executive Committee member Committee Chair 56 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 3.
Caroline Roberts E Group Commercial Director General Counsel and Group Human Resources Director Peter Corfield joined Spire Healthcare in D E Caroline Roberts joined Spire Healthcare Group Company Secretary October 2015 as Group Commercial Director as Group Human Resources Director in Daniel Toner joined Bupa Hospitals as head and has responsibility for delivering revenue September 2015 to develop and implement of legal in 2006 before being appointed growth through our three payor groups the Companys HR strategy for growth.
In her General Counsel and Group Company and identifying new business opportunities.
role, Caroline oversees all aspects of frontline Secretary upon Spire Healthcares formation services including employment and welfare, in 2007 and is a solicitor by profession.
He Prior to joining Spire Healthcare, he held a training, education and financial advice.
oversees all legal activity at Spire Healthcare, number of senior executive and board roles ensures compliance with statutory and within the financial services industry in the Caroline has experience in a variety of regulatory requirements, and that decisions UK, most recently as managing director of sectors under public, private and private of the Board of Directors are realised.
Prior to this, Peter worked equity ownership with significant is also the Companys Whistleblowing Officer for both Zurich Financial Services Group and international exposure.
She has held a and Freedom to Speak Up Guardian.
Royal Bank of Scotland in various roles that number of senior executive and board roles, covered Europe, Middle East and Japan.
most recently as group HR director at Action Daniel is a director of NHS Partners For Employment Ltd.
Prior to this, Caroline Network, an organisation that represents worked for The Royal Mint, Terra Firma 4.
Neil McCullough independent sector organisations that Capital Investors and British Airways Plc.
Previously, he worked Business Development Director for international law firm Freshfields Neil McCullough joined Spire Healthcare on Bruckhaus Deringer, in industry and its formation in 2007 as Hospital Director at within the commercial directorate of the Spire Cambridge Lea Hospital before joining Department of Health.
In his role, Neil oversees Spire Healthcares business development strategy both at the local 6.
Antony Mannion hospital level and corporately.
Director, Strategy and Investor D E Relations Following an early career in accounting Antony Mannion joined Spire Healthcare and finance, Neil moved into healthcare in as Investor and Public Relations Director 1993 working with Bupa UK Membership, in March 2012, having spent seven years where he held a number of senior sales and at SSL International plc, until its acquisition relationship management roles.
He joined by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc in 2010, as the Bupa Hospitals business in 1998, group legal director and head of acquisitions.
holding hospital general manager roles in both Birmingham and East Anglia.
Neil then Prior to SSL International plc, Antony worked moved into preventative healthcare with as a corporate lawyer at Freshfields in Bupa Wellness in 2002, where, as sales London and Paris, then as an investment director, he led the rapid expansion of the banker at Citicorp in London and New York, business for five years.
and at Standard Chartered in Singapore.
Antony has a wide range of experience in all areas of corporate finance, and has worked on significant acquisition and IPO transactions in both the UK and overseas.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 57
