GOVERNANCE: NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT and, although Garry is not classified as an independent director, the Committee has Nomination always, and continues, to meet the requirement under its terms of reference to have a majority of independent members.
Committee Report Director and senior The Committee continues to play a vital role management changes in ensuring the right individuals are appointed I was able to report to you last year on the to lead the Company.
role of the Committee in the management changes that were agreed following Rob Rogers decision to leave the Board, with Garry Watts resuming his role as Executive Chairman from 14 March 2016 and Andrew White becoming an Executive Director from 1 July 2016.
The Committee closely monitored the transition from the announcement through to Robs departure on 30 June 2016.
Although the Company announced Andrew Whites period of sustained medical treatment, the Committee has been impressed with his leadership of the Company and enthusiasm for the role.
As a Committee we were in unanimous agreement that Andrew should become the Companys new Chief Executive Officer on his full recovery.
In May, I informed the Executive Chairman of my own intention to stand down as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
It was initially anticipated that this would happen by the end of 2016 but I will now remain in role until no later than our 2017 annual general meeting.
The Executive Chairman has led the search for a new Senior Independent Director with the assistance of Heidrick & Struggles, a senior executive search firm.
Following Robert Lerwills unanticipated departure, the Executive Chairman and the Committee moved quickly to appoint a new independent Non-Executive Director with recent and relevant financial experience who Dear Shareholder, was capable of chairing the Companys Audit The Nomination Committee the and Risk Committee.
A number of candidates John Gildersleeve Committee continues to play a vital role were put forward by Heidrick & Struggles but in ensuring that the right individuals are the Committee unanimously agreed on Adle Committee chair appointed to lead the Company and I am Anderson.
Adles knowledge of FTSE boards extremely pleased with the recommendations and experience of chairing audit committees that have been made to the Board and has meant she has speedily proved an excellent senior management.
Before I address the Committees role in these The Committee reviewed and endorsed the appointments, Id like to acknowledge some appointment of Catherine Mason as the changes to the Committees membership.
Companys new Chief Operating Officer Robert Lerwill regretfully had to step down following the recommendation of the Executive as an independent Non-Executive Director Chairman.
Members of the Committee took in June and Id like to thank him for his the opportunity to meet with Catherine prior involvement at our meetings.
Rob Roger also to her appointment and were impressed with stepped down from the Committee at the her extensive operational experience and end of June when he left the Company.
The recognised that she would make an important Board decided to appoint Garry Watts as a addition to the senior leadership team.
member of the Committee from July 2016 74 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2016 activities As a Committee our priorities during the year Nomination Committee at a glance have been to: Committee membership and meeting attendance The Nomination Committee members at the end of 2016 and the number of meetings review and recommend the Director and they each attended during the year were as follows the maximum number of senior management changes to the Board: meetings that the member could have attended is shown in brackets : evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and its Committee Committee meetings diversity, including gender: Member member since Position in Company attended in 2016 undertake a performance review: John Gildersleeve July 2014 Deputy Chairman and Senior 4 4 review the independence of each Committee Chair Independent Director Non-Executive Director, and the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and Dame Janet Husband July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 diversity on the Board prior to Director recommending Directors re-election Garry Watts July 2016 Executive Chairman 2 3 at the annual general meeting: and review and update the Committees terms Committee members biographies are shown on pages 54 and 55.
Both Robert Lerwill of reference.
and Rob Roger also served as members of the Nomination Committee until 27 June 2016 and 30 June 2016 respectively when both resigned as Directors of the Company.
Committee evaluation The Nomination Committee did not meet the requirements of its own terms of The Committee completed its second annual reference to have at least three members between the resignation of Rob Roger in June performance evaluation as part of the overall and the appointment of Garry Watts a month later.
The Committee did not meet Board evaluation process and the findings during this short period.
The majority of Committee members were independent were discussed and reviewed at a meeting in Non-Executive Directors at all times during the year, in line with the provisions of the November.
The Committee was considered UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board appoints the Chair of the Committee, who to be operating effectively in fulfilling its must be either the Chairman of the Board or an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts as secretary to Diversity and inclusion the Committee.
As a Committee we acknowledge the Role and responsibilities importance of diversity, including gender, The Committees foremost priorities are to ensure that the Group has the best possible both on the Board and throughout the leadership and a clear plan for both Executive and Non-Executive Director succession.
We pride ourselves on our Its prime focus is, therefore, to concentrate upon the strength of the Board, for which inclusive nature as a company.
appointments will be made on merit against objective criteria, selecting the best Our aim is for the Board to consist of candidate for the post.
The Nomination Committee advises the Board on these individuals with diverse experience who appointments, and also on retirements and resignations from the Board, and its can add real value to Board debates, thereby other Committees.
supporting the achievement of our strategic The Committee will regularly examine succession planning based on the Boards objectives.
This includes diversity of industry balance of skills and overall diversity.
Led by the Committee, succession planning skills, knowledge and experience in addition of the Board will form an integral part of the Boards annual strategy meeting.
We noted with interest the publication of the HamptonProcess for Board appointments Alexander review on gender leadership in When considering Board recruitment, the Committee will draw up a specification for FTSE companies, and are always mindful of a Director, taking into consideration the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the recommendations in the appointments its existing Board members, the diversity of the Board, the independence of continuing we make.
However, our overriding intent Board members, together with the ongoing requirements and strategic development in any new appointment must always be of the Group.
The search process can then focus on appointing a candidate with to select on merit, in fulfilment of our role a balance of skills that will enhance the Board.
of ensuring the continued success of The Committee will utilise the services of an executive search firm to identify the Company.
appropriate candidates, ensuring that the search firm appointed does not have any other conflicts with the Group.
In addition, the Committee will only use those firms Re-election of Directors that have adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and The Committee met in early 2017 and best practice in search assignments.
A long list of potential appointees will then be reviewed the continuation in office, and reviewed, followed by the shortlisting of candidates for interview, based upon the potential reappointment, of all members objective criteria identified at inception.
Care is taken to ensure that all proposed of the Board.
Following this review, the appointees will have sufficient time to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts Committee recommended to the Board that of interest.
The Committee will then recommend a preferred candidate and the all Directors should be reappointed, and hence Directors not on the Committee will meet the candidate.
Following these meetings, all Directors, except for me, will seek election and assuming acceptance, the Committee will make a formal recommendation to the or re-election at the annual general meeting.
Wherever possible, the Nomination Committee will arrange for all Directors to meet the preferred candidate.
John Gildersleeve Chair, Nomination Committee The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com 1 March 2017 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 75
