GOVERNANCE: AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT 2016 and 2017 Internal Audit Plans From the 2016 Internal Audit Plan, the Audit and Risk Committee received a detailed presentation from Phil Peplow, Group IT Director, on IT security and also reviewed the results of an Committee Report independently commissioned Information Assurance Health Check report.
In a world Our priority is to deliver an effective governance and where cybersecurity regularly appears in risk management framework that allows us to ensure the national headlines, it was extremely important for the Committee to understand the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting.
the challenges facing the Company and the actions being taken.
Our plan for this year again focuses on areas identified as high risk, in particular where existing regulatory controls and inspections are not considered to be sufficiently comprehensive in terms of providing independent assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls.
The specific areas of focus for 2017 include: a revenue audit: a review of physical asset assessments and maintenance through the buildings maintenance system: a review of information governance: and an audit of business continuity.
A high-level Internal Audit Plan will continue to be approved by the Committee on an annual basis.
Internal Audit function Historically, the Group has not considered it necessary to establish an Internal Audit function, in part because of the way hospitals and administration activities are structured.
Whilst the Committee acknowledges this as a basis, it agreed during the year that a formal structure for the function should be established in early 2017 and recruitment of a Head of Internal Audit is in progress.
Dear Shareholder, Risk management I would like to begin by thanking Robert This year, the Committee performed Adle Anderson Lerwill for his stewardship of the Committee a detailed review of the ongoing risk since the Companys Admission in 2014 until management identification programme Committee chair the end of June 2016 when he stepped down which is designed to: clarify roles and from the Board.
Under his leadership the responsibilities for risk management and Committee established solid foundations oversight: set out a consistent end-to-end for maintaining the highest standards of process for managing risk across the governance and risk management across business: provide the Board with a clear line the Group which I aim to build on.
of sight over the principal risks: and provide an overview of how the principal risks We have taken the decision to include are being managed.
Our review included an extra meeting in our annual schedule reports from the Group Head of Risk on the to allow more time for deep dive sessions evaluation process as well as a review of on matters of particular interest to changes to significant risks identified at the Committee.
both operating entity and Group levels.
This process will complete in 2017 and the Risk management and internal controls Committee will continue to monitor.
Internal audit and risk were two areas of particular focus for the Committee during the year and we allocated a significant proportion of each meeting to ensure a robust discussion on both matters.
68 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION An overview of the risk management and monitored the risks and associated The overall risk management framework, internal controls processes are contained on controls over the financial reporting including the Boards appetite for risk pages 48 to 53.
The Committee, with the processes, including the process by and the underlying process for capturing assistance of the Clinical Governance and which the Groups financial statements and reporting risk and control data, will Safety Committee CGSC which focuses on are prepared for publication: and continue to be reviewed by the Board key non-financial risks, including patient and reviewed reports from the external and its committees during 2017 to clinical risks, carried out the following: auditor on any issues identified during ensure that changes to reflect the new the course of its work, including on regulatory environment and best practice reviewed the work carried out by the CGSC control weaknesses.
in relation to the risks within its remit: reviewed the Groups system of internal control: Significant issues and material judgements The Audit and Risk Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The table below summarises the matters where the most material judgements have been made in relation to reporting in 2016: Matters Judgement and estimation required How the Committee gained comfort on the matter Improper Pressure to achieve results and secure bonus Management carry out a detailed review of monthly hospital revenue payments could lead management to manipulate the performance compared to forecast, in particular focusing recognition financial reporting of revenue.
This could include the: on the cut-off of revenue reported at the balance sheet date.
management manipulation of prices charged, in particular in The Group maintains effective segregation of duties to manipulation relation to PMI and NHS revenue: safeguard the integrity of pricing masterfile data on which intentional mis-coding of procedures by hospitals billing is dependent.
impacting revenue recorded: Billing to PMIs is subject to selective independent audit by misreporting of other income in the year: and representatives of the relevant PMI and issues arising are overstatement of deferred revenue at the year end.
subject to timely review by management as appropriate.
Improper The complexity of the pricing structures and the high Management routinely reconcile revenues and cash collections revenue volume of procedures undertaken present a risk as part of monthly cashflow management procedures.
recognition in relation to the accuracy of revenue recognition, Internal audit work commissioned from a third party was complexity in particular the use of incorrect codes or prices.
carried out to test the adequacy of clinical coders, which did of PMI and not raise any issues of concern.
NHS contracts The Committee noted the testing of revenue recognition, which included substantive testing of a sample of transactions back to proof of procedure and price lists.
No significant issues were noted by Ernst & Young LLP during the course of their audit.
Inappropriate Expenditure on internal capital projects is high.
As at The Committee considered the controls over capital capitalisation 31 December 2016, construction is under way on two expenditure incorporated within the Groups project of development new hospitals.
Additionally, the Group has developed management procedures, as implemented by the business costs Spire St Anthonys Hospital, and is undertaking other development team.
major projects at existing hospitals.
The Committee noted that the work carried out by Ernst & There is a risk of inappropriate capitalisation to these Young LLP supported its own independent findings in this area.
projects to enhance reported earnings.
Deferred During the year, the Group considered it to be The Committee was satisfied that the estimation of the tax taxation on appropriate to reassess the basis for calculating charge was reasonable, and that the disclosures in the Annual freehold deferred tax on the property portfolio and has now Report and Accounts were appropriate.
properties based the assessment on solely held-in-use basis.
The Committee was satisfied that any property valuation This gives rise to a material tax charge of 8.4 million assumptions and judgements that underpin the position which is excluded from tax on underlying profit.
for taxation purposes were supported by independent expert opinion.
Provisions for Such claims are typically complex.
Judgement is The Committee reviewed managements detailed report patient claims required in the estimation of the size and incidence on the status of live claims and information concerning the of claims, which is usually based on professional settlement of related claims.
It also considered the advice advice and historical information on similar claims.
provided by the Groups external legal and insurance advisers.
The Group recognised total net provisions of 3.6 million at 31 December 2016.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 69 GOVERNANCE: AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Audit risk balanced and understandable, and whether External audit At the Committees first meeting of the year, it provided the necessary information for The Committee has primary responsibility it received from Ernst & Young LLP a detailed the shareholders to assess the Groups for the relationship with, and performance plan identifying the scope of their audit for performance, business model and strategy.
This includes making the year, planning materiality and their The Committee took into account its own the recommendation on their appointment, assessment of key risks.
The audit risk knowledge of the Group, its strategy and reappointment and removal of the external identification process is considered a key performance in the year, internal verification auditor, assessing their independence on factor in the overall effectiveness of the of the factual content, comprehensive review an ongoing basis and for negotiating the external audit process.
undertaken at different levels in the Group to audit fee in conjunction with the Chief ensure consistency and overall balance, and Financial Officer.
These risks were reviewed by the Committee detailed review by senior management and during the reporting of the half year results Auditor appointment the external auditor.
The Committee was to ensure the external auditors areas of Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as the satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual audit focus remain appropriate.
Companys external auditor in July 2014 on Report and Accounts for the year ended 2016 our Admission to the London Stock Exchange, is fair, balanced and understandable, and Working relationship with although they have served the business prior has affirmed that view to the Board.
the external auditor to Listing since 2008.
Our current audit During the year, the Committee met with Recent accounting developments partner appointed by Ernst & Young LLP is the external auditor without management The Committee received updates from Debbie OHanlon who took on the role in present to provide additional opportunity for the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups 2015.
The Committee ensures that the open dialogue and feedback between both implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from external auditor adheres to The Auditing parties.
Matters typically discussed include contracts with customers, which will be Practices Boards Ethical Standard 3, which the external auditors assessment of business adopted in the year ending 31 December requires the rotation of the audit partner for risks, the transparency and openness of 2018, focusing on its implication for reported listed companies every five years.
As a result, interactions with management, confirmation results, the methodology in which the Debbie OHanlon is anticipated to serve that there has been no restriction in scope standard would be adopted, and the until 2020. placed on them by management, the implication for systems and process.
As noted, we reviewed the independence independence of their audit and how they An assessment of the impact of IFRS 16 and effectiveness of the external auditor.
I also Leases will be considered early in 2017.
We did this by: meet with the external lead audit partner ahead of each Committee meeting.
reviewing its proposed plan for the 2016 Our priorities for 2017 audit: We will continue to prioritise internal audit External financial reporting discussing the results of its audit, including in 2017 and look forward to the appointment The Committee is responsible for its views about material accounting issues of a Head of Internal Audit and their team.
monitoring, reviewing and challenging the and key judgements and estimates, and its We will monitor their work as they begin integrity of the financial statements, and audit report: to co-ordinate and deliver the internal audit ensuring compliance with legal, regulatory reviewing the quality of the people and programme we have agreed for the year.
and statutory requirements, giving due service provided by Ernst & Young LLP: and A further focus for the Committee in 2017 consideration to the provisions of the UK evaluating all of the relationships between will be embedding our agreed closer working Corporate Governance Code.
the external auditor and the Group, to relationship with the Clinical Governance determine whether these impair, or appear The external auditor provided reports for the and Safety Committee.
We will together be to impair, the auditors independence.
half year and year end reporting, including all reviewing our approach to clinical risk and significant issues, with an assessment of the The Committee recommended, and the audit, in order to recommend mitigation appropriateness of managements Board subsequently agreed, that, for the year of risks identified and provide assurance judgements.
The Committee considered that ending 31 December 2017, Ernst & Young LLP to the Board.
managements judgements were cautious, are reappointed under the current external but not overly prudent.
audit contract and the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of Ernst & At the request of the Board, the Committee Young LLP at the annual general meeting considered whether the Annual Report and in May 2017.
Accounts for the year ended 2016 was fair, Principal activities during 2016 The main activities relating to the financial year were as follows: agreeing the Committees rolling agenda for 2016: approving the terms of engagement of the external auditor, including its remuneration and reviewing its independence: approving the plan for the external audit for 2016: discussing and reviewing the Groups accounting policies and critical estimates and judgements: assessing going concern and the viability of the Group: reviewing and approving the half year results and the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2016: reviewing the development of the risk management framework for the Group, including risk appetite and risk evaluation methodology and reviewing the Group risk register: and reviewing the systems of internal control, including assessing the requirement for an internal audit function.
70 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Non-audit services and independence There are certain services termed excluded Audit and Risk Committee at a glance services that are not permitted to be Committee membership and meeting attendance provided by the external auditor, including The Audit and Risk Committee members at the end of 2016 and the number of meetings where the auditor may be required to audit they each attended during the year were as follows the maximum number of its own work, would participate in activities meetings that the member could have attended is shown in brackets : that would normally be undertaken by management or is remunerated through Committee Committee meetings a success fee structure.
Member member since Position in Company attended in 2016 Adle Anderson July 2016 Independent Non-Executive 3 3 Ernst & Young LLP provided no non-audit Committee Chair Director services to the Group during the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: 71,000 for Dame Janet Husband July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 IT services.
Going forward, all non-audit Director fees will be approved by the Committee.
Tony Bourne July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 Director Viability The Committee reviewed the process Committee members biographies are shown on pages 54 and 55.
Robert Lerwill undertaken by management to support chaired the Committee until 27 June 2016 when he stepped down as an independent and allow the Directors to make the Non-Executive Director.
The Committee The Audit and Risk Committee must have at least three members, all of whom must considered and provided input into the be independent Non-Executive Directors.
If members are unable to attend a meeting, determination of which of the Groups they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items with the Chair of principal risks and combinations thereof the Committee.
might have an impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency.
The Committee reviewed the The Committee invites the external auditor and the Chief Financial Officer to attend results of managements scenario modelling each meeting with other members of the management team attending as and when and the stress testing of these models.
Representatives of the Groups external auditor have a private session with the viability statement can be found on page 49.
Committee or Chair of the Committee whenever required.
The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts as secretary to Whistleblowing the Committee.
The Committee also continued its monitoring and oversight of the procedures Recent and relevant financial experience for the receipt, retention and treatment At least one member of the Committee must have been determined to have recent of qualifying disclosures by staff.
and relevant financial experience and Adle Anderson has been identified by the Board as meeting this requirement.
Her extensive current and previous experience which The Group offers its staff an independent included being a partner in KPMG until July 2011 and holding roles including chief and confidential service, where staff may financial officer of KPMG UK, chief executive officer of KPMGs captive insurer and register any concerns about any wrongdoing chief financial officer of KPMG Europe.
Adle Anderson also currently chairs the audit or safety at work.
The General Counsel committees of both easyJet plc and intu properties plc.
and Group Company Secretary is, as Whistleblowing Officer, responsible for the Role and responsibilities investigation of any concerns arising and The Committee has responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting and internal reporting directly to the Committee.
financial controls of the Group, for reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management systems, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Annual evaluation of the external auditor of the Group and for reporting its findings and recommendations Committees performance to the Board.
The second evaluation of the Committees These include: performance was carried out in 2016 which confirmed that it continued to receiving and reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group and half yearly perform effectively.
financial statements and any public financial announcements, and advising the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable: receiving and reviewing reports from the external auditor, monitoring its Adle Anderson effectiveness and independence, and approving its appointment and terms Chair, Audit and Risk Committee of engagement: 1 March 2017 agreeing the annual internal audit programme, including the use of internal resource or external consultants to undertake the programme, and reviewing the results: monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management system: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and assessing and advising the Board on the internal financial, operational and compliance controls: and overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and relating to whistleblowing.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 71
