CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Group is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance.
The following section will detail how the UK Corporate Governance Code has been applied during the year.
CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Report, which confirms that for the year ended 24 April 2016, the Group has complied with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
During our continuing search for Non-Executive Directors, we are actively encouraging applications from women.
Throughout the year the Board has actively engaged with shareholders through various meetings and lengthy written correspondence.
Board members have travelled to a number of locations in order to communicate with shareholders, and have sought guidance from our Company Secretarial team when necessary.
Key topics of discussion throughout the year have included recruitment, legal matters, expansion and corporate governance matters.
Additional details of the Groups strategy can be found on page 18.
As Chairman of the Board I feel honoured to be surrounded by fellow members who are so passionate about their roles.
The Board is committed to maintaining the principles of governance, by actively questioning, challenging and endeavouring to understand the Executive.
Throughout the year one-to-one meetings have been held between Executive and Non-Executive Board members in order that Non-Executive Board members can gain a fuller understanding of what is taking place in the Group.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal controls systems sits with the Board.
This is an ongoing process which relates to the identification, evaluation, management and monitoring of significant risks.
This complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in September 2014.
The main principles of the Code are: LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION 47 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board has reviewed the Companys corporate governance processes and policies, and has concluded that during the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2016 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
THE BOARD The Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, Keith Hellawell, the Executive Deputy Chairman, Mike Ashley, two other Executive Directors, and three further Non-Executive Directors.
The names, skills and short profiles of each member of the Board are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure that there is the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
ROLE OF THE BOARD The role of the Board is to ensure the overall long-term success of the Group.
This is achieved through the review, development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
The Board also maintains responsibility for corporate responsibility, accountability and to ensure effective leadership is delegated to management for the day to day running of the Group and ensures an appropriate strategy is in place for succession planning.
The Board has a programme in place to enable it to discharge its responsibility of providing effective and entrepreneurial leadership to the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
The Board plans to meet on a formal basis five times during the year with up to four additional strategy meetings at convenient times throughout the year when broader issues concerning the strategic future of the Group will be discussed.
The Board will meet on other occasions as and when the business demands.
During FY16 the Board formally met on six occasions.
A detailed agenda is established for each meeting, and appropriate documentation is provided to Directors in advance of the meeting.
Regular board meetings provide an agenda that will include reports from the Chief Executive, reports on the performance of the business and current trading, reports on meetings with investors, reports from Committees of the Board and specific proposals where the approval of the Board is sought.
The Board will monitor and question monthly performance and review anticipated results.
Areas discussed include investor relations, human resources and health and safety.
The Board also receives updates on areas including risk management and internal control systems.
Presentations are also given on business or strategic issues where appropriate, and the Board will consider at least annually the strategy for the Group.
Minutes of the meetings of Committees of the Board are circulated to all members of the Board, unless a conflict of interest arises, to enable all Directors to have oversight of those matters delegated to Committees, and copies of analysts reports and brokers notes are provided to Directors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued In an effort to secure the long-term future of the Group, the Board has created a high performance culture within the Group by devising stretching Share Schemes as well as a share scheme for senior members of management.
It is the responsibility of the Directors to ensure that the accounts are prepared and submitted.
Having assessed the current Annual Report, along with the accounts, the Directors confirm that, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Directors do confirm that these documents provide the necessary information in order for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
KEY ACTIVITIES Ensuring the long-term success of the Group Considering the obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders Considering the effect the Groups activities have on the environment and community in which it operates Maintaining a high business reputation Maintaining relationships with suppliers, customers and the wider community There is a formal schedule of matters that require Board approval: they are matters that could have significant strategic, financial or reputational effects on the Group as a whole.
MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD Sets budgets Monitors and reviews strategy and business performance Approves acquisitions, expansions into other regions countries Appointments and removal of Board members Succession planning Overall responsibility for internal control and risk management as described on pages 36 to 40 THE CHAIRMAN AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive is in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
However, they work closely together to ensure effective decision-making and the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
48 The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and that all Directors are able to play a full part in the activities of the Company.
He ensures that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chairman officiates effective communication with shareholders and ensures that the Board understands the views of major investors, and is available to provide advice and support to members of the Executive team.
The Executive Deputy Chairman is an ambassador for the Company.
He takes the lead in the strategic development of the Company, formulating the vision and strategy in conjunction with the Chief Executive.
The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, whose wholly-owned companies, MASH Holdings Limited and MASH Beta Limited, currently hold approximately 4.43% and 50.71% respectively of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares.
This agreement is described in the Directors Report on page 44.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Groups business for the delivery of the strategy, leading the management team and implementing specific decisions made by the Board to help meet shareholder expectations.
The Chief Executive reports to each board meeting on all material matters affecting the Groups performance.
No one individual has unfettered power of decision.
Given the structure of the Board, the fact that the Chairman and Chief Executive roles are fulfilled by two separate individuals and the terms of the Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Board believes that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The rest of the Board consists of three Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to understand the Group in its entirety and constructively challenge strategy and management performance, set Executive remuneration levels and ensure an appropriate succession planning strategy is in place.
They must also ensure they are satisfied with the accuracy of financial information and that thorough risk management processes are in place.
The Non-Executive Directors have excellent experience from a wide range of sectors.
The Non-Executive Directors assist the Board with issues such as governance, internal control, remuneration and risk management.
Simon Bentley is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He supports the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and is available to shareholders if they have concerns.
THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Non-Executive Directors are required to disclose prior appointments and other significant commitments to the Board and are required to inform the Board of any changes to or additional commitments.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors external appointments can be found on page 42 and 43.
Before accepting new appointments, Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain approval from the Chairman, and the Chairman requires the approval of the whole Board.
It is essential that no appointment causes a conflict of interest or jeopardises the Non-Executive Directors commitment and time spent with the Group in their existing appointment.
THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE The Group considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Each year the Board evaluations consider the independence of each Board member.
The most recent evaluations did not highlight any Directors who lacked independence.
The Board continues to support our longest serving Non-Executive Director, Simon Bentley, who has been a Board member since 2007.
The Board greatly values Simons independent experience and his continuing input to the Group.
In supporting Simon the Board has taken full account of the Codes requirements to consider carefully a Non-Executive Directors independence where that director has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has set procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest that arise.
During the year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any transactional conflicts of interest concerning Directors that arose and were declared.
No Director took part in the discussion or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict of interest.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - RE-ELECTION The Group complies with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and all Directors offer themselves for re-election every year.
The Board has determined that all Directors must put themselves forward for re-election at the 2016 AGM to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Retiring Directors may seek reappointment if willing and eligible to do so and if so recommended by the Nomination Committee.
All Directors appointed by the Board are appointed after consideration of the recommendations of the Nomination Committee, and those so appointed must stand for reappointment at the following AGM.
Details of Executive Directors service contracts, and of the Chairmans and the Non-Executive Directors appointment letters, are given on pages 58 to 60.
Copies of service contracts and of appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE - TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT All newly appointed Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to their existing skills and experience.
The Board is informed of any material changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business.
49 All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and each Director and each Board Committee may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, subject to prior notification to the other Non-Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
Appropriate Directors and Officers Insurance is maintained by the Company.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The practices and processes of the Board are evaluated on a yearly basis, with the most recent evaluation being led internally.
Following evaluations the feedback obtained is considered and the Board act on the learnings which have come to light.
During 2015, the evaluation was undertaken internally.
BOARD COMMITTEES To assist the Board with their duties, there are three principal Board Committees, being the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The Committees are governed by terms of reference which provide detail of matters delegated to each Committee and the authority they have to make decisions.
Full terms of reference are available on request and on the Companys website.
Attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year and the total number of meetings that they could have attended are set out in the table below.
All Directors attended all meetings of the Board and of Committees of the Board of which they were members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The Board is satisfied that currently no one Director exercises a disproportionate influence.
Board MeetingsBoard MeetingsAudit Committee Remuneration Nomination Scheduled Unscheduled Meetings Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Keith Hellawell 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 Mike Ashley 6 6 4 4 - - - Simon Bentley 6 6 3 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 Dave Forsey 6 6 4 4 - - - Dave Singleton 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 Claire Jenkins 6 6 3 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 Matt Pearson 6 6 4 4 - - - Note: A number of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee meetings were attended by Board members who were not members of the Committees.
The Board members concerned attended these meetings at the invitation of the Committee members.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued The meetings which took place throughout the year were a mixture of both scheduled meetings, for general matters, and unscheduled meetings, for more urgent matters.
All scheduled meetings were attended by all existing Committee members.
Following unscheduled meetings all absent members were subsequently given the opportunity to review the information and endorse or question the decisions made.
This ensured that all members could have their thoughts recorded, even though they werent available during the meeting itself.
There were a number of meetings throughout the year which were solely for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Meetings also took place which were attended by Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman.
These meetings enabled the Non-Executive Directors to discuss matters which they perhaps could not discuss with the Executive Directors and or the Non-Executive Chairman present.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 2016 Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2016.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of risk management, and has reviewed the key risks together with the associated controls and mitigating factors.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of internal audit work within the Group and believes that it is adequate for the size, structure and business risks of the Group and is supplemented with appropriate external resources where needed.
The Audit Committee has an important role to play in effective reporting to our stakeholders and ensuring high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process.
This report provides an overview of: What the Committee has done during the year, and what is planned for 2017: The effectiveness of its activities: How it has assessed the effectiveness of the external auditors, including ensuring their independence: and The Committees opinion on the Annual Report when viewed as a whole.
MEMBERSHIP 50 The Audit Committee comprises me as Chairman, and all of the Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors profiles on pages 42 and 43.
MEETINGS The Committee met four times during the year and attendance at those meetings is shown on page 49.
At the invitation of the Committee members, the Group Chairman, Chief Executive and the Acting Chief Financial Officer are invited to attend Committee meetings, as are the external and internal auditors.
After the meetings attended by the external auditors, we met with them without the presence of Executive Directors or management.
In addition I meet with the auditors regularly, as and when needed.
The Committee frequently requests that Executive Directors and senior managers attend meetings in order to reinforce a strong culture of risk management and to keep the Committee up to date with events in the business.
THE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INCLUDE: Assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and external audits and controls.
Agreeing the scope of the annual external audit and the annual internal audit plan and monitoring the same.
Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditors and relationships with them.
Agreeing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work that may be undertaken.
Reviewing and agreement of the external audit fees.
Monitoring, making judgements and recommendations on the financial reporting process and the integrity and clarity of the Groups Financial Statements.
Reviewing and monitoring, throughout the year, the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management policies and systems in place, including a review of the activities of the internal audit function.
Monitoring the audit of the annual and consolidated accounts including a review of the Letter of Representation, Audit Findings report and engagement letters.
Reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities and the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
Monitored the effectiveness of internal controls, and also considered the current economic climate and its likely impact on the Group.
Considered the reappointment of the external auditors for 2017, following an audit tender process.
Reviewed accounting policies, presentations and the Financial Statements.
INTERNAL CONTROLS As one of the fastest-growing retailers with rapidly expanding overseas and internet operations, we have many complex operational risks to manage.
The audit reviews led by the long established Retail Support Unit have led the way, through their audits across the retail operations each year, in providing comfort over the efficiency of controls over the operational procedures and systems which help to generate and report the numbers within the Financial Statements, and will continue to do so.
Conscious of the rate of growth, increasing complexity and the increase in responsibility that we as an Audit Committee have in reviewing the internal controls throughout the year, we work alongside BDO who are our internal audit advisers.
BDO have specialists experienced in auditing the strategies and plans put in place to mitigate risks to further strengthen the control environment.
BDO performed an audit needs assessment in 2015 based on its understanding of the retail sector and potential risks facing Sports Direct.
In consultation with us BDO developed a programme of targeted internal audits to provide assurance to the Audit Committee regarding the management of specific priority areas.
This programme of audits was approved by the Audit Committee in 2015 and is revisited annually.
Reviews are being carried out in accordance with the agreed programme and reports are presented at each meeting of the Audit Committee.
In addition to the work carried out by BDO, as Chair of the Audit Committee, I am presented with reports and presentations from management on the mitigations of key risks.
The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
Information on the Groups approach to internal control and risk management is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 47 to 55.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS On an annual basis, the Committee considers the reappointment of the auditors and their remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board.
The auditors are appointed each year at the AGM.
The Committee consider the level of service provided by the auditors and their independence.
Under the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, audit services must be put to tender at least every 10 years or else we must explain why we have not done so.
Our current auditors, namely Grant Thornton UK LLP, have been in place since the listing in February 2007.
In light of the above we put the external audit services to tender for the audit of the period ending April 2017.
Following a competitive tender process, overseen by the Audit Committee, a recommendation was approved by the Board of Sports Direct International plc to 51 re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as its auditor.
This appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP will be recommended to Sports Directs shareholders for approval at the 2016 AGM.
I am pleased that we have conducted what I believe has been a very thorough, open and transparent audit tender process.
We thank Grant Thornton UK LLP for their significant contribution as Sports Directs auditors, and look forward to working with them in the future.
The Committee took a number of factors into account in its assessment including but not limited to: The quality and scope of the planning of the audit in assessing risks and how the external auditors planned to evolve the audit to respond to changes in the business: The quality and timeliness of reports provided to the Committee and the Board: The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses and the retail sector: The objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around the Group and the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which required management judgement: and A review of external reports published, for example by the FRC, in respect of Grant Thornton.
The Committees view following this assessment was positive in relation to their evaluation of the work of the external auditors and they felt that high standards had been maintained.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective.
The Committee believes their independence, the objectivity of the external audit and the effectiveness of the audit process is safeguarded and remains strong.
This is displayed through their robust internal processes, their continuing challenge, their focused reporting and their discussions with both management and the Audit Committee.
To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external auditors are required to rotate audit partners for the Group audit every five years and the current lead partner has been in place for three years.
The Committee has approved a policy on the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit work, in order to ensure that the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups Financial Statements is not or may not be seen to be impaired, and has established a process to monitor compliance.
The external auditors may carry out certain categories of non-audit work that have either been pre-approved by the Committee or the Board, depending on the nature and monetary value of the services to be provided.
The policy also prohibits the auditors auditing their own work and making management decisions.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued The policy identified three categories of potential work.
Auditor Authority Type of Work Work the auditor may not provide as The work includes the preparation of accounting entries or Financial Statements, IT systems completing the task could create a design and implementation, management of projects and tax planning where the outcome threat to independence.
would have a material impact on the Financial Statements or where the outcome is dependent upon accounting treatment.
Work the auditor may undertake with Corporate finance services, acquisition due diligence, management consultancy and secondment of staff other than for the preparation of accounting entries or Financial the consent of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Work the auditor may undertake.
There are services that the auditors may provide as the work is clearly audit-related and there is no potential threat to independence, including regulatory reporting and acting as reporting accountants.
The Company is satisfied that its policy falls within the requirements of the Auditing Practices Board.
The Committee reviewed the nature and extent of non-audit fees expended on transactions, pensions and tax advisory services, tax compliance, the review of the half year report and other assurance related services, and the Committee concluded that the safeguards set out above were sufficient so as not to compromise auditor independence or objectivity.
The Committee has considered the new Public Interest Entity regulations that were enacted on 17 June 2016 and are relevant for accounting periods commencing on or after this date.
We will be reviewing the impact of these changes further with our auditors in the near future.
REVIEWED ACCOUNTING POLICIES, PRESENTATIONS AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board asked the Committee to advise on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups business model, strategy and performance.
The Committee reviewed the process for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process included the following key elements: Review of new regulations and reporting requirements with external advisers to identify additional information and disclosures that may be appropriate.
Preparation of a detailed timetable and allocation of drafting responsibility to relevant internal teams with review by an appropriate senior manager.
52 Provision of an explanation of the requirements of fair, balanced and understandable to those with drafting responsibility.
Monitoring of the integrity of the Financial Statements and other information provided to shareholders to ensure they represented a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups financial performance and position.
Review of significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the Financial Statements.
Review of all sections of the report by relevant external advisers.
Review by the senior manager working group responsible for the Annual Report process.
Interim progress review of process and report content with the Audit Committee.
Review of a paper presented to the Committee, which set out to review the contents of the Annual Report and substantiate why it provided a fair, balanced and understandable view of the year under review.
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and has confirmed it is fair, balanced and understandable.
FINANCIAL REPORTING The Committees review of the interim and full year Financial Statements focused on the following areas of significance: Risk of fraud in revenue recognition The Committee have reviewed the revenue recognition policies for all material revenue streams.
They have also reviewed and considered the audit findings and the overall control environment in place surrounding the recognition of revenue and is satisfied that revenue has been correctly recognised in the Financial Statements.
Accounting for the acquisition of the remainder of Heatons The Committee has reviewed the accounting for the acquisition of the remainder of Heatons.
They have considered managements paper that sets out the judgements and estimates made in the assessment of the fair value on derecognising the existing investment and the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired on 13 November 2015.
They are satisfied that the accounting treatment reflected in the financial statements is correct.
Foreign currency forward contracts and options The Committee has reviewed the accounting treatment of these contracts and are satisfied that these have been correctly reflected in the financial statements, that appropriate documentation is in place and that the requirements of the accounting standards IAS 39 have been complied with.
They have also reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements and the audit findings in respect of both forward contracts and written option arrangements.
They have considered the impact on the future financial performance of the Group given the results of the recent EU referendum.
Carrying value of inventory - the Committee has reviewed the basis on which the inventory provision is calculated and is satisfied with the reasonableness and consistency of model applied and that stock is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Related parties the Committee has reviewed the disclosures of related party transactions and balances in the financial statements and is satisfied that the disclosures are complete in respect of all material items.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the level of rigor applied by the external auditors in addressing these areas as part of the audit procedures.
REVIEW OF OWN EFFECTIVENESS After undertaking a review of its own performance the Committee concluded that it had been effective in discharging the obligations entrusted to it by the Board.
Simon Bentley Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 7 July 2016 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors profiles on page 42 and 43.
The Remuneration Committee consists solely of Non-Executive Directors who are considered independent.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board to ensure that Executive and Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate levels of pay and benefits.
A key priority is to ensure that remuneration policy is aligned with strategy to achieve the long-term success of the Group.
The Committee ensures that it complies with the requirements of regulatory and governance bodies including the UK Corporate Governance Code while meeting stakeholder, shareholder and staff expectations.
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE INCLUDE: Determining the Companys policy on Executive remuneration, including the design of bonus schemes and targets and payments made thereunder.
Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and each of the Executive Directors.
Monitoring the remuneration of senior management and making recommendations in respect thereof.
Agreeing any compensation for loss of office of any Executive Director.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a year and met on four occasions during FY16.
A report on the remuneration of Directors appears on pages 56 to 62.
53 Worked on the Share Scheme, including announcements and assessing the likelihood of achieving targets etc.
Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report contained on pages 56 to 62.
Full details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 62.
Dave Singleton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 July 2016 NOMINATION COMMITTEE In my role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I ensure that the Board remains competent, balanced and effective.
These goals are achieved in a number of ways, including monitoring the succession of the Board, reviewing its performance and identifying and nominating suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies.
The aim of the Committee is to ensure that the Board remains balanced, knowledgeable and diverse in order that it is able to fully meet the needs of the Group.
Going forward we aim to continue to manage the transition of the Board, in particular the addition of new NonExecutive Directors, through meetings with candidates both at interviews and at networking events, consulting with other Committee members regarding their views on the suitability of candidates, and discussing the key requirements of the Group with Board members.
The Nomination Committee will usually meet twice a year and will also meet when appropriate.
The Committee met formally on three occasions during FY16.
All of the Nomination Committee members are Non-Executive Directors and are considered to be independent.
See page 49 regarding Simon Bentleys independence.
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE INCLUDE: Reviewing the leadership needs of the Group, looking at both Executives and Non-Executives.
Reviewing the composition, structure and size of the Board, and making recommendations to the Board of adjustments that are deemed necessary.
Giving consideration to succession planning for Directors, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise therefore needed on the Board.
Ensuring that Directors are aware of what is expected of them.
Formally documenting the appointment of Directors.
Identifying potential candidates for senior posts, and making recommendations to the Board as and when necessary.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued The Board has established a Nomination Committee to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Nomination Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and the Chief Executive who are not present at meetings when the matter is discussed.
Succession plans are reviewed by the Nomination Committee at least once a year.
Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, will usually attend meetings of the Nomination Committee, unless the Nomination Committee is dealing with matters relating to him or with the appointment of his successor.
Assisted with the search for a Finance Director and recommended the interim appointment of Matt Pearson from 4 June 2015.
The committee reviewed this appointment in 2015 and agreed that Matt should continue in this role for the foreseeable future.
Facilitated the search for Non-Executive Directors and reviewed the steps taken towards making an appointment.
Candidates met with members of the Committee in order that the Committee were able to form a conclusion regarding recommendations.
Reviewed the top management structure in place.
Made recommendations as to changes which may be required in order to strengthen the position of the Group in future.
Met with corporate governance bodies and reviewed the feedback given.
The Board believes that the Board and its Committees as currently constituted are working well.
Dr Keith Hellawell QPM Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Board 7 July 2016 UK BRIBERY ACT The Group has an approved policy in place which was created following the introduction of the UK Bribery Act.
As a result of the Act, all policies and procedures were reviewed to ensure that they complied with the Act and measures are in place to prevent staff being offered and or accepting bribes.
54 BUSINESS MODEL Our business model, which sets out the basis on which the Company generates or preserves value over the longer term, and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company, can be found at pages 17 and 18.
WHISTLE-BLOWING There is a formal whistle-blowing policy in place for staff who wish to raise issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities on a confidential basis.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of communicating with shareholders.
This is done through the Annual Report and general meetings, and announcements.
All Directors are available at, and following, the AGM when shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive regularly meet with the Companys institutional shareholders to discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance within the constraints of information already available to the public.
All other Board members are also available to meet with shareholders, as and when required.
The Companys corporate website is an important tool of communication, which should be used as the first port of call for shareholders.
The site holds all London Stock Exchange announcements, together with downloadable investor presentations, share price charts and brand information.
During the year members of the Board and senior management have met with shareholders in order to discuss their queries.
The meetings have been considered an opportunity not only to recognise the matters which are of importance to shareholders, but also for shareholders to recognise how the Group operates.
The shareholder meetings that have taken place during the year include face to face meetings, individual and group conference calls, letters and emails.
REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining and reviewing remuneration policy and setting remuneration levels.
See Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 62.
SHARE DEALING CODES Following the implementation of the Market Abuse Regulation on 3 July 2016, the Group adopted a new share dealing code for its persons discharging managerial responsibilities PDMRs.
This code includes notification obligations for PDMRs, and prohibits them from dealing in any shares in the Company during closed periods.
Details concerning the share capital structure of the Company can be found in the Directors Report on pages 44 to 46.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group accounts are set out below or cross-referred to other parts of the Annual Report where relevant.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
ASSESSMENT OF BUSINESS RISK A system to identify, assess, and evaluate business risk is embedded within the management processes throughout the Group.
Strategic risks are regularly reviewed by the Board and its Committees.
Risks relating to the key activities within the subsidiary operating units are assessed continuously.
Further details of the risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups business, and how the Group seeks to mitigate these, can be found on pages 36 to 40.
By Order of the Board Cameron Olsen Company Secretary 7 July 2016 55
