GOVERNANCE: CLINICAL GOVERNANCE AND SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT Our work is based on a Quality Governance Framework which brings together the results Clinical Governance and of clinical reviews, the clinical scorecard and a number of key performance indicators to give us, and the Board, assurance on the Safety Committee Report quality of services provided across all our hospitals.
It enables benchmarking of clinical During 2016, we continued to develop a robust and effective services between individual hospitals and, clinical governance framework, aiming to ensure that our over time, provides indicators of trends in hospital quality.
hospitals and clinics consistently deliver the highest quality During the year under review this healthcare for all our patients.
framework has developed well, giving us robust information and good indications of progress.
Regulatory inspections The Committee reviews the outcomes of inspection reports from the Care Quality Commission CQC, covering our hospitals in England, and from Healthcare Inspectorate Wales HIW and Healthcare Improvement Scotland HIS.
Our Quality Governance Framework mirrors the CQCs five domains of well-led, caring, responsive, effective and safe.
At the time of writing, all Spire hospitals have received their first new format CQC inspections.
Details of the results of those inspections published to date are given in the Clinical review on pages 36 to 39 of the Strategic Report.
While the CQC reports have identified a number of areas for improvement, overall they reflect well on the quality of our care.
Looking back over the programme of CQC visits, there is no doubt that as an organisation, we have benefited from the scrutiny that they provide.
The work undertaken by the clinical team throughout our group, involving clinical reviews and preparation for CQC visits, has helped us to identify areas for improvement and has Dear Shareholder, brought teams together, improving the On behalf of the Clinical Governance and culture within our hospitals as our staff Professor Dame Safety Committee the Committee or have worked towards a common goal.
CGSC, I am pleased to present our report Janet Husband During 2017, the Committee will continue to for the year ended 31 December 2016 and review progress in responding to regulatory Committee chair to outline our plans for the coming year.
This is my second report on the Committees oversight of the Companys clinical services, 2016 activities promotion of best practice and clinical During 2016, the CGSC met on six occasions, governance.
five of which were at a Spire Healthcare The paramount importance of consistently hospital and one at the Companys London delivering care of the highest quality to our head office.
Hospitals visited included Spire patients is recognised across the business St Anthonys, Spire Washington, Spire and I would like to acknowledge the support Parkway, Spire Cardiff and Spire Hull and East the Committee has received from the Board Riding hospitals.
and senior leadership team as well as The hospital visits give the Committee individual hospitals and their front-line valuable time to hear from local hospital clinical staff.
teams on their plans for future development of clinical services and investment as well as to learn about the challenges they face in the ever changing healthcare landscape.
72 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We have also gained greater insights by meeting consultants and members of staff Clinical Governance and Safety Committee at a glance on an individual and informal basis.
As a Committee membership result we have been able to undertake The Clinical Governance and Safety Committee must have at least two members, deeper dives, pursuing areas of concern one of whom must be an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board appoints and gaining assurance that issues are dealt the Chair of the Committee who must be an independent Non-Executive Director.
with in an appropriate and timely manner.
Committee Committee meetings During our programme of work the Member member since Position in Company attended in 2016 Committee also reviewed the clinical Dame Janet Husband July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 6 6 matters on the Companys Whistleblowing Committee Chair Director Register and the investigation reports into whistleblowing concerns raised during Tony Bourne July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 6 6 the year.
Director The Committee continued its programme Garry Watts July 2014 Executive Chairman 5 6 of themed reviews which this year included Andrew White July 2016 Executive Director 2 3 presentations on: The maximum number of meetings that the member could have attended during 2016 patient involvement in service is shown in brackets.
Committee members biographies are shown on pages 54 and 55. development: Rob Roger was also a member of the Committee until 30 June 2016. clinical training and recruitment: clinical claims rates and management: and The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts as secretary to the quality assurance of services, particularly Committee.
Role and responsibilities Hospital visits These include: I have also continued my own programme promoting a culture of high quality and safe patient care and experience: of informal personal visits to our hospitals.
reviewing the Group Medical Directors Clinical Assurance Report and the quarterly I have now visited every one of our hospitals review of serious adverse events: and both of our state-of-the-art specialist monitoring patient health and safety matters: cancer centres the latter, of course, being reviewing patient information governance matters: my area of particular professional interest.
reviewing the clinical matters on the Whistleblowing Register: and During my visits I have enjoyed meeting promoting continuous clinical improvements.
groups of frontline staff to gain understanding of the culture within their The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com hospitals, the challenges and pressures they face in their roles, and their motivations We will also continue our planned themed robust assurance to the Board.
Furthermore in working for Spire Healthcare.
I have been review programme in 2017, with areas of we will be feeding into and monitoring the strongly impressed with the sense of family, focus to include chemotherapy, pharmacy, progress of the development of a robust particularly within our smaller hospital Specialist Cancer Care Centres as well clinical risk register, linking individual teams.
I have met many colleagues who have as a review of the quality data due to be hospital risk registers with the overall worked for Spire for many years.
But I have published by the Private Healthcare corporate risk register.
also detected some concern over pressure Information Network PHIN from April 2017. of work, staff shortages and the difficulty in I look forward to reporting further progress recruiting suitably skilled staff, particularly in our continued development of robust in areas such as theatres and critical care.
Developing our work and effective clinical governance across all These concerns are linked to national issues, The Committees approach and areas of Spire Healthcares hospitals during 2017. but I am pleased to say that the Company focus continue to develop, linked to our is developing a human resources strategy annual evaluation of performance.
For Professor Dame Janet Husband DBE to address the challenge.
example, as part of our clinical governance FMedSci, FRCP, FRCR programme the Group Medical Director has Chair, Clinical Governance and Safety been instrumental in reviewing our approach Committee meetings in 2017 Committee to serious adverse events SAEs, to improve After our end of year evaluation of 1 March 2017 the reporting of SAEs, and the process of Committee format, agendas and root cause analysis and developing a more performance, we have decided to continue standardised approach to the reporting the successful plan of holding some of our of such incidents across the Group.
These will continue to be scheduled to take place ahead of Board In the coming year, a major focus will be meetings, so that there is a timely flow of linking more closely with the Audit and information on clinical governance matters Risk Committee and its new chair, Adle to the other Board Directors.
Together we will review our this Ward to Board approach to clinical approach to clinical risk and audit, reviewing governance creates genuine value for both arrangements in order to improve the Board as well as to our hospital managers understanding and making recommendations and their staff.
to mitigate any risks identified and to provide Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 73
