Directors Report Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, The Audit Committee assists the On behalf of the Audit Committee, Im pleased to present our report for 2015 16 which sets Board in discharging its responsibilities out the role, composition and activities of the Committee during the year.
in relation to financial reporting, Committee Changes internal audit, external audit, internal As part of the Boards succession planning strategy, the membership of the Audit control and risk management.
Committee was refreshed during the year.
Richard Gillingwater ceased to be a member when he became Chairman of the Board on 23 July 2015.
I was delighted to welcome two new members to the Audit Committee with the appointment of Crawford Gillies on 1 August 2015 and Helen Mahy on 1 March 2016.
Through an independent mindset and diversity of professional background including experience in finance, risk, governance, management and the energy sector, each member is able to make a valuable contribution to the deliberations of the Audit Committee.
FRC Letter As reported in the Audit Committee Report last year, SSE received a letter from the FRC which raised a number of queries from its review of the 2014 Annual Report.
Following engagement with the FRC, we have provided additional information and explanation in both the 2015 and 2016 Annual Reports.
I am pleased to report that the FRC have confirmed that all matters raised have been adequately addressed, and we remain committed to developing our approach to reporting in the coming years.
External Auditor KPMG were appointed as SSEs External Auditor in 1999.
The Audit Committee oversees the process for monitoring the objectivity, independence, effectiveness and ongoing relationship with the External Auditor.
Full details of how we have approached this during 2015 16 are set out in our report, which includes further details on our Members and meetings Non-Audit Services Policy and a timeline for the tender of the external audit contract to support Independent nonour explanation of non-compliance with section Members Executive Director Member since Attended scheduled C. 3.7 of the Code.
Peter Lynas Yes July 2014 4 4 Sue Bruce Yes July 2014 4 4 Areas of focus 1 The report that follows explains the work of Crawford Gillies Yes August 2015 3 3 the Audit Committee during the year which has 2 Helen Mahy Yes March 2016 n a focused on five main areas: Financial Reporting 3 and Significant Financial Judgements: Internal Richard Gillingwater n a May 2007 1 1 Audit: External Audit: Internal Control and Risk Management: and Governance.
Looking forward 1 Crawford Gillies became a member of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2015.
2 Helen Mahy became a member of the Audit Committee on 1 March 2016. to the next 12 months, we will continue to keep 3 Richard Gillingwater ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 23 July 2015. our activities under review to ensure that the work of the Audit Committee assists the Board and supports the delivery of SSEs strategy, values and governance.
Peter Lynas Chairman of the Audit Committee 84 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
Role Composition Meetings of the Audit Committee are also The Audit Committee is authorised by the Members of the Audit Committee are appointed routinely attended by the: Company Chairman: Board to: by the Board following recommendation by Chief Executive: Finance Director: Managing - review the integrity of the interim and annual the Nomination Committee.
The current Director, Finance: Group Financial Controller: financial statements: membership of the Audit Committee is set out Director of Risk, Audit and Insurance: and the - review the appropriateness of accounting in the table opposite.
External Auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
Throughout policies and practices: the year, a number of other senior managers - review the significant issues and judgements The Board has confirmed that each member of were invited to attend certain meetings to provide considered in relation to the financial the Audit Committee is independent and that the a deeper level of insight into particular items of statements, including how each was membership meets the requirements of the Code.
This gave the Audit Committee the addressed: Peter Lynas is considered by the Board to have opportunity to meet management and discuss, - review the content of the Annual Report and recent and relevant financial experience as the debate and challenge on a range of matters.
Accounts and advise the Board on whether, current Group Finance Director of BAE Systems taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and plc and a Fellow of the Chartered Association of The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets understandable: Certified Accountants.
The Deputy Company separately with the Finance Director, Director - review and monitor the effectiveness of the Secretary is secretary to the Audit Committee.
of Risk, Audit and Insurance, other senior Internal Audit function, including approval management, and the External Auditor on a of the audit plan: On joining the Audit Committee, new members regular basis to ensure the work of the Audit - review and monitor the objectivity and receive an induction tailored to their individual Committee is focused on key and emerging independence of the External Auditor, requirements which provides an overview of the issues.
The Audit Committee meets with the including the policy to govern the provision business, its financial dynamics, principal risks External Auditor and management separately of non-audit services: and their management, and includes a separate at least once a year in order to get feedback on - review and monitor the effectiveness of the meeting with the External Auditor.
Tailored the relationship and assess the effectiveness external audit process and the ongoing induction programmes for Crawford Gillies of the external audit process.
relationship with the External Auditor: and Helen Mahy were delivered during the year.
- review and make recommendations to Meetings of the Audit Committee take place in the Board on: the tendering of the external Meetings and activities in 2015 16 advance of Board meetings.
The Audit Committee audit contract: and the appointment, The Audit Committee met four times during Chairman provides an update to the Board after remuneration and terms of engagement the year, with each meeting scheduled at key each meeting and minutes are provided to the of the External Auditor: times in the Groups financial reporting and Board and External Auditor.
- review and monitor the effectiveness audit calendar.
The Audit Committee has met of the risk management and internal once since the end of the financial year.
This was control framework: the first scheduled Audit Committee meeting - review the framework and analysis to support following Helen Mahys appointment to the Board the long-term viability statement: and on 1 March 2016, and all members attended.
- establish and oversee appropriate whistleblowing and fraud prevention arrangements.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assurance Framework The Audit Committee reviewed and the - comprehensive guidance issued to - comprehensive reviews undertaken Board approved the assurance framework contributors, including the FRC Letter, by the Companys brokers to ensure used to assist the Directors discharge Summary of key developments for 2015 consistency and balance: their requirement to state that the Annual annual reports, which was issued to Audit - reporting by the External Auditor of Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and Committee Chairmen in December 2015: any material inconsistencies: and understandable.
The main components - a verification process dealing with the - comprehensive review by the Directors of the assurance framework which were factual content: and the senior management team.
used to assist with the preparation of - comprehensive reviews undertaken 2016 Annual Report and Accounts are independently by the Companys The Audit Committee and Board received highlighted below: Director of Compliance and Director confirmation from management that the of Regulation to consider messaging assurance framework described above had and balance: been adhered to at its meeting in May 2016.
85 Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued Areas of focus in 2015 16 - the Groups tax position, including ongoing In carrying out the review of these matters, The key matters considered by the Audit HMRC enquires, areas of potential tax the Audit Committee received reports from Committee during the year are explained in exposure and the Fair Tax Mark accreditation: members of the Group Finance Team and detail below, and principally fell under the - regular reports on the status of various the External Auditor setting out their views following five main areas: Financial Reporting accounting projects including the transition on the accounting treatments and judgements and Significant Financial Judgements: Internal to FRS 101 102 for subsidiary companies: included in the Financial Statements.
Audit: External Audit: Internal Control and Risk - areas in which significant judgements had Management: and Governance.
been applied and other matters raised for Significant Financial Judgements discussion by the External Auditor: In preparing the financial statements, there Financial reporting and significant - reports from the External Auditor on its are a number of areas requiring the exercise by financial judgements audit of the full year results and its review management of judgement or a high degree of Financial reporting of the half year results: estimation.
In the Audit Committee Report in The Audit Committee assists the Board with - matters which informed the Boards 2015, accounting for legal and contractual the effective discharge of its responsibilities for assessment that it was appropriate to prepare claims was included as a significant financial financial reporting.
During the year, the Audit the accounts on a going concern basis: judgement area.
After discussion with Committee reviewed: - letters of representation issued by management and the External Auditor, the - the integrity of the interim and annual management to the External Auditor for the significant areas of judgement reviewed and financial statements and accompanying full year and half year results prior to them considered by the Audit Committee in relation reports to shareholders: being signed on behalf of the Board: and to the 2016 Financial Statements, and how these - the appropriateness of the accounting - whether the Annual Report and Accounts were addressed are set out in the table below: policies and practices used: were fair, balanced and understandable - the clarity of the disclosures, in addition to and provided the information necessary compliance with financial reporting standards for shareholders to assess the companys and governance reporting requirements: performance, business model and strategy.
Significant financial judgements Significant financial judgements for the year ended 31 March 2016 How the Audit Committee addressed these significant financial judgements Carrying value of certain non-current assets: The carrying The basis and outcome of this review is described in a paper value of certain non-current assets in the Group including power presented to the Audit Committee by management.
The paper generation plants and goodwill needs to be assessed by reference includes a description of the assumptions applied in deriving the to the recoverable value value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell recoverable values.
The Audit Committee reviewed and challenged of the asset or the associated CGU cash generating unit.
An annual the assumptions and projections presented in the management valuation impairment exercise is carried out.
The assumptions paper and also considered the detailed reporting from, and findings applied in this exercise require judgements on the economic factors by, the External Auditor.
Following this review, the Audit Committee associated with the assets under review see notes 4 and 16 to the supported the recommendation to recognise exceptional charges Financial Statements.
of 889.8m in relation to certain assets in the financial year.
Accounting for estimated revenue: Revenue from energy sales The Audit Committee reviewed a paper prepared by management in the Retail division includes an estimate of the value of electricity which detailed the practical process issues and assumptions applied in or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter determining the basis of recognition of unbilled debtors, with particular reading and the financial year end.
This is based on estimates and reference to domestic electricity and gas.
The Audit Committee also assumptions in relation to the consumption and valuation of that considered detailed reporting from, and held discussions with, the consumption see notes 4 and 21 to the Financial Statements.
External Auditor on this key judgement.
Following this review, the Audit Committee supported this judgement.
Valuation of receivables: The recoverability of the Groups billed The Audit Committee considered a paper which described the energy receivables in the Retail division is a key judgement area assumptions impacting management judgements on doubtful given the risk of customer insolvency or default.
The level of the debt allowances and charges, and were updated on the activities Groups aged debt is monitored with the Groups allowances of the Groups Debts Steering Group whose members include the for doubtful debt being based on assumptions derived from Finance Director and other senior management and the processes experience and industry knowledge see notes 4 and 34 to for receivables collection and provisioning.
The Audit Committee the Financial Statements.
also considered the results of the work of the External Auditor in this area.
Accounting for Group pension obligations: The assumptions in The costs, assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit relation to the cost to the Group of providing future post-retirement retirement schemes are regularly reviewed.
Advice is taken from benefits are set after consultation with qualified actuaries and can independent actuaries on the IAS 19R valuation of the schemes.
have a significantly material impact on the financial position of the The Audit Committee were updated on the schemes valuation Group see notes 4 and 32 to the Financial Statements.
from management and also considered the reporting of the External Auditor particularly in relation to the schemes key assumptions relative to market practice.
Internal audit partner is in the second year of his term.
The relation to the audit engagement.
In addition, The Director of Risk, Audit and Insurance has current lead audit partner is based in London the Audit Committee oversees a policy to management responsibility for the Internal Audit and is supported by an audit team based in govern the non-audit services provided by function.
In addition to the normal corporate Glasgow, Reading and Dublin.
Details of the policy and reporting structure, he is given the right of direct fees paid to the External Auditor in 2015 16 access to the Audit Committee, Chief Executive, Appointment of External Auditor are provided below.
The Audit Committee also and Company Chairman.
The Internal Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for considered reports from management which function operates a risk-based methodology reviewing and making recommendations to the did not raise any concerns in respect of the to review internal control and risk management Board on the appointment, remuneration and External Auditors objectivity and independence.
During the year, terms of engagement of the External Auditor.
After taking into account all the above matters, the Audit Committee: In making such recommendations to the Board, the Audit Committee concluded that it is fully - reviewed progress against the 2015 16 the Audit Committee considered the objectivity, satisfied with the objectivity and independence Internal Audit Plan, including significant independence, effectiveness, and ongoing of the External Auditor.
findings, the adequacy of managements relationship with the current External Auditor response and the time taken to resolve: as described below, in addition to the External Effectiveness of External Auditor - received reports from Internal Audit on the Auditors approach, scope, areas of focus, level and ongoing relationship assessment of the risk management framework of materiality and remuneration for the audit of The Audit Committee is responsible for and the internal control environment: the financial year ended 31 March 2016. reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness - considered the independence, authority and of both the external audit process and the responsibilities of the Internal Audit function Objectivity and independence ongoing relationship with the External Auditor.
and approved an updated version of the of External Auditor During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed: Internal Audit Charter: The Audit Committee is responsible for - regular reports on progress against the - assessed the expertise and resources reviewing and monitoring the objectivity and 2015 16 External Audit Plan, significant available to the Internal Audit function: and independence of the External Auditor.
The findings, the adequacy of managements - approved the Internal Audit Plan for 2016 17 External Auditor has provided specific assurance response and the time taken to resolve: which comprises fixed and flexible elements to the Audit Committee on the arrangements - the competence with which the External in order to provide capacity to respond to it has in place to maintain its objectivity and Auditor handled and communicated the changing business requirements and new independence, including confirmation of key accounting and audit judgements: and emerging risks.
compliance with APB Ethical Standards in The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
During the year, the Audit Committee considered: 0.6m for Permitted Non-Audit Services.
Overview of Non-Audit - the views of the Director of Risk, Audit and Significant categories of engagement for Services Policy Insurance on the effectiveness, resourcing Permitted Non-Audit Services awarded A comprehensive review of the Non-Audit and areas for future development of the during the year include 0.3m for advice Services Policy was carried out in 2015 16 Internal Audit function: and data analysis services provided in in anticipation of future changes which - the output of a Quality and Standards relation to the Connections business are being introduced as part of EU Audit Assessment of the Internal Audit function within Networks and 0.2m for tax Reform, where the cumulative limit of undertaken by KPMG: and advisory services.
In line with the Nonnon-audit services cannot exceed 70% - the results of a senior management survey Audit Services Policy, in each case the of the statutory audit fees.
The policy obtaining feedback on the value, business Audit Committee was satisfied that the recognises that the external audit contract acumen, trust and service provided by work was best handled by the External will be subject to mandatory rotation from Internal Audit.
Auditor because of their knowledge of the time-to-time, and includes a safeguard to Group and the skills and expertise brought ensure that potential audit firms are not After taking into account all of the above to the assignment.
Details of the fees paid restricted in their ability to tender for the matters, the Audit Committee concluded to the External Auditor during the year are external audit contract going forward.
that it is fully satisfied with the effectiveness made in note 6 to the Financial Statements.
For the purposes of approval, non-audit of the Internal Audit function, and supports services were divided into 3 categories: ongoing developments to further enhance - Audit-Related Services, where the its effectiveness.
approval of the Finance Director is needed: External audit Fees paid to External Auditor - Permitted Non-Audit Services, where KPMG were appointed as the External Auditor approval can be obtained from the in 1999 through a competitive tender process Audit and for AuditFinance Director up to 150,000 and following the merger which formed SSE.
At the Related Services the Audit Committee Chairman above 2015 AGM, shareholders re-appointed KPMG as Permitted this amount: and 0.6m the External Auditor of the Company for the year Non-Audit - Prohibited Non-Audit Services.
ended 31 March 2016, and authorised the Audit Services Committee to fix their remuneration.
KPMG The Audit Committee reviews a report has acted as the External Auditor of the Group at each meeting on the services being throughout the year.
The External Auditor is 1.1m provided by the External Auditor.
Fees for required to rotate the lead audit partner every Audit and Audit-Related Services incurred five years.
The Audit Committee monitors this during the year amounted to 1.1m and rotation, and confirms that the current lead audit 87 Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued External audit continued - the quality, stability and continuity provided Audit Services for Large Companies Market - the effectiveness of the overall external by the relationship with the current External Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive audit process for 2015 16, including meeting Auditor: Tender Processes and Audit Committee with the External Auditor and management - the changes to auditor tendering requirements Responsibilities Order 2014.
There are no separately to identify any areas of concern: and the mandatory auditor rotation obligation, contractual obligations with a third party - the quality of the External Auditors and the impact both have on the timing of which restrict the choice of External Auditor, engagement with the Audit Committee: a tender: and the future tender process will be based - the qualifications, expertise and resources - management of the audit requirement on a clear selection and assessment criteria.
of the External Auditor: regarding the change in accounting The Audit Committee will continue to keep - the output from a questionnaire completed standards at subsidiary level: and under review the timing of the tender for the by senior management seeking views on - the lead time required to ensure potential external audit contract.
In light of the decision KPMGs capability and performance in audit firms are not restricted in their ability to to defer tendering, resolutions to re-appoint providing external audit services: and tender for the external audit contract arising KPMG as External Auditor of the Company - the output from a FRC Audit Quality Review from existing contracts for non-audit work.
for the year ending 31 March 2017, and to of KPMG published in May 2015. authorise the Audit Committee to fix their After taking into account the matters outlined remuneration, will be proposed to shareholders After taking into account all the above matters, above, in addition to the arrangements for at the AGM on 21 July 2016. the Audit Committee concluded that it is fully monitoring all aspects of the relationship with satisfied with the effectiveness of both the the External Auditor, upon the recommendation Internal control and external audit process and the ongoing of the Audit Committee, the Board concluded risk management relationship with the External Auditor.
that it was in the best interests of the Company Whilst the Board is responsible for the not to tender the audit contract at this time.
overall system of internal control and risk Tendering of External Audit The matters highlighted in this section constitute management, reviewing and monitoring the Whilst the Audit Committee has continued to the Companys rationale and explanation for ongoing effectiveness of the system is covered keep under review all aspects of the relationship non-compliance with section C. 3.7 of the Code.
by a number of key committees and related with the External Auditor, no formal tender of assurance activities across the Group.
Full the external audit contract has been carried out Tender timeline details of the Groups internal control and since KPMGs appointment in 1999.
The Audit The five year rotation of the current lead Audit risk management framework including an Committee is fully aware of the audit tendering Partner will end on completion of the audit overview of developments during the year recommendations set out in the Code and the for the financial year ending 31 March 2019. for the identification and management of requirements of the CMA Audit Order, EU Audit As stated in the Audit Committee Report last risk, and an explanation of the requirements Regulation and EU Audit Directive.
Before year, it is anticipated that a tender process under the relevant FRC guidance, are set out making a recommendation to the Board on the will take place in 2018, in accordance with on pages 16 to 19 and 78. timing of the external audit contract tender, the timeline below which complies with the the Audit Committee considered: transitional provisions set out in The Statutory External Audit Tender Timeline 3 Lead Audit 5 Year Term Of Current Audit Partner New External Auditor Partner tenures 1999 2014 2015 2016 2018 2019 2019 2020 1 April AGM 23 July AGM 21 July 31 March AGM 31 March KPMG KPMG Approval Competitive Completion Approval Completion of appointed re-appointed sought for the external audit of final audit sought for the first audit by as External as External re-appointment tender process by KPMG appointment of new External Auditor Auditor of KPMG begins new External Auditor Auditor 88 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
The Audit Committee plays an important role Governance in the internal control and risk management In addition to the matters described in this report framework, and during the year it reviewed and to ensure good governance practice, the information drawn from a number of different Audit Committee considered the following sources, including reports from: matters during the year.
- Treasury, setting out: strategy: market developments: debt structure: maturity Terms of Reference profiles: funding plan: liquidity: going The Audit Committees structure and operations, concern: credit rating: foreign exchange: including its delegated responsibilities and and significant risks and controls: authority, are governed by Terms of Reference - Internal Audit on cyber security risks and which are reviewed annually.
vulnerabilities, including the development of the IT security programme: Annual plan of business - Energy Portfolio Management setting out: To support the Terms of Reference and ensure strategy: market prices and analysis: financial the effective operation of the Audit Committee, regulation developments: energy portfolio a detailed plan of business for each meeting and counterparty credit exposures: and throughout the year is approved annually.
significant risks and controls: - Group Risk on the framework for the Briefings identification, evaluation and monitoring of The Audit Committee receives regular briefings Principal Risks, including their assessment of from management on matters such as governance the risk management framework and internal and regulatory developments, treasury, energy control environment: trading and accounting policies and practices.
- Group Risk on the framework and analysis to support the long-term viability statement Review of disclosures made on page 17: The Audit Committee considered and approved - Group Risk on the framework to provide content to be included in the Annual Report assurance to the Executive Committee and concerning risk management, internal control Board that key policies which form part of and the Audit Committee Report.
SSEs System of Internal Control are being properly implemented within each of the Disclosure of information to Auditors Groups Divisions: The Audit Committee oversees the governance - Group Compliance with an update on the arrangements to assist the Directors discharge project to enhance the control environment in their responsibilities in relation to the disclosure relation to the various legislative and regulatory of information to the External Auditor and make obligations that govern SSEs operations: the statement as set out on page 114.
- Internal Audit on the review of whistleblowing arrangements, and the Evaluation implementation of an updated policy and During the course of the year, regular challenge external reporting channel to support the and engagement with management, Internal launch of the revised arrangements: Audit and the External Auditor, together with - Internal Audit highlighting investigations into the timely circulation of reports and information, allegations and incidents of fraud across has enabled the Audit Committee to discharge the Group, and the Companys response: its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The - Internal Audit on the work undertaken to external Board evaluation process which was identify the top Group-level fraud risks, and carried out during the year confirmed that the development of a focused audit plan: and the Audit Committee continued to operate - the External Auditor, on its assessment effectively.
Details of the evaluation process of significant risks and the internal control are set out on pages 76 and 77. environment in so far as is necessary to form an opinion on the true and fair view of the Financial Statements.
These reports provided the Audit Committee with invaluable insights into the risks facing the Group and the management of them, and inform the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework.
