CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The Board is accountable to shareholders and is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
This corporate governance report, together with the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 36 to 50, describes how the Board has applied the main principles of good governance set out in the Code during the year under review.
Compliance statement It is the Boards view that for the year ended 30 September 2016 the Company has complied with all of the principles set out in the Codeapplicable to this reporting period.
How we govern the Company Our governance structure comprises the Board and various committees detailed below, supported by the Groups standards, policies and controls, which are described in more detail in this report.
The Board Composition As at 30 September 2016, and as at the date of this report, the Board of Directors was made up of seven members, comprising the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
John Barton, Ian Dyson, Denis Hennequin and Per Utnegaard are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings their own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields.
Biographical details of each of the Directors currently in office are shown on pages 26 and 27.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the remuneration of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors remuneration report which is on pages 36 to 50.
The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by business need.
The Board met eight times between 1 October 2015 and 30 September 2016 and attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 29.
Each Director is also proposing to attend the AGM to answer shareholder questions.
Responsibilities The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property and assets present and future and issue debentures and other securities and give security, whether outright or as a collateral security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, although its primary role is to direct the strategic development of the Group.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board may delegate any of its powers to any committee consisting of one or more Directors.
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every Director also has access to the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that good corporate governance and compliance are implemented throughout the Group.
Together with the Chief Executive Officer and the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other information are distributed at times to allow Directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and clearly defined in accordance with the division of responsibilities set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Director effectiveness and training In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that each Director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
Meetings between the Non-Executive Directors, both with and without the presence of the Chief Executive Officer, are scheduled in the Boards annual programme.
Board meetings are also held at Group business locations to help all Board members to gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board, aswell as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than for a committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that at every Annual General Meeting, each Director shall retire and seek re-election.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, as is the case with all Directors.
The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not less than two save where shareholders decide otherwise.
Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for an initial term of three years which is reviewed and may be extended for a further three years.
A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all Non-Executive Directors following their appointment, including visits to key locations within the Group and meetings with members of the Executive Board and other key senior executives.
The induction also covers a review of the Groups governance policies, structures and business, including details of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
28 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE John Barton is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
His role includes providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as an intermediary for the Non-Executive Directors, where necessary.
The Board believes that John Barton continues to have the appropriate experience, knowledge and independence to continue in this role.
The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
A performance evaluation of each of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was separately carried out by the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman being present for the Chairmans evaluation and without the Chief Executive Officer being present for the Chief Executive Officers evaluation as part of the September Board meeting.
As a result of the evaluation, overall, the Non-Executive Directors consider each of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to be effective and more particularly that the Chairman continues to provide effective leadership of the Board and to exert the required levels of governance and control and that the Chief Executive Officer continues to provide effective management of the business.
To this extent, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer both continue to have the full support of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors will continue to review the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in the year ahead.
Board effectiveness A performance evaluation of the Board and of its committees is carried out annually to ensure that they continue to be effective and that each of the Directors demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
Overall, the Board considers each Director to be effective and that both the Board and its committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
Conflicts of interest As part of their ongoing development, the Chief Executive Officer may seek two, and the Chief Financial Officer may seek one, external non-executive role on a non-competitor board, for which they may retain the remuneration in respect of the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to the Boards approval and the Board monitors the extent of Directors other interests to ensure that its effectiveness is not compromised.
Each Director has a duty under the Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the obligation that he or she owes to the Company to disclose to the Board his or her interest in any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association authorise the Directors to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
The Board follows an established procedure when deciding whether to authorise an actual or potential conflict of interest.
Only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the Directors must act in good faith and in a way they consider will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
Furthermore, the Directors may, if appropriate, impose limits or conditions when granting authorisation.
Any authorities are reviewed at least every 12 months.
The Board considered and authorised each Directors reported actual and potential conflicts of interest at its September 2016 Board meeting.
Committees of the Board The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the discharge of its duties and the formal Terms of Reference for the principal committees, approved by the Board and complying with the Code, are available from the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and updated where necessary.
Membership and details of the principal committees are shown on pages 30 to 31.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all Board committees.
Meeting attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees in the year ended 30 September 2016: Name Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee John Barton 8 of 8 3 of 3 2 of 2 3 of 3 Jonathan Davies 8 of 8 Ian Dyson 8 of 8 3 of 3 2 of 2 3 of 3 Denis Hennequin 8 of 8 3 of 3 2 of 2 3 of 3 Vagn Srensen 8 of 8 2 of 2 Kate Swann 8 of 8 Per Utnegaard 8 of 8 3 of 3 3 of 3 The table shows the number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings that each Director was eligible to attend.
Directors who are not members of individual Board committees have also been invited to attend one or more meetings of those committees during theyear.
29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Nomination Committee Key responsibilities The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with regard to any changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination of new Directors, the reappointment of existing Directors and appointment of members to the Boards committees.
It also assesses the roles of the existing Directors in office to ensure that there continues to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Director appointments, although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
The Nomination Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
Membership as at 30 September 2016 John Barton Chairman Ian Dyson Denis Hennequin Vagn Srensen Meetings held in 2016 financial year: two Board appointment process The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors and senior executives with due regard to diversity and gender.
Prior to making an appointment, the Nomination Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, will prepare a description of the role and capabilities required, with a view to appointing the best placed individual for the role.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Nomination Committee: uses open advertising or the services of external advisors to facilitate the search: considers candidates from different genders and a wide range of backgrounds: and considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, in light of other significant commitments.
In the year ahead, the Nomination Committee will continue to assess the Boards composition and how it may be enhanced and will consider diversity gender and experience and geographic representation and use independent consultants as appropriate to ensure a broad search for suitable candidates.
Remuneration Committee Key responsibilities The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management.
Membership as at 30 September 2016 John Barton Chairman Ian Dyson Denis Hennequin Per Utnegaard Meetings held in 2016 financial year: three The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 36 to 50 and includes details of the Remuneration Committees activities during the year and the Company remuneration policy.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will attend the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Remuneration Committees activities.
Audit Committee Key responsibilities The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, including reviewing the Groups annual and half-year financial statements and accounting policies, internal and external audits and controls, reviewing and monitoring the scope of the annual audit and the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit, internal controls, whistleblowing and fraud systems in place within the Group.
30 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Membership as at 30 September 2016 Ian Dyson Chairman John Barton Denis Hennequin Per Utnegaard Meetings held in 2016 financial year: three The Audit Committees report is set out on pages 32 to 35 and includes details of the Audit Committees responsibilities and activities during the year.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will attend the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Audit Committees activities.
Other Committees Executive Committee The Executive Committee is not a Board committee but is the key management committee for the Group and is made up of the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Executive Committee meets regularly and is responsible for developing the Groups strategy and capital expenditure and investment budgets and reporting on those areas to the Board for approval, implementing Group policy, monitoring financial, operational and quality of customer service performance, health and safety, purchasing and supply chain issues, succession planning and day-to-day management of the Group.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee is responsible for risk management.
It is not a Board committee and is made up of the Chief Financial Officer, Senior Management and representatives from Deloitte, the Groups internal auditor.
It meets quarterly and reports to the Audit Committee.
Further details of the Risk Committee are set out in the Strategic report on pages 16and 17.
Communicating with shareholders The Company places considerable importance on communication with its shareholders, including its private shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are closely involved in investor relations supported by the Groups investor relations function, which has primary responsibility for day-to-day communication with investors.
The views of the Companys major shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as well as by the Chairman, and are discussed at its meetings.
The Board recognises the importance of promoting mutual understanding between the Company and its shareholders through a programme of engagement.
This includes the maintenance of a regular dialogue between the Board and senior management and major shareholders.
The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to meet the Board and to hear more about the strategy and performance of the Group.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to raise any questions at the meeting or in advance, using the email address shown in the AGM pack which is made available to shareholders.
The primary method of communication with shareholders is by electronic means, helping to make the Company more environmentally friendly by reducing waste and pollution associated with the printing and posting of its annual report.
The SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 is available to all shareholders and can be accessed via the Companys website at www.
TheGroups annual and interim results are also published on the Companys website, together with other announcements and documents issued to the market, such as trading updates and presentations.
Enquiries from shareholders may also be addressed to theGroups investor relations function through the contacts provided on the Groups website.
The Notice of AGM is circulated to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the AGM and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, at which they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board, and it is standard practice to have the Chairman of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
The results of proxy voting for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, are announced to the London Stock Exchange and are published on the Companys website shortly after the meeting.
