Directors Report Board of Directors Richard Gillingwater CBE Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Crawford Gillies Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Senior Independent Director Career Richards career to date Alistairs career to date Gregors career to date has Crawford has over three includes varied experience with comprises a variety of roles.
spanned all areas of finance.
decades of business and a wide range of organisations.
He has over 19 years service He has over 25 years service management experience For more than a decade he with the Group, having with the Group, joining in a variety of organisations.
worked in corporate finance joined Southern Electric plc Scottish Hydro-Electric plc in Initially this was with Bain & and investment banking, in due in 1997 and has the benefit 1990 and has the benefit of Company, a firm of international course becoming Chairman of of experiencing much change experiencing much change management consultants, European Investment Banking in the energy sector over in the energy sector over this where he was Managing at CSFB.
He served as Chief that period.
Prior to 1990, Gregor Director Europe from 2001 Executive of the Shareholder he worked for HSBC and worked for Arthur Andersen to 2005.
While at Bain he Executive for a time and latterly National Westminster Bank where he trained and qualified worked with major companies was Dean of Cass Business in corporate finance and as a Chartered Accountant.
in the UK, Continental Europe School, London.
business development roles He was SSEs Group Treasurer and North America across in London and New York.
He also has extensive board and Tax Manager before being multiple sectors.
experience and served as the His career has provided him appointed as Finance Director He has also held public Chairman of CDC Group and with extensive experience in 2002.
His role was expanded sector posts in both England a non-Executive Director of across the energy sector and in 2012 and he now has and Scotland.
He was an P&O, Debenhams, Tomkins, he has held leadership roles responsibility for Finance, independent member of Qinetiq Group and Kidde.
in the Wholesale, Retail and Risk, Audit and Insurance, the Department of Trade Enterprise areas as well as in Procurement and Logistics, IT, In 2015 he resigned as Senior & Industry and chaired its other commercial areas of SSE, Corporate Business Services Independent Director of Hiscox Audit & Risk Committee.
He Ltd and as a non-Executive Crawford brings a wealth addition he has led many of was instrumental in SSEs Director of Wm Morrison of experience including the Groups most significant investment in SGN and is Supermarkets plc in order to extensive board experience, transactions since the merger currently Chairman of the SGN ensure he has the appropriate making him an excellent in 1998 when SSE plc was Board.
In addition he is the capacity to be Chairman appointment as SSEs Senior formed.
Alistair also served sponsoring Board member for of SSE plc.
as Chairman of the Energy SSEs businesses in Ireland.
Skills and competencies Richard has significant board Alistair is a Chartered Accountant Gregor is a Chartered Crawfords long and varied experience which he applies in and this together with his Accountant and brings wide career in business means he his leading of the SSE Board.
He operational experience and ranging financial knowledge brings broad commercial and has an excellent understanding leadership skills means he brings to the Board.
His detailed governance knowledge to of the policy and regulatory significant knowledge and understanding of the different the Board including particular framework within which commerciality to the Board.
His aspects of the SSE group and expertise in matters of finance SSE operates as well as experience in the energy sector their operating environment and risk management.
broad financial skills and gives him a valuable insight into is invaluable.
the challenges the industry faces.
Date of appointment Non-Executive Director Appointed an Executive Appointed Finance Director Non-Executive Director since May 2007.
Director in January 2002. in October 2002. since 1 August 2015.
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2013.
Committee membership Chairman of the Member of the Nomination Member of the Member of the Audit, Nomination Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Key current appointments Chairman of Henderson Director of Energy UK.
Non-Executive Director Chairman of Control Group plc.
Non-Executive Member of the Accenture director of Barclays plc.
Senior Independent Global Energy Board.
Chairman of SGN Ltd. Director of Helical Bar plc.
Senior Independent director Vice President of Eurelectric.
Member of Advisory Board of School for CEOs.
Richard Gillingwater CBE Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Crawford Gillies Jeremy Beeton CB Katie Bickerstaffe Dame Susan Bruce DBE Peter Lynas Helen Mahy CBE Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director Career Richards career to date Alistairs career to date Gregors career to date has Crawford has over three Jeremys career comprises Katies career to date has Sue has had an extensive Peters career to date means Helens career to date includes varied experience with comprises a variety of roles.
decades of business and over 40 years of international included experience in a and varied career in local he has over 30 years of includes varied experience a wide range of organisations.
He has over 19 years service He has over 25 years service management experience project management variety of roles in customergovernment.
business experience spanning as Company Secretary and For more than a decade he with the Group, having with the Group, joining in a variety of organisations.
experience over large, facing retailers and fastall areas of finance as well as General Counsel as well as on During this time, she held worked in corporate finance joined Southern Electric plc Scottish Hydro-Electric plc in multi-site projects.
Initially this was with Bain & a variety of roles including and investment banking, in due in 1997 and has the benefit 1990 and has the benefit of worked with a wide range Company, a firm of international Katie is a graduate of Unilevers Chief Executive at both East He joined GEC-Marconi in She was Group General course becoming Chairman of of experiencing much change experiencing much change of organisations including management consultants, management training scheme Dunbartonshire Council 1985 as a Financial Accountant Counsel and Company European Investment Banking in the energy sector over in the energy sector over this governments, and both where he was Managing and her earlier career included and Aberdeen City Council at the manufacturing operation Secretary of Babcock at CSFB.
Prior to 1990, Gregor private and public companies.
Director Europe from 2001 roles at Dyson Ltd and before taking up the role in Portsmouth.
In 1998 he was International Group PLC.
Executive of the Shareholder he worked for HSBC and worked for Arthur Andersen to 2005.
While at Bain he During his career, he held PepsiCo Inc. of Chief Executive at the appointed Finance Director From 2003 to late 2012 Executive for a time and latterly National Westminster Bank where he trained and qualified worked with major companies various positions at Bechtel City of Edinburgh Council.
of Marconi Electronic Systems She later became Managing she was Group Company was Dean of Cass Business in corporate finance and as a Chartered Accountant.
in the UK, Continental Europe Ltd. Haden Maclellan prior to the completion of Director of Kwik Save Ltd This provided her with Secretary and General School, London.
business development roles He was SSEs Group Treasurer and North America across Holdings PLC and Cleveland the British Aerospace and Group Retail Director substantial experience in Counsel of National Grid plc in London and New York.
Bridge Engineering UK Middle Marconi merger.
and Group HR Director at leading sizeable organisations where she gained valuable experience and served as the His career has provided him appointed as Finance Director East Ltd.
In due course he He has also held public Somerfield plc.
with large numbers of He was a Board Director energy sector experience as Chairman of CDC Group and with extensive experience in 2002.
His role was expanded became Principal Vice sector posts in both England employees, significant assets of Marconis European joint well as experience in the areas From 2008 to 2012, a non-Executive Director of across the energy sector and in 2012 and he now has President of Bechtel Ltd, and Scotland.
He was an and an important place in venture companies, Alenia of risk and compliance.
Katie further expanded P&O, Debenhams, Tomkins, he has held leadership roles responsibility for Finance, where he had responsibility independent member of the communities they serve.
Marconi Systems and Matra and consolidated her She was previously a Qinetiq Group and Kidde.
in the Wholesale, Retail and Risk, Audit and Insurance, for the management and the Department of Trade Through this part of her career, Marconi Space, and has been varied business experience non-Executive Director of Enterprise areas as well as in Procurement and Logistics, IT, delivery of Bechtels civil In 2015 he resigned as Senior & Industry and chaired its she also gained experience Chairman of the trustee Board while serving as Director Aga Rangemaster Group plc other commercial areas of SSE, Corporate Business Services engineering projects in Independent Director of Hiscox Audit & Risk Committee.
in financial management, of a major pension scheme.
of Marketing, People and and of Stagecoach Group plc such as Corporate Finance.
Ltd and as a non-Executive cost control, organisation Crawford brings a wealth Property Dixons.
In 2012 He has been Group Finance and a former chair of the addition he has led many of was instrumental in SSEs Director of Wm Morrison He was the Director General recovery and in a range of experience including she was promoted to the Director of BAE Systems Plc GC100 Group.
the Groups most significant investment in SGN and is Supermarkets plc in order to of the UK Government of large-scale projects.
extensive board experience, role of Chief Executive, since 2011.
These roles have also transactions since the merger currently Chairman of the SGN ensure he has the appropriate Olympic Executive, the making him an excellent UK and Ireland Dixons After 40 years service provided Helen with extensive in 1998 when SSE plc was Board.
In addition he is the capacity to be Chairman lead government body for appointment as SSEs Senior Carphone plc and also she retired from local commercial experience.
coordinating the 2012 London Independent Director.
government in 2015. as Chairman of the Energy SSEs businesses in Ireland.
Olympics and Paralympic Retail Association.
Skills and competencies Richard has significant board Alistair is a Chartered Accountant Gregor is a Chartered Crawfords long and varied Jeremy is a Civil Engineer and Katie brings an understanding Sues extensive career in the Peter is a Fellow of the Helens career, including experience which he applies in and this together with his Accountant and brings wide career in business means he brings extensive knowledge of of customers needs gained public sector enhances the Chartered Association of relevant sector experience, his leading of the SSE Board.
He operational experience and ranging financial knowledge brings broad commercial and project management and related through her career in retail.
Her Certified Accountants and puts her in the ideal position has an excellent understanding leadership skills means he brings to the Board.
His detailed governance knowledge to topics including amongst She combines this with her operational experience of leading brings up to date financial to understand the legal, of the policy and regulatory significant knowledge and understanding of the different the Board including particular others safety, effective teams, experience in HR, marketing large organisations and projects knowledge and experience as compliance and governance framework within which commerciality to the Board.
His aspects of the SSE group and expertise in matters of finance complex project structures and and other business areas to make Sue a source of knowledge well as the general business issues SSE faces.
She also brings SSE operates as well as experience in the energy sector their operating environment and risk management.
bring a wide-range of skills on these matters for the Board.
knowledge gained from being a detailed knowledge of, and broad financial skills and gives him a valuable insight into is invaluable.
an Executive Director on interest in, the areas of inclusion City experience.
Date of appointment Non-Executive Director Appointed an Executive Appointed Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director since May 2007.
Director in January 2002. in October 2002. since 1 August 2015. since July 2011. since July 2011. since September 2013. since July 2014. since 1 March 2016.
Committee membership Chairman of the Member of the Nomination Member of the Member of the Audit, Chairman of the Safety, Chairman of the Member of the Audit, Chairman of the Member of the Audit, Nomination Committee.
Nomination and Health and Environment Remuneration Committee Nomination and Safety, Audit Committee.
Nomination and Safety, Remuneration Committees.
Health and Environment Health and Environment Member of the Member of the Nomination Member of the Advisory Committees.
Non-Executive Director Chairman of Control Member of the Court Chief Executive, UK and Ireland Chair of the Royal Scottish Group Finance Director Chairman of The Renewables Group plc.
Member of the Accenture director of Barclays plc.
Member of the Advisory Chair of Young Scot.
Member of the BAE Systems Inc Non-Executive Director Director of Helical Bar plc.
Senior Independent director Board of PwC.
Deputy Chair of The of Standard Life plc.
Chairman of Merseylink Ltd. Scottish Council for Non-Executive Director Member of Advisory Board Development and Industry.
Non-Executive Director of School for CEOs.
Visiting Professor, The International Institute of Public Non-Executive Director Policy, University of Strathclyde.
