Directors Report Corporate governance Leadership governance framework are sound systems Board Committees Role of the Board of internal control and risk management.
As outlined in SSEs corporate governance SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy These are subject to regular review, and it is framework, there are four standing committees people need in a reliable and sustainable the responsibility of the Board to confirm that of the Board to which certain matters are way.
As explained in the Strategic Report, SSE they remain robust and relevant to the risk delegated.
Delegation to specific committees achieves this through the efficient operation landscape within which SSE operates.
ensures that all areas receive adequate focus of, and investment in, a balanced range of and may include matters for approval or review.
energy-related businesses within three principal Decision-making and oversight The terms of reference of each Committee are areas: Wholesale: Networks: and Retail which The individual and collective powers and set by the Board, reviewed regularly and are incorporates Enterprise.
Through these operations duties of the Directors are determined by a available in full on the SSE website.
An overview and investments, the Board is collectively combination of legislation and the Companys of the responsibilities of each Committee is responsible to SSEs shareholders for the longArticles of Association.
In addition, a formal detailed opposite and further information can term success of the Group.
The Board decide schedule of matters is specifically reserved for be found in the relevant Committee reports that the overall strategic direction, values and consideration by the Board.
Committee membership is determined governance of the Group, and provide the reviewed annually by the Board as part of SSEs by the Board, on the recommendation of the entrepreneurial leadership within a framework Board Charter, and is published on the SSE Nomination Committee and in consultation which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
website along with the Articles of Association.
with the relevant Committee Chairman.
Prior Effective leadership is further defined within SSE to a recommendation being made, consideration through the Leadership Blueprint, which is Oversight of matters which are delegated is given to the requisite role of the Committee detailed below.
by the Board is retained through a robust and the subject matter of their work, such that reporting framework central to which are membership complements any technical Governance framework effective relations with the Board Committees, expertise required.
At meetings of the full Board, The Board sets SSEs corporate governance Chief Executive, Finance Director and the the Committee Chairman is responsible for framework which is detailed opposite, and SSE Executive Committee.
Reports from communicating key matters requiring the through continual review ensures that it remains the Executive Directors and the Executive consideration of the Board.
supportive of the individual needs of each Committee are provided to the Board at each business area and the Group at large.
The Board meeting, and minutes from all Board governance framework recognises the highly Committee and Executive Committee meetings regulated environment within which SSE are included within Board meeting packs.
operates, and facilitates effective decisionmaking by taking into account the different regimes that regulate the energy sector in the UK and Ireland.
Embedded within the SSEs Leadership Blueprint The Leadership Blueprint defines SSEs expectations of its leaders and the behaviours that are deemed necessary to enable the Group Builds a to succeed over the long term.
The behaviours proud team it sets out are consistent with SSEs core values and are supportive of the corporate culture of the Group.
In line with SSEs Guide to ethical business conduct for all SSE employees, the Leadership Blueprint is centred on Does the right things.
The Leadership Blueprint permeates from Reads the Gets it done Does the Board level and has been rolled out through energy brilliantly dedicated training and information sessions to right things contest over 1,000 leaders and managers across the Group.
It provides a clear and consistent framework for leadership in SSE and forms an important aspect of the culture for leaders and managers to embrace and promote within their teams.
Discovers future value 70 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
SSEs corporate governance framework Board of Directors Responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of SSE and for its overall strategic direction, values and governance.
Matters reserved exclusively for Board consideration include: - Group strategy.
- Changes in capital structure of the Group.
- Approval of interim and full year financial statements.
- Succession planning and people strategy.
- Interim dividend payments and recommendation - Major acquisitions, mergers, disposals and of final dividend.
- Significant changes in accounting policy and practice.
- The Groups corporate governance, risk management - Regulatory matters including price control reviews and system of internal control.
Nomination Audit Safety, Health Remuneration Committee Committee and Environment Committee Advisory Committee Reviews and monitors Reviews and monitors Assists the Board Advises the Board remuneration policy to the leadership needs of in discharging its on safety, health and support the long-term the Board and senior responsibilities in relation environment matters, success of SSE and management, and to financial reporting, including setting targets approves the detailed supports SSEs continued internal audit, external and overseeing strategy remuneration terms for ability to recruit the level audit, internal control implementation to the Executive Directors and quality of expertise and risk management.
it needs to ensure longSee pages 84 to 89.
See pages 92 to 113. term success.
Executive Committee Responsible for implementing the strategy, values and governance set by the Board, whilst leading the day to day running and operations of SSE.
Safety, Risk and Risk Large Capital Capital Governance Information Health and Trading Committee Projects Allocation and Disclosure Security Environment Committee Ireland Committee Group Committee and Privacy Committee Committee 71 Delegation Report back Directors Report Corporate governance continued Leadership continued large capital projects: consumer markets: The non-Executive Directors are appointed Composition of the Board and finance and audit.
SSE recognises that for a fixed term of three years subject to annual The Board comprises the Chairman, the Senior key to securing such a broad range of skills re-election by shareholders.
This term can be Independent Director, two Executive Directors and knowledge is diversity.
Non-Executive renewed by mutual agreement and the current and five non-Executive Directors.
Appointment Directors are therefore recruited on merit from appointment letters for each of the nonto these positions results from a combination a variety of backgrounds, in order to build the Executive Directors are available for inspection of comprehensive succession planning, and desired skill set, and introduce difference of on the SSE website.
formal and rigorous external searches.
To ensure approach and thought to the boardroom.
effective leadership the size, composition and More information on the Boards policy on The Board appoints one of the non-Executive performance of the Board and its Committees diversity and of the Board changes that occurred Directors to be the Senior Independent Director is regularly reviewed.
during 2015 16 can be found in the Nomination SID, who in addition to the responsibilities of Committee report on pages 82 and 83.
The non-Executive Director has specific roles as In order to fulfil its role the Board must Directors biographies are set out in full on outlined below.
collectively possess the correct mix of skills, pages 68 and 69. knowledge and expertise, which includes The Chairman meets the non-Executive amongst other matters an understanding of: the Roles and responsibilities Directors without the Executive Directors energy sector: the competitive landscape: the An overview of the roles and responsibilities of present throughout the year and in 2015 16 two incumbent risks within the industry and those the Board members and Company Secretary meetings were held.
These meetings provide the specific to SSEs businesses: the political and are outlined below.
The roles of Chairman and opportunity to discuss matters without executive regulatory framework in which SSE operates: Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined.
input and to raise any concerns as appropriate.
Roles and responsibilities Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Richard Gillingwater Crawford Gillies Jeremy Beeton, Katie Bickerstaffe, Sue Bruce, Peter Lynas and Helen Mahy The role of the Chairman involves: The role of the Senior Independent The role of the non-Executive Director involves: Directors involves: - leadership, operation and governance of the Board: - providing a sounding board for the Chairman: - scrutinising, measuring and reviewing the - setting the agenda for Board meetings - serving as an intermediary to other Directors performance of management: ensuring that they operate effectively, and when necessary: and - constructively challenging and assisting in the provide appropriate opportunity for challenge - being available to shareholders if they have development of strategy: and debate to support sound decision-making: any concerns which are unable to be resolved - reviewing the Group financial information, - ensuring constructive relations exist between through the normal channels of Chairman, ensuring systems of internal control and risk the Executive and non-Executive Directors: Chief Executive or Finance Director, or if management are appropriate and effective: - identifying individual Director training needs contact through these channels is deemed - reviewing the succession plans for the and overseeing the performance evaluation: inappropriate.
Board: and - meetings with shareholders, analysts and other - serving on various Committees of the Board.
representatives of institutional investors: and - meeting with managers and employees at various locations throughout the Group.
Chief Executive Finance Director Company Secretary Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Sally Fairbairn The Chief Executive is responsible for: The Finance Director is responsible for: The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for: - delivering strategy as agreed by the Board: - deputising for the Chief Executive: - leading the Executive Committee which - leading the finance management teams: - compliance with Board procedures: oversee the operational and financial - leading and supporting the functions of: - advising and keeping the Board up to date performance of, and issues facing the Group: Procurement and Logistics: Risk, Audit and on all corporate governance developments: - leading and supporting each of SSEs Insurance: Investor Relations and Company - facilitating the Directors induction businesses and the functions of HR, Strategy Secretarial: Corporate and Business Services: programmes and assisting with professional and Development and Corporate Affairs: and Assurance, Supply and Transformation: and development: - representing SSE externally to stakeholders, IT: and - considering Board effectiveness in conjunction shareholders, customers, suppliers, - representing SSE externally to stakeholders, with the Chairman: and regulatory and government authorities and shareholders, customers, suppliers, - providing advice, services and support to all the community.
regulatory and government authorities and Directors as and when required.
Board meetings to ensure that the Board continues to support The Board has six scheduled Board meetings effective decision-making.
SSE Board Charter each year and attendance for 2015 16 is set During the year, the Board reviewed out in the table below.
In the event of nonSignature practices at every Board meeting and realigned a number of existing attendance due to unforeseen circumstances include reports from: the CEO: the Finance governance policies and documents or prior commitments which could not be Director: and the Managing Directors from with the approval of the SSE Board rearranged, the Director will provide comments the main businesses and support functions Charter.
The Board Charter supports and feedback to the Chairman or Company in relation to safety, compliance, performance, good standards of corporate Secretary, who then ensures that they are developments and key strategic initiatives.
governance, through the collation raised at the meeting.
Some of the specific matters considered by and regular review of a number of the Board during the year in relation to SSEs key matters, including: In addition to full Board meetings, a Board call strategic priorities of efficient operations, - the division of responsibilities is held in the alternate months.
This is used to disciplined investment and balanced between the Chairman and update the Board on business performance, businesses are outlined on page 74.
Chief Executive: provide briefings on any current issues, and - the respective roles, may include matters for decision or approval.
The reporting year 2015 16 was another busy responsibilities and authorities Arrangements are also in place should a period for the Board, in what has continued to of the Board, its Committees Board decision be required to be taken be particularly challenging market conditions.
and management: out with these times.
Some difficult discussions took place during the - the Schedule of Reserved year, including those surrounding the Companys Matters: and A business dinner with senior management and thermal generation assets Ferrybridge and - Board level policies and practices.
external guests is held in the evening before Fiddlers Ferry Power Stations.
Further information each Board meeting.
Full Board meetings then of the governance surrounding the decisionThe SSE Board Charter is provided to commence the following day and are arranged making process can be found in the Fiddlers each of the Directors and is subject to take place at different SSE locations.
This Ferry case study on page 75. to a comprehensive annual review, facilitates engagement across all areas of the with updates made during the year business and enhances the Boards level of Future investment has also been an area as required.
understanding at an operational level.
Members of focus, with the acquisition of a share of the Executive Committee are also regularly in the West of Shetland upstream gas assets, invited to attend, with at least two members of and the continued progress with the Caithnessthe Executive Committee or senior management Moray transmission line.
The Board has present on a rotating basis.
The additional continued to oversee the Companys approach attendees routinely provide updates from in respect of Treating Customers Fairly, and within their business area, enabling in-depth throughout the year individual members of and constructive discussion at Board level and the Board participated in a number of related Strategy session supporting effective decision-making.
In July 2015 the Board approved SSEs The annual strategy session was Treating Customers Fairly Statement which is held in July 2015 and was attended Board activity published on the SSE website.
by all Board and Executive Committee The Board agenda setting process is built from members.
The session was facilitated an annual Board Planner, which was reviewed A significant amount of time has also been spent by the Director of Strategy and in 2015 16 by the Chairman and Company engaging with the business outside of the Board Development and served as a platform Secretary.
Significant focus was given to both meeting schedule, and further details of the for iterative strategy development, the matters to be considered, and the time specific activities which have taken place are with specific initiatives and plans throughout the year at which they are brought, detailed on page 74. for implementation being agreed.
The Board was provided with an assessment of the Groups current strategic position in advance of Board attendance the session, which was reviewed On the Attended Members Position Board since scheduled and debated in detail on the day.
Key conclusions and agreed actions Richard Gillingwater Chairman 2007 6 6 were then recorded and subsequently Gregor Alexander Executive Director 2002 6 6 finalised, following any investigation Jeremy Beeton Independent NED 2011 6 6 as appropriate.
As part of the session the Board also received an update Katie Bickerstaffe Independent NED 2011 6 6 on the CMA Energy Market Sue Bruce Independent NED 2013 6 6 investigation by the Managing 1 Director, Corporate and Business Crawford Gillies Senior Independent Director 2015 4 4 Services and Shareholder perspectives Peter Lynas Independent NED 2014 6 6 by SSEs Corporate Broker, Credit 2 Helen Mahy Independent NED 2016 1 1 Suisse International.
Alistair Phillips-Davies Executive Director 2002 6 6 3 Lord Smith of Kelvin Former Chairman 2005 2 2 1 Crawford Gillies joined the Board on 1 August 2015.
2 Helen Mahy joined the Board on 1 March 2016.
3 Lord Smith of Kelvin retired from the Board on 23 July 2015.
73 Directors Report Corporate governance continued Board activity in 2015 16 SSE is built on strong foundations and operates with a clear strategic framework comprising a balanced range of businesses in core markets, and a commitment to efficient operations and disciplined investments.
Some of the matters considered by the Board in relation to these strategic priorities are set out below.
Area of focus Matters considered by the Board included - Investment and capital expenditure to deliver business growth resulting in progression of Disciplined investment the Caithness-Moray electricity transmission link and expanding SSEs renewables portfolio.
- Investing in becoming a market-leading retailer of energy and essential services by digitalising, diversifying and excelling in customer service.
- The disposal strategy to deliver business simplification, create value and recycle capital, Efficient operations including the disposal of SSE Pipelines, PFI street lighting contracts and an equity share in Clyde wind farm.
- Managing energy sector issues including the CMA investigation, RIIO ED1 framework, commodity prices and planned revisions to the UK Capacity Market.
- Ensuring SSE has a broad platform from which to deliver long-term value, with the purchase Balanced businesses of a 20% share in the four gas fields in the Greater Laggan Area and a 20% share in the Shetland Gas Plant.
- Managing risk through owning a diverse range of assets and fuels from which to meet the needs of customers, including the option to invest in a second multi-fuel facility at Ferrybridge.
Board engagement in 2015 16 Members of the Board regularly visit locations across the Group to meet with management and gain a greater understanding of the operations of SSEs businesses.
Following any such site visits, the Director will provide feedback at the next Board meeting.
Wholesale Networks Retail Enterprise During the year, a number Significant milestones were During the year, members of A number of site visits of the Directors took the reached during the year on a the Board attended a number took place during the year, opportunity to visit some number of large capital projects of sessions on the digitalisation to update members of the of SSEs gas generation assets within the Networks business, and strategic priorities of the Board on Enterprise business at Medway in the UK and Great including the completion of the Retail business.
Briefings from initiatives, including the Energy Island in Ireland.
At each visit, Beauly-Denny Transmission senior management provided Company Obligation scheme the Directors were given a tour Line and commencement of the Board with a deeper level and Wyndford District heating of the site and met with local the Caithness to Moray subsea of insight on digital customer scheme.
An engagement management to gain a better transmission link.
The full Board engagement, smart meters session on Smart Cities was understanding of the operational are due to visit sections of both and other growth opportunities.
also arranged covering market, challenges facing the plant.
these assets in 2016 17. technologies and solutions.
Governance case study Market conditions for thermal generation continued to be challenging during 2015 16.
The continued expansion of sources of renewable electricity and reducing customer demand has impacted upon the profitability of all thermal assets.
This has affected SSEs own portfolio as well as the wider market.
This trend looks set to continue and it was against this backdrop that the decisions outlined in the governance case study below were made.
January 2016 1 2 3 February 2016 4 5 March 2016 6 7 8 Background Decision-making 5.
Announcement of intention to close The energy landscape: 1.
Executive Committee made to the market - The UK Government announces it will The Executive Committee considered SSEs An announcement was made on 3 February consult on proposals to end electricity position and options for the future operation 2016.
The full consultation process to enable generation from coal-fired power of its thermal generation assets, which a final decision to be made was initiated.
stations by 2025, with operations included Fiddlers Ferry Power Station.
Executive Committee - All units at Fiddlers Ferry fail to secure a the issues identified, including the proposal An update of developments potentially capacity obligation agreement for delivery to consult with employees be presented to impacting the intention to close Fiddlers in the 2019 20 Capacity Market auction, the Board.
Ferry decision was provided to the Executive in December 2015.
The Committee discussed the - There has been an observed change in 2.
Board option for Fiddlers Ferry to participate in the generation mix, seeing coal stations The Board reviewed SSEs position in respect an upcoming tender for the provision of being displaced by cheaper lower carbon of its thermal generation assets, including Ancillary Services to National Grid, with a alternatives.
SSE has stated its intention to the projected future losses at Fiddlers Ferry.
contract start date of 1 April 2016.
A number progressively reduce the carbon intensity The Board considered the potential impact of potential outcomes were identified and of its electricity generation.
of any proposal to end commercial following comprehensive analysis it was operations, recognising that work which agreed that the Executive Committee would Fiddlers Ferry: would continue to inform the decisionrecommend a bid, for consideration by - SSE employs 213 people at Fiddlers making process was currently ongoing.
It was acknowledged, should an intention - From 1 April 2016 the station is due to close Fiddlers Ferry be announced, 7.
Board to have Transmission Entry Capacity an extensive stakeholder engagement A comprehensive bid proposal was reviewed TEC of 1,455MW equivalent to three of and employee consultation process would by the Board.
At this time the extensive Fiddlers Ferrys Units, and a contract to commence.
It was agreed that a dedicated stakeholder consultation process remained provide Supplemental Balancing Reserve sub-Committee of the Board should be ongoing and the future operations of Fiddlers for winter 2016 17 is in place.
formed in order to support the Executive Ferry were still under review.
The Board - Costs are not being covered by the Committee and to facilitate the process subsequently agreed that a bid should be income the station receives from surrounding this important decision.
submitted to National Grids tender process.
generating electricity and providing services to National Grid.
Sub-Committee of the Board The Board also received an update following has been loss-making over the last A dedicated sub-Committee of the Board the Government announcement that a two financial years and cash outflow comprising both non-Executive and Executive further Capacity Market auction for 2017 18 is expected to exceed cash inflow in Directors met in January and February 2016 was under consultation.
all of the financial years through to to assess the output of ongoing internal and March 2020. external engagement surrounding the future 8.
Announcement of operations - The asset is aging and its high carbon of Fiddlers Ferry.
At the meeting in January, continuing in 2016 17 intensity poses disadvantages in relation the Directors agreed to defer any decision Following a competitive procurement to cost and environmental impact.
for a further period to allow engagement process, one of the three available units to continue.
At the meeting in February, the at Fiddlers Ferry, secured a contract to Directors reviewed the position and confirmed provide Ancillary Services to National that the major factors which had been Grid.
An announcement confirmed this considered by the Board in January remained development, and detailed that commercial unchanged, namely the energy landscape and operations would continue at the site for economic outlook for the plant.
Under the 2016 17, with all or part of Fiddlers Ferry terms of the authority delegated by the Board, being entered into any Capacity Market the sub-Committee approved the decision of auction in 2017 18. the intention to close three of the four units at Fiddlers Ferry from 1 April 2016.
75 Directors Report Corporate governance continued Executive Committee Martin Pibworth Colin Nicol Will Morris Jim McPhillimy Sally Fairbairn Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Company Secretary Wholesale Networks Retail Enterprise and Director of Investor Relations The Executive Committee is responsible whom are persons discharging managerial place at different SSE sites in order to for implementing policy and strategy as responsibilities.
The Company Secretary increase visibility and staff engagement.
agreed by the Board and for the operational is Secretary to the Executive Committee, The Executive Committee carried out an management of SSEs businesses.
The and the Managing Director, Corporate annual review of performance in September membership of the Executive Committee Affairs, is invited to attend meetings.
2015, with the operation of the Committee comprises: the two Executive Directors: and The Executive Committee meets monthly being confirmed as remaining effective.
the Managing Directors of Wholesale, and follows a detailed plan of business Networks, Retail and Enterprise all of throughout the year, with meetings taking Effectiveness Progress has been achieved against all objectives of interest at their meeting in January 2016.
Evaluation of the Board, set in 2014 15, and will again be measured against Each Director abstained from approval of their Committees and Directors those currently set during the scheduled internal own position.
The Board continues to monitor The Board, its Committees and the individual evaluation in 2016 17. and review actual and potential conflicts of Directors participate in an annual evaluation interest on an ongoing basis and Directors are of performance.
During the year each Director participated in a responsible for notifying the Company Secretary detailed review of individual performance which if they become aware of an actual or potential Having undergone an internal review of was carried out by the Chairman.
The process conflict situation or a change in circumstances effectiveness in 2013 14 and 2014 15, the Board for evaluating the Chairman was managed relating to an existing authorisation.
Biographical underwent a comprehensive external evaluation by the Senior Independent Director, which details for all the Directors, including details of during the year, which followed a facilitated involved a separate meeting with the nontheir external directorships are set out on pages self-assessment process as outlined opposite.
Executive Directors and included feedback 68 and 69.
The review was conducted by Sean OHare of from the Executive Directors and the Boardroom Dialogue Ltd.
Neither Sean OHare Company Secretary.
Director induction nor Boardroom Dialogue Ltd have any other On joining the Board, all non-Executive Directors connection with the Company.
Independence receive an induction tailored to their individual The Nomination Committee Report explains the requirements.
Crawford Gillies and Helen Mahy Overall the evaluation concluded that the Board process carried out during the year to verify the completed a comprehensive programme on were committed and working effectively together continuing independence of the non-Executive appointment, which was facilitated by both in their leadership role.
The Board considers that the Chairman the Chairman and Company Secretary and deemed to possess diversity of skill, background was independent on appointment and that all comprised the elements outlined in the table and gender, with open, engaged and respectful non-Executive Directors are independent in opposite.
During the induction programme relationships existing between the Board and line with the criteria as set out in the Code.
The each Director also identified areas in which senior management.
The strength of the continuing independent and objective judgement they requested additional meetings or further corporate culture which emanates from the of the non-Executive Directors was confirmed as information.
As a result Helen Mahy met with SSE SET of core values, was clearly visible, part of the annual Board evaluation process.
Group Risk and Human Resources, and a and the process confirmed that the Board Digital Deep Dive was arranged for both and its Committees were functioning well.
Directors conflicts of interest Helen Mahy and Crawford Gillies with the During the year a review of the Directors Retail Leadership Team.
The evaluation identified opportunities to interests and appointments was carried out further enhance Board engagement, strengthen by the Company Secretary and a report was exposure to complex and technical issues, provided to the Nomination Committee for improve meeting administration and increase review and recommendation to the Board.
Details The Board then considered and authorised each of the objectives set are detailed opposite.
Directors reported actual or potential conflicts 76 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 S 2 t p e e p t S 4 1.
Board and Committee evaluation Step 1 Step 2 A meeting was held with Boardroom Dialogue Individual interviews were held by Boardroom A meeting was held with Boardroom Individual interviews were held Ltd, the Chairman and Company Secretary, Dialogue Ltd with each of the Directors, the Dialogue Ltd, the Chairman and Company by Boardroom Dialogue Ltd with each of at which the scope and format of the Company Secretary, Deputy Company evaluation process was decided.
Secretary and members of the Secretary, at which the scope and format the Directors, the Company Secretary, Executive Committee.
A review of of the evaluation process was discussed.
Deputy Company Secretary and members Board documentation including A recommendation to proceed was of the Executive Committee.
A review meeting packs and agendas from the past 12 months was agreed by the Board.
of Board documentation including also conducted.
meeting packs and agendas f rom the External past 12 months was also conducted.
Evaluation Process Step 3 Boardroom Dialogue Ltd The findings of the evaluation attended the Board meeting process were compiled and Step 4 The findings of the evaluation in January and presented the reported to the Board via an Boardroom Dialogue Ltd attended the process were compiled and provided to findings of the evaluation in-depth report.
Board meeting in January 2016 and the Chairman and Company Secretary.
The recommendations presented the fimade w findings o ere c f t onsider he ev ed b aluy the ation These were then communicated to Board and actions identied for process.
The recommendations made the Board via an in-depth report.
were considered by the Board and actions identified for the coming year.
Key findings and objectives for 2016 17 Enhancing Board engagement Improving meeting administration External Evaluation Process Monitor the agenda setting process to ensure continued linkage Explore options for streamlining the format and volume of Board to strategy: review the allocation of time for site visits including the and Committee meeting packs, with continued timely dissemination process for reporting back to the Board: and consider increasing of all documentation.
the number of meetings of the non-Executive Directors in the Brieng Interview Discussion Board calendar.
Result and and and Engaging in Board development Con Csolla iderin tion g long-term succession planning Scope Review Objectives Identify complex or technical business areas that would benefit Continue to monitor and develop succession plans at Board level and from teach-ins and consider increasing the number of one-to-one increase visibility of the talent pipeline below the Board and upper meetings between the non-Executive Directors and members of level of senior management.
Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Non-Executive Director induction programme Crawford Gillies and Helen Mahy - Briefings on strategy, financial performance, the energy sector and priorities for long-term success from the Chief Executive: - overview on finance and the control environment, internal and external audit, risk and compliance with the Finance Director: - sessions with each of the Managing Directors of the key business areas including members of their leadership teams covering structure, strategy and performance: - comprehensive session with the Chairman on strategy and the operation of the Board and its Committees: - a meeting with the Company Secretary and Director of Investor Relations to review the Groups governance and policies, and investor relations matters: - overview of the political and external environment from the MD, Corporate Affairs: - details of HR policies, overview of the Leadership Blueprint, and ongoing work from the Director of Human Resources: - an update on regulatory and legislative matters including any significant issues facing the Group from the MD, Corporate and Business Services and the Director of Legal Services: and - meeting with the External Auditor.
77 S t e 1 p p 3 e t S Directors Report Corporate governance continued Effectiveness continued Accountability they are managed.
During the year the Board Chairman engagement Financial and business reporting has carried out a robust assessment of the As part of the transition from Deputy Chairman The Board recognises its responsibility for Principal Risks facing the Group, including those to Chairman, Richard Gillingwater participated preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and that would threaten its business model, future in a number of engagement activities during to present a fair, balanced and understandable performance, solvency or liquidity.
These included individual meetings assessment of the Groups position and on pages 16 and 17 of the Strategic Report with a number of shareholders covering a range prospects.
This assessment also extends to illustrates SSEs wider system of internal control.
of topics including specific governance matters, interim results statements and other price and stakeholder meetings such as consumer sensitive public announcements, reports to Boards review of internal control forums attended by Ofgem and Which.
regulators and information to be presented by The Board and Audit Committee have statutory requirements.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk Training and development management and system of internal control Directors are encouraged to develop and refresh The Directors statement set out on page 116 in line with the requirements of the Code for their knowledge and skills on an ongoing basis recognises and confirms these responsibilities, the period from 1 April 2015 to 17 May 2016 with developmental needs being reviewed as and further details of the Fair, Balanced and being the last practical day prior to printing part of the annual Board evaluation process, Understandable Assurance Framework used of this Annual Report and confirm that the and the necessary resources are made available by the Directors can be found on page 85.
The procedures and processes of the system of should any Director wish additional training.
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 65 explains the internal control, which accord with the Code The Company also operates performance basis on which the Group generates or preserves and appropriate Disclosure and Transparency coaching for the Executive Directors and value over the longer term, and the strategy for Rules, have been in place during that period.
for other members of senior management, delivering its objectives.
As such, the Annual which is designed to develop and enhance Report is intended to provide the information This review covered all material controls, individual and Company performance.
necessary to enable an assessment of the including financial, operational and compliance Companys position and performance, business controls and no significant failings or weaknesses In 2015 16 the non-Executive Directors model and strategy.
The responsibilities of the were identified.
In 2015 16, Ofgem opened an participated in various technical updates and External Auditor, KPMG, in relation to financial investigation into whether SSE infringed Chapter briefings, including one-to-one meetings reporting are set out in the Auditors report on II of the Competition Act 1998 and or Article 102 between individual directors and members pages 205 to 208.
Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of senior management.
Following any such in respect of the particular issue of provision of meetings the Director will provide feedback Risk management and internal control Points of Connection services in the Southern to the next Board meeting.
The Group Risk Management and Internal Control Electric Power Distribution area.
The Policy is underpinned by the principle that investigation is ongoing.
Information and briefings everyone in SSE has a responsibility for the Keeping up to date with key business management of risks.
To ensure the Groups Further details of the process undertaken developments is essential for Directors to success, it is critical that material risks are to review the system of internal control can maintain and enhance their effectiveness, and the understood and effectively managed, and that be found in the Audit Committee Report on details of Board Activity and Board Engagement decisions are taken with full consideration of these.
The risk and internal control in 2015 16 provided on page 74 gives an insight procedures described in this report have not into some of the activity undertaken during the The Board is responsible for ensuring that been extended to cover the Groups interests year.
The Board further receives regular updates SSE maintains an effective risk management in joint ventures.
SSE does however have on the progress and performance of investments framework as part of a sound system of internal representation on the Boards of its joint venture including a detailed KPI report from senior control.
The framework applies to all business companies.
In respect of its most significant management, and Board dinners are often practices including the Groups financial undertaking, SGN, the Board receives regular accompanied by presentations on topics reporting process including the preparation of updates on risk management and internal such as: the competitive environment: or the consolidated financial statements as described control activities and issues from its regulatory, political and economic landscape.
While SSE commits to representatives on the SGN Board, and ensuring that these systems remain robust and from the Chief Executive of SGN directly.
Site visits are arranged for the non-Executive effective, they are designed to manage rather Directors during the year in order to allow a than eliminate risk and as such can only Going Concern greater understanding of the operation of SSEs therefore provide reasonable rather than After making appropriate enquiries, the businesses.
During 2015 16 these included both absolute assurance.
Directors have a reasonable expectation that visits incorporated as part of on-site Board the Company and the Group have adequate meetings and those arranged independently of The Risk Management Framework has been resources to continue in operational existence the formal meeting schedule.
Details of Board designed to: for the foreseeable future 12 months.
The engagement outside of the Boardroom are set - ensure that the Board meets its obligations financial statements are therefore prepared out on page 74. under the Code: on a Going Concern basis.
Further details - encourage everyone in SSE to consider of the Groups liquidity position and Going Independent professional advice and discuss risk in the course of decision Concern review are provided in note 34 to There is an agreed procedure for Directors making: and the financial statements.
to take independent professional advice if - align with SSEs corporate governance necessary, at the Companys expense.
Any advice framework to ensure the most appropriate Viability Statement obtained shall be made available to the other levels of ownership and oversight.
The Directors statement of longer term viability members of the Board.
This procedure was not can be found on page 17 of the Strategic Report.
Pages 16 to 19 of the Strategic Report sets out SSEs Principal Risks and the processes by which 78 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
Relations with shareholders review analyst reports on a daily basis, strategy of the Company.
Shareholders are Governance and Disclosure Committee identifying relevant opinions and issues and invited to ask questions at the AGM in order to The Governance and Disclosure Committee is distributing them timeously to the Directors communicate their views.
The Notice of Annual a sub-Committee of the Executive Committee.
and other members of the senior management General Meeting, which contains full explanations The Committee monitors governance team, allowing them to form a view of the of the business to be conducted at the AGM, is set developments, advises on matters relating to priorities and concerns of SSEs shareholders.
out in a separate shareholder circular.
Voting is external affairs and assists in developing the During the year, SSE also commissioned an conducted by means of an electronic handset investor relations strategy.
It is responsible for independent investor and analyst perception and in the event of a significant vote against overseeing the Companys compliance with study to further understand the views of any resolution, appropriate steps will be taken regulatory and legal requirements including institutional investors and analysts.
to understand and address any underlying those arising from SSEs listing on the London shareholder concerns.
Details of the 2015 Stock Exchange, surrounding the release Communication with shareholders AGM and forthcoming AGM can be found and control of announcements and other SSEs website contains up-to-date information for in the table below.
information of interest to shareholders and the shareholders and other interested parties including investment community.
The Governance and share price information, announcements and Communications with other stakeholders Disclosure Committee comprises: the Chief news releases, investor and analyst presentations, The Executive Directors have a programme Executive: the Finance Director: the Company information on shareholder services and contact of events to meet with a range of external Secretary and Director of Investor Relations: details.
The Companys Annual Report and other stakeholders representing the regulatory the Managing Director, Corporate Affairs: the shareholder circulars are also published on the and government authorities, public sector, Managing Director, Corporate and Business SSE website.
investment community, environmental affairs, Services: the Director of Human Resources: and consumer interests.
The purpose of these the Director of Risk, Audit and Insurance: and Shareholders have a choice in how to receive their events is to discuss the Companys position on the Director of Legal Services.
The Deputy company communications such as the Annual a range of business, policy and public interest Company Secretary is Secretary to the Report.
The Company encourages shareholders issues, to learn more about stakeholders views, Committee.
The Committee meets as to receive electronic communication, and and to hear their suggestions and address any required and had six meetings in the year.
currently around 95% of shareholders receive areas of concern.
company communications such as the Annual Dialogue with investors Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting More generally, working with public policy The Company continues to maintain an effective electronically.
In order to make voting easier and makers is a vital area for the Company, given the dialogue with its shareholders which is primarily reduce SSEs environmental impact, from the 2017 high profile of energy and environment related delivered through a programme of meetings AGM paper proxy voting cards will only be sent to issues and SSE does this in several ways including and calls with shareholders and analysts led shareholders who have requested to receive a submission of consultation responses, meetings by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
hard copy of the Annual Report.
Shareholders and dialogue with different government and The Investor Relations team, managed by the who receive paper notification that the Annual non-government organisations, as well as active Company Secretary and Director of Investor Report is available online through the SSE website participation in relevant trade associations and Relations, administer the day to day operations will default to online voting in 2017.
and engagement with institutional and retail who wish to change their communication investors and market analysts.
In the last financial preference can do so by contacting the In all of its engagement with stakeholders, SSE year, the Chief Executive and Finance Director Companys Share Registrar, Capita Asset Services, seeks to adopt a straight forward and transparent have hosted over 100 meetings or calls with whose contact details can be found on page 209. approach, seeking outcomes that bring lasting existing or potential investors and analysts and benefits to customers and support the fair presented at several investor conferences.
Annual General Meeting remuneration of investment in the energy The AGM provides an opportunity for the Board industry in the UK and Ireland.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and to meet with shareholders and present an update members of the Executive Committee are also on the performance, key developments and available to engage with shareholders and the Chairman has attended several shareholder meetings and conferences over the last year.
In preparation for his new role the Chairman The AGM offered meetings to the top 10 shareholders and met a number of them to discuss their Annual General Meeting Overview opinions on governance and the challenges facing SSE.
During the year the Chairman and 23 July 2015 - Full Director attendance.
the Chair of the Remuneration Committee also Perth Concert Hall, Perth - Lord Smith of Kelvin stepped down from offered to engage with principal shareholders the Board as Chairman.
and shareholder representative bodies to discuss - At least 94% of votes received for the directors remuneration policy which led to a re-election of all other Directors.
number of calls and meetings.
- Highest votes in favour: 99.99% to receive the report and accounts.
Feedback from shareholder meetings is gathered - Lowest votes in favour: 91.78% to approve bi-annually through SSEs Corporate Brokers and 14 days notice of general meetings.
is presented to the Board.
Following changes 21 July 2016 - 17 Ordinary Resolutions and 3 Special in 2015 16, SSEs joint Corporate Brokers are Perth Concert Hall, Perth Resolutions being proposed to currently Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc shareholders.
