Directors Report Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder, We continually monitor the It has been a particularly busy year for the Nomination Committee, with six meetings in membership and composition of the 2015 16.
During this period we have welcomed two new non-Executive Directors to our Board Board, its Committees, and the internal and I assumed the role of Company Chairman when Lord Smith of Kelvin stood down at the talent pipeline, to ensure that they conclusion of our 2015 AGM.
support the long-term success of SSE.
It was outlined in last years report that succession plans in respect of a new nonExecutive Director were already well advanced.
We announced in June 2015 the appointment of Crawford Gillies as Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 August 2015.
It was highlighted at the AGM in July that a timing issue between the change in Chairman and the appointment of Crawford Gillies would give rise to a short period of non-compliance with certain provisions of the Code.
An explanation of the steps taken to mitigate these areas of non-compliance, such that our standards of corporate governance remained unaffected, can be found in the report that follows.
Upon welcoming Crawford Gillies to the Board on 1 August 2015, he became a member of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Helen Mahy then joined us on 1 March 2016 as a non-Executive Director, and became a member of the Nomination, Audit, and Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committees.
I am delighted to welcome both Crawford and Helen to SSE and following the changes outlined above, the Board now comprises the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, two Executive Directors and five non-Executive Directors.
As a Committee we fully recognise the stability that strong and balanced leadership affords.
It is therefore essential that we continually monitor Members and meetings the membership and composition of the Board, its Committees, and the internal talent pipeline, Independent nonto ensure that they support the long-term Members Executive Director Member since Attended scheduled success of SSE.
Richard Gillingwater n a September 2008 6 6 Committee Chairman Gregor Alexander No July 2014 6 6 Richard Gillingwater CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee Jeremy Beeton Yes July 2014 6 6 Katie Bickerstaffe Yes September 2011 6 6 Sue Bruce Yes July 2014 6 6 1 Crawford Gillies Yes August 2015 2 2 Peter Lynas Yes July 2014 6 6 2 Helen Mahy Yes March 2016 n a Alistair Phillips-Davies No July 2013 6 6 3 Lord Smith of Kelvin No March 2004 4 4 1 Crawford Gillies joined the Nomination Committee on 1 August 2015.
2 Helen Mahy joined the Nomination Committee on 1 March 2016.
3 Lord Smith of Kelvin retired from the Nomination Committee on 23 July 2015 upon stepping down from the Board.
Activities in 2015 16 The Nomination Committee had six meetings during the year and an overview of the work carried out during the period is set out in the table below.
Action Outcome Succession planning - Handover in Chairmanship upon stepping down of Lord Smith - Richard Gillingwater assumed the role of Chairman from his position of Kelvin.
as Deputy Chairman following a facilitated transition period.
- Conduct searches for two new non-Executive Directors, with - Recommendations to appoint Crawford Gillies as Senior one candidate to assume the role of Senior Independent Director.
Independent Director and Helen Mahy as non-Executive Director.
- Monitor plans for succession and refreshment of the Board and - An ongoing review of the succession pipeline for Board and senior senior management.
Director independence and conflicts - Review the independence of all non-Executive Directors.
- Confirmation that all non-Executive Directors remain independent - Review of declared and potential conflicts of interests of the in line with the Code.
- Made recommendation to the Board for approval.
Committee membership - Review Board Committee membership and consider the 9 day - Recommended changes to the membership of the Board period of non-compliance attributed to timing issues with changes Committees with the joining of two new non-Executive Directors.
Diversity - Monitor the diversity of the Board and recruit in line with the - Board appointments were made in consideration of the requisite Board Diversity Policy.
skills and experience required and in line with Board Policy.
Role - reviewing potential conflicts of interest Before a Board appointment is made, the The Nomination Committee reviews and of Directors: and Nomination Committee evaluates the skills, monitors the leadership needs of the Board - reviewing the external commitments of the knowledge and experience of the Board to and senior management, and supports SSEs Directors and the time required to discharge ensure that any new appointment complements continued ability to recruit the level and quality their responsibilities effectively.
existing qualities, and further identifies any areas of expertise it needs to ensure long-term in which representation is required.
The Nomination Committees remit, Composition are considered from a wide range of backgrounds which is set out in its terms of reference, The membership of the Nomination Committee and appointments are made on merit, with due includes responsibility for: comprises the full Board.
As such changes regard being given to the benefits of diversity - reviewing the structure, size and composition to membership during the year reflect the on the Board, including gender.
The Committee of the Board and its Committees and making changes that were made to the Board.
The table also assesses the current time commitments of recommendations to the Board on any opposite details the membership and meeting candidates as appropriate.
desired changes: attendance for the year.
The Company Secretary - reviewing the succession plans for the is Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
The selection process uses the services of a Executive Directors and senior management: professional search firm specialising in Board-level - making recommendations to the Board on Succession planning recruitment and generally involves interviews with suitable candidates to fill vacancies for both The Nomination Committee has responsibility a number of candidates.
In line with Board policy non-Executive and Executive Directors: to confirm that arrangements are in place to the Company strives to engage only with search - ensuring that the procedure for appointing support any changes in Board membership, firms that have signed up to the Voluntary Code new Directors is rigorous and transparent and takes responsibility for the programme of of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
and that appointments are made on merit planned refreshment, ensuring that the balance and against objective criteria, including of skills, knowledge and experience is both independence and diversity of candidates: maintained and appropriate.
81 Directors Report Nomination Committee Report continued Succession planning continued during 2015 16 to identify a further new The changes outlined above ensured that all When the Nomination Committee deals with non-Executive Director.
This was an extension Committees would be compliant with the Code any matter concerning the Chairmanship of the of earlier work with the overall desire being from 1 August 2015, with a short 9 day period Board, another non-Executive Director chosen to further increase the resilience and diversity of non-compliance occurring between 23 July by the remaining members chairs the meeting.
of the Board and resulted in the appointment and 1 August attributed to the timing between Members of the Nomination Committee do of Helen Mahy from 1 March 2016. appointments.
The relevant provisions of the not take part in discussions when their own Code from which there was a departure were: performance or their continued appointment The professional external search agency A.
4.1 in relation to the requirement for a Senior is being considered.
Sam Allen Associates were involved in the Independent Director: and C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 recruitment for both positions.
Sam Allen in relation to the number of independent In the course of its work the Nomination Associates are signed up to the Voluntary non-Executive Directors on the Audit and Committee also reviews leadership and succession Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, Remuneration Committees respectively.
at senior management level taking into account and have no other connection to SSE.
The process There was no formal Board or Committee the risks and opportunities facing the Company, conducted by Sam Allen Associates involved the activity planned for during this period to identifying required skills and expertise as initial identification of suitable candidates, followed ensure that standards of governance would appropriate.
The Companys talent management by an extensive benchmarking process of persons remain unaffected, and it is confirmed that programme and Leadership Blueprint helps meeting the desired criteria as agreed in advance this was indeed the position.
provide a robust process for succession and by the Nomination Committee.
A shortlist was development, and career progression.
then prepared and meetings were held with a Upon appointment on 1 March 2016 Helen Mahy number of Board members.
Following deliberation joined the Nomination, Audit and Safety, Health In 2015 16 the Chairman of the Board and it was agreed that Crawford Gillies and Helen and Environment Advisory Committees.
Nomination Committee attended and presented Mahys candidacies were complementary to at the SSE Leadership Conference, and participated the existing Board membership and that they Committee evaluation in a facilitated question and answer session were the preferred individuals for the role.
Details of the external evaluation of the full Board providing Board perspective on a range of matters.
A recommendation was therefore made to which was conducted during the period are The Conference is attended annually by a number the Board in respect of each appointment, provided on pages 76 and 77 of the Corporate of senior managers and individuals who have been which was subsequently agreed.
The process included identified for their development potential, and a review of all Board Committees and it was therefore provides oversight of the depth of talent Crawford Gillies and Helen Mahy are considered concluded that the relationship between the within the Company and creates the opportunity highly valuable additions to the Board as Board and its Committees was functioning well, to engage with individuals from all levels.
they bring a wealth of skills, and diversity of with all Committees fully meeting their remit.
Crawford Gillies Throughout the reporting year a number of possesses extensive, in-depth business and plc Independence individuals were also invited to attend and board experience, including expertise in matters The continuing independence of the nonpresent at meetings of the Board and in of finance and risk management, and Helen Executive Directors was considered and 2015 16 this totalled 41 members of the senior Mahy has relevant sector experience from her reviewed at the meeting of the Nomination management team.
Although this practice role at National Grid, a background in legal Committee in January 2016, with each member primarily ensures that progress updates are counsel, and a detailed knowledge of, and an abstaining from their own evaluation.
Richard received directly from each business area, interest in, the areas of inclusion and diversity.
Gillingwater was considered independent on it provides the Board with the opportunity to appointment as Chairman on 23 July 2015. meet the next tier of management.
Committee changes in 2015 16 Upon the announcement of Crawford Gillies Diversity Board succession in 2015 16 appointment from 1 August 2015 and in The Nomination Committee reviews the diversity On 23 July 2015, Richard Gillingwater assumed recognition of Richard Gillingwater within the organisation as a whole, including the role of Chairman, following on from his role commencing as Chairman on 23 July 2015, that of senior management and the talent as Deputy Chairman, and as successor to Lord the Nomination Committee proposed a number management pipeline.
In addition in 2015 16 Smith of Kelvin, who stepped down from the of changes to Board Committee membership in regular updates have been provided to the Board Board after 10 years of tenure.
The changes allowed the level of expertise from Human Resources on matters including: recruitment process for this appointment and knowledge within each Committee to be Human Capital: Diversity and Inclusion: and was set out in last years Annual Report and in retained, whilst ensuring that there was a fair Gender Pay.
The Executive Committee further preparation for the role Richard Gillingwater division of responsibilities between the receives quarterly updates on the work that is reduced his number of external commitments non-Executive Directors.
In summary the being carried out in these areas.
Further detail on including his two major non-Executive roles at changes were: Group wide initiatives can be found on pages 24 Hiscox Ltd and Wm Morrisons Supermarkets plc.
- on 23 July 2015, Richard Gillingwater to 27 in the Strategic Report.
became Chairman of the Nomination At this time, significant progress had been made Committee, ceased to be a member of in a focussed search for a new non-Executive the Audit Committee, and stood down as Director who could take on the role of Senior Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Independent Director and it was subsequently although continue as a member: announced in June 2015 that Crawford Gillies - on 23 July 2015, Katie Bickerstaffe became was to be appointed from 1 August 2015.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee: and Following the successful appointment of - on 1 August 2015, Crawford Gillies became Crawford Gillies, the Nomination Committee a member of the Nomination, Audit and undertook a second recruitment process Remuneration Committees.
Board diversity The recommendation of the Davies Review Membership diversity which was first commissioned in 2010 was that FTSE 100 companies should aim for a minimum of 25% female representation on Board diversity, by gender Female representation on the Board Boards by 2015.
The Company is committed to the approach on diversity set out in the Davies Report, and continues to monitor any future 33% 33% recommendations in line with the five year summary which was published in October 2015.
33 25% 22% The female representation of the SSE Board is 20% currently above the original recommendation at 66 33% and an overview of the diversity represented 11% by the SSE Board is detailed in the diagram opposite.
The Nomination Committee will further monitor and consider diversity for future 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Board appointments whilst continuing to recruit on merit.
During the year the Nomination Male Female Committee also reviewed the Board Diversity Policy as outlined below.
Board diversity, by sector Board diversity, by age years 1 1 2 1 3 Board Diversity Policy The Nomination Committee 1 reviewed and the Board approved a 2 revised Board Diversity Policy during 4 1 1 the year.
The purpose of the review 1 was to ensure that the Policy reflected both existing practices and the ongoing work of the Nomination Utilities Retail 46-50 51-55 56-60 61-65 Committee and Board in this area, Banking Public sector including during the recruitment Major projects Defence Risk and Consultancy of potential candidates for Board positions.
The Policy is designed to encourage continued progress, as the Board and Nomination Committee Board diversity, by tenure years recognise the benefits of diversity in the creation of a resilient and effective Board.
Progress against 0-3 4 Policy objectives will continue to be monitored and will be reported 3-6 2 in due course.
