Audit Committee report At a glance Meetings attended in year out of maximum % attended Committee member Member since possible in year Ian Bull Sep 2014 5 5 100% 1 Kay Chaldecott Dec 2012 4 5 80% 2 Lesley James Oct 2009 4 5 80% Richard Mully Sep 2013 5 5 100% 1 Unable to attend the meeting in May 2016 due to a prior business commitment.
2 Unable to attend the meeting in June 2016 due to a prior personal commitment.
Committee meeting attendees by invitation Bill Shannon Chairman Rob Hudson Group Finance Director The Committees activities Simon Clarke non-executive director th continue to enhance how Andy Taylor to 29 February 2016 and Simon Redfern from th 9 May 2016 Group Financial Controller we understand and monitor th David Edwards to 30 November 2016 and Rebecca Cooke st of PwC from 1 December 2016 Head of Internal Audit the business.
Tanya Stote Company Secretary and secretary to the Ian Bull Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 Representatives from Deloitte external auditor Representatives from Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Lang LaSalle external valuers Principal role Representatives from PwC tax compliance, RSM risk management and BDO internal audit and controls Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and audit external advisers processes and the development and maintenance of sound th systems of risk management and internal control.
1 Following the announcement made by the Company on 28 April 2016 regarding its intention to recommend to shareholders the appointment of KPMG as its th external auditor for the year ending 30 November 2017, representatives from KPMG were also invited to attend to support a smooth transition from Deloitte Key activities in 2015 16 from this point onwards.
Competitive tender held for the external auditor appointment.
Oversight of outsourcing of internal audit function.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the th Committees report for the financial year ended 30 November Focus on the Groups approach to the management of risk, 2016.
The report is intended to provide meaningful insight into mitigating actions and provisions.
the Committees activities in the year and sets out how we have performed our responsibilities in relation to those areas within Areas of focus for 2016 17 the Committees terms of reference, including financial reporting, internal control, risk management and external audit matters.
Continuous improvement of risk management and internal controls.
The year was one of good progress in a number of areas which continue to enhance how we understand and monitor the business.
Continuing enhancements to the Groups risk assurance A Group-wide initiative was instigated to review and refresh the risk framework, including cyber security.
management process to ensure it remained effective in supporting Embedding internal audit now outsourced to PwC into an the identification and management of the uncertainties faced by integrated approach to management of risk and controls.
These activities were underpinned by strong leadership from the Board and executive directors, which was cascaded down Terms of reference to individual regions, divisions and functional departments, thereby www.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance enhancing the risk management culture across the business.
Additional scope for internal audit activities was agreed and implemented, initially through a co-sourcing model supported by BDO and culminating in the decision to fully outsource the function st to PwC with effect from 1 December 2016 following a competitive tender process.
As noted in last years report, the Committee determined that the external audit would be put out to competitive tender during 2016 in line with regulatory requirements.
That process was concluded in April with a recommendation by the Committee to the Board to St. Modwen Properties PLC 64 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information appoint KPMG as the Companys external auditor for the 2016 17 Representatives from the external auditor are invited to each financial year.
Deloitte, the Companys current auditor, will remain meeting together with other Board members, the Group Financial in post to complete the 2015 16 year end audit: I would like to take Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and the Company Secretary.
this opportunity to offer my thanks to them for their service over the Representatives from both Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Lang years and commitment to ensuring a smooth handover to KPMG.
LaSalle JLL, the external valuers, are invited to attend meetings at which the half year and annual valuations of the Groups investment In conjunction with the external audit tender, the Committee also properties are considered by the Committee.
Representatives considered and reaffirmed the arrangements it has developed to from the Groups external advisors, such as PwC tax compliance define and manage the use of the external auditor for non-audit and RSM risk management, are invited to attend meetings as services.
These are key to ensuring the continued independence appropriate.
Following the announcement made by the Company and objectivity of the external auditor and we will continue to th on 28 April 2016 regarding its intention to recommend to report on the non-audit services undertaken in line with these shareholders the appointment of KPMG as its external auditor for arrangements in future reports.
th the year ending 30 November 2017, representatives from KPMG I am encouraged by the progress which continues to be made were also invited to attend meetings to support a smooth transition and would like to thank my fellow Committee members for from Deloitte.
their continued support and commitment to ensuring effective At least once a year, immediately following a Committee governance through the Committees activities.
My thanks also meeting, the Committee meets separately with the external go to the executive team for their positive engagement on matters audit engagement partner and with the Head of Internal Audit within the Committees remit.
to give them the opportunity to discuss matters without executive Finally, after just over seven years service, Lesley James will be management being present.
The Committee Chairman also holds stepping down as a member of the Committee following the separate one to one meetings with the Group Finance Director, announcement of the Companys 2016 results.
I am grateful to the Head of Internal Audit and with Deloitte, typically ahead of Lesley for her unwavering advice and support and I look forward Committee meetings, to better understand the issues and areas to continuing to work with her on the Boards wider agenda.
of concerns and to make sure adequate time is devoted to these matters at the subsequent meeting.
These arrangements will I hope that the following report provides a useful guide to the continue following the appointments of KPMG and PwC.
activities of the Committee during the year.
The Committee has direct access to the Head of Internal Audit, the external audit engagement partner and the external valuers outside Ian Bull formal Committee meetings.
Whilst permitted to do so, no member Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought outside th 6 February 2017 professional advice beyond that which was provided directly to the Committee during the financial year.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated during the year by way of a questionnaire which was completed by all members Committee membership of the Committee as well as those who attended Committee All members of the Committee are independent non-executive meetings.
Feedback received was supportive of the manner in directors, with each bringing broad financial and commercial which the Committee operated, but recommended that a further experience at senior levels across a range of industries.
The meeting be added to the annual schedule to better accommodate Committees composition is kept under review by the Nomination the Committees oversight of risk management and internal control: Committee, which is responsible for making recommendations to this was introduced during the year.
The scope and resourcing the Board as to its membership.
of the internal audit function was also highlighted: steps taken to strengthen this during the year can be found in the section headed Ian Bull was appointed Committee Chairman in March 2015.
Ian Internal audit on page 69. was Chief Financial Officer of Ladbrokes plc until February 2016 and is currently Chief Financial Officer of Parkdean Resorts UK Ltd.
The Board considers him to have significant, recent and relevant Activities of the Committee during the year financial experience as required by the Code and is of the view that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector Reporting in which the Company operates.
The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the Groups All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction financial reporting is to review with both management and the to ensure that they have an understanding of the principles of, external auditor the integrity of the half year and annual financial and recent developments in, financial reporting, key aspects of statements with particular focus on: the Companys accounting policies and judgements, and internal the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies control and risk management arrangements, as well as the role of and practices: the internal and external auditors.
Ongoing training is undertaken as required.
material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where significant financial issues have been discussed with the external auditor: How the Committee operates the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial The Committee met five times during the year: the schedule reporting standards and relevant financial and governance included a separate meeting with specific focus on risk reporting requirements, such as statements on viability and management and internal controls plus a stand-alone meeting going concern: and with the external valuers to review and discuss their valuation reports.
Meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced to a Board meeting to maximise the efficiency of interaction with and understandable and provides the information necessary the Board and the Committee Chairman reports to the Board, for shareholders to assess the Companys position and as a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee performance, business model and strategy.
and matters of relevance to the Board in the conduct of its work.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 65 Audit Committee report continued Accounting policies and practices Significant judgements and financial issues The Committee received reports from management in relation to The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers the continuing appropriateness of accounting policies applied by to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, the Group and any changes required as a consequence of the or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in implementation of new accounting standards.
their application to the Group financial statements.
The significant financial issues considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 During the year, the Group adopted the amendments to IAS19 financial statements, and how these were addressed, are outlined Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions and the amendments below.
The Committee discussed these with the external auditor to IAS27 Equity method in separate financial statements along with and, where appropriate, how these were addressed by Deloittes amendments relating to IASBs annual improvements exercise.
The adoption of these amendments had no material impact on Independent auditors report the Group financial statements.
See pages 104 to 109 Following consideration and discussions with Deloitte, the Committee was satisfied that the accounting policies and related disclosure in this Annual Report was appropriate.
Accounting policies See pages 114 to 120 Significant issue Work undertaken by and conclusion of the Committee Valuation of investment properties The Committee adopts a formal approach by which the valuation process, methodology, assumptions and outcomes are reviewed and robustly challenged.
The valuation of St. Modwens investment properties This includes separate review and scrutiny by both management and the is a key determinant of the Groups balance sheet Committee, with members of the Committee discussing the valuations both prior and performance as well as executive variable to and at Committee meetings in January and June.
It also includes the external remuneration.
auditor which is assisted by its own specialist team of chartered surveyors who Although the portfolio valuation is conducted are familiar with the valuation approach and UK property market.
externally by independent valuers, the nature of The external auditor has direct access to the Groups valuers and their remit valuation estimates is inherently subjective and extends to investigating and confirming that no undue influence has been requires significant judgements and assumptions exerted by management in relation to the valuations.
The external auditor to be made by the valuers.
These include market reviewed the valuations and process and reported its findings to the Committee.
comparable yields, estimates in relation to future rental income, void periods, purchaser costs, Both Cushman & Wakefield and JLL submit their valuation reports to the together with remediation and other costs to Committee as part of the half year and full year results process.
Both valuers complete, some of which require management input.
were asked to present their valuation reports at Committee meetings and These judgements and assumptions are subject to highlight any significant judgements made or disagreements between market forces and will change accordingly.
themselves and management: there were none.
Against the backdrop of the uncertainty created by the UKs vote to leave the EU, the Committee also considered the extent to which this could impact the property investment and lettings market in terms of both activity and liquidity.
Based on the degree of oversight and challenge applied to the valuation process, the Committee concluded that the valuation as a whole had each been conducted appropriately, independently and in accordance with the valuers professional standards.
Net realisable value of inventories The Committee reviewed managements assessment as to whether any provision was required against the carrying value of inventory, either at Group The Groups inventories, comprising property held level or within any joint venture arrangements.
The assessment process for sale, property under development commenced undertaken to determine net realisable value was considered by the Committee, with a view to sale and land under option, is of which included ongoing monitoring by management as well as detailed reviews significant value.
at both the half and full year.
Cushman & Wakefield also provided valuations for All inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net certain sites, typically new build units not yet sold.
realisable value and appropriate allowances are The Committee concluded that the judgements and estimates made by made for remediation and other costs to complete.
management were in line with Group policy, reasonable and appropriate.
For the majority of inventories held, management rely on their own internal procedures for assessing the carrying value of inventory.
These require a number of judgements to be made, such as forecast revenue and costs, that derive a profit margin over the development and provide an indication of the recoverability of the inventory.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 66 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Significant issue Work undertaken by and conclusion of the Committee New Covent Garden Market Following the initial recognition in 2015, the Committee has continued to assess the appropriateness of the accounting treatment adopted and associated Certain property transactions entered into by the disclosure, particularly given the scale and complexity of the proposed Group involve an element of complexity and the need development.
to exercise judgement to determine the most appropriate accounting treatment.
Such transactions In particular, the Committee: include the regeneration of the New Covent Garden assessed with both JLL and management the valuation assumptions for the Market site in Nine Elms, London, which became surplus land, enabling costs and overage, and the costs of procuring the new unconditional in April 2015. market facilities: Balance sheet recognition of the Groups interest reviewed the measurement of the liability to procure the new market facilities: comprised accounting for the right to secure the and interest in the surplus land together with the associated obligation to procure the new market reviewed the classification of the Groups interest in the surplus land as for the Covent Garden Market Authority.
As with the rest of the portfolio, significant The Committee concluded and Deloitte concurred that the accounting judgements and assumptions are made by treatment adopted and valuation assumptions made were appropriate.
JLL, our independent valuers of this project, Further information on the accounting judgements made is set out in the in arriving at the valuation, some of which required accounting policies note on page 119. management input.
Tax provisions Based on reports from management and PwC the Groups tax compliance advisor, the Committee has continued to assess the risk of challenge and As a property group, tax and its treatment is often individual judgements made by management in respect of tax provisions and an integral part of transactions undertaken by was satisfied that the mitigating actions and resultant level of tax provisioning St. Modwen.
The outcomes of tax treatments are at both the full year and half year remained appropriate.
recognised by the Group to the extent the outcome is reasonably certain.
Further disclosure on taxation is set out in note 5 to the Group financial statements and the accounting policies note on page 120.
Where tax treatments have been challenged by HMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, or new tax regulation is introduced, provision is made for the best estimate of potential exposure based on the information available at the reporting date.
Viability and going concern Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee provides advice to the Board on the form and basis When reporting to shareholders the Board aims to present a fair, underlying both the going concern statement and the longer-term balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys viability statement.
position and performance and is assisted in this by the Committee.
This responsibility covers the annual and half year reports and As both statements rely on forecasts, the Committee considered financial statements, as well as trading updates and other financial the assumptions and judgements applied by management in reporting.
relation to the timing of receipt and payment cash flows, the ongoing availability of funding and covenant compliance.
The The Committee is satisfied and has confirmed to the Board that Committee also reviewed the sensitivity analysis prepared by the 2016 Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced management, including the assumptions made.
and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, The Committee concluded that it remains appropriate for the business model and strategy.
financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis and recommended the viability statement to the Board.
In reaching this view the Committee considered the robust and well-established processes in place to prepare the Annual Report Going concern statement and financial statements which includes: See page 102 clear guidance and instruction is given to all contributors: Viability statement See page 52 revisions to regulatory requirements and governance principles, including the Code, are continually monitored: meetings are held with the auditors in advance of the year end reporting process: input is provided by senior management to identify relevant and material information and ensure accurate, consistent and balanced reporting: detailed debates and discussions regarding principal risks and uncertainties: St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 67 Audit Committee report continued focused review and approval of specific sections by the relevant Non-audit fees Board Committees, supported by regular reporting by Board Committees to the Board on their activities: To help safeguard Deloittes objectivity and independence, the Committee has approved a non-audit services policy which a review by the Committee of reports prepared by management sets out the circumstances and financial limits within which the on accounting estimates and judgements, auditor reports on external auditor may be permitted to provide certain non-audit internal controls, accounting and reporting matters and a services such as tax and other services.
management representation letter concerning accounting and reporting matters: This policy sets a presumption that Deloitte should only be engaged for non-audit services where there is an obvious consideration of the draft Annual Report and financial and compelling reason to do so for example their expertise statements by the Committee in advance of final sign-off: and or ability to provide the services and provided such work does review and approval by the external auditor.
not impair their independence or objectivity and has no impact on the audited financial statements.
It prohibits Deloitte from The Board takes into account the view of the Committee providing certain services including legal, valuation, actuarial when undertaking its own review of the document prior to and internal audit.
Where Deloitte can be engaged and their giving final approval.
fees are anticipated to exceed 25,000, advance approval of the Audit Committee on the recommendation of the Group External auditor Finance Director is required: no such approvals were sought Deloitte, as the external auditor, is engaged to express an opinion in the year.
on the Companys and the Groups financial statements.
Their audit The Committee is advised of all non-audit services provided, includes a review and test of the systems of internal control and irrespective of value, and reviews all expenditure annually.
Save data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary for any fees payable for non-audit work required to be carried to express an audit opinion on them.
out by the external auditor by law or regulation, the policy limits the total fees payable to the external auditor for non-audit Audit plan services to no more than 70% of the average of the audit fees th In respect of the audit for the financial year ended 30 November paid in the last three consecutive financial years for the audit 2016, Deloitte presented their audit plan prepared in consultation of the Company and the Group.
with management and the Head of Internal Audit to the Committee.
Non-audit fees paid to Deloitte in the year totalled 22,000 The audit plan took into account key changes in the business and 2015: 107,000, representing 5% 2015: 31% of the fees the impact of these on materiality, scope and risk assessment.
paid for audit and audit-related assurance services, and The audit fee, which was approved by the Committee, was felt principally related to a minor piece of real estate advice.
to be appropriate given the scope of work whilst not adversely affecting Deloittes independence or objectivity.
Further information on the remuneration of the external auditor can be found in note 3b to the Group financial statements.
Independence The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the Effectiveness objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
In undertaking The Committee has undertaken a review of Deloittes performance its assessment, the Committee has reviewed: and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The review the confirmation from Deloitte that they maintain appropriate wasprimarily undertaken by way of an extensive questionnaire on internal safeguards in line with applicable professional standards: external audit effectiveness which was completed by management and assessed by the Committee.
The Committee also considered the Financial Reporting Councils May 2016 Audit Quality aself-assessment carried out by Deloitte on audit objectives, Inspection Report in respect of Deloittes audit engagements leadership, qualification, quality and independence, together with and the firms policies and procedures supporting audit quality: Deloittes experience and expertise, the extent to which the audit the mitigating actions taken by the Committee in seeking to plan had been met, its robustness and perceptiveness with regard safeguard Deloittes independent status, including the operation to key accounting and audit judgements, and the content of its of policies designed to regulate the appointment of former audit reports.
employees of the external audit firm and the extent of non-audit The Committee remains satisfied with Deloittes performance and services provided by the external auditor: is of the view that there is nothing of concern that would impact the tenure of the audit engagement partner not being greater the effectiveness of the external audit process.
than five years : and the performance evaluation of Deloitte.
Taking the above review into account, the Committee concluded that Deloitte remained objective and independent in their role as external auditor.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 68 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The Committee reviews and approves annually the audit plan for Tender arolling three year period which is closely aligned to the key risks Deloitte has been the Companys external auditor since 2007. the business faces.
It also has input into ensuring that adequate Thecurrent audit engagement partner, Jonathan Dodworth, resources are made available and that the necessary support was appointed for the 2011 12 financial year audit and, in line is provided by the business to accomplish the agreed work with ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices Board, programme.
The Committee Chairman meets with the Head can remain in post until the conclusion of the audit for the financial of Internal Audit regularly to discuss activities and the nature of th year ended 30 November 2016. any significant issues which may have arisen.
During the year, in line with UK regulatory requirements and During 2016 the Committee agreed to the extension of scope and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the resourcing of the internal audit function to ensure that the agreed Committee undertook a competitive tender for the external audit.
audit plan could be delivered.
BDO were initially engaged on a A management panel was formed, led by the Committee Chairman co-sourcing basis to work alongside the internal audit function and involving the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, anda number of improvements to enhance reporting were made.
to conduct the initial stages of the process which comprised: However, as the complexity and reach of the business continues to grow, the Committee recognised the benefits that a fully outsourced meetings and follow up calls with the proposed audit teams to internal audit function could offer.
Consequently, a competitive understand their audit approach and discuss key accounting tender process was undertaken and the Committee approved the judgements, governance and internal controls: appointment of PwC to provide internal audit services with effect sessions with relevant employees, including the wider finance st from 1 December 2016. team, to better understand the Groups operations: As PwC is engaged by the Group to provide tax compliance advice, tours of Longbridge Town Centre, Bay Campus at Swansea extensive enquiries were made prior to their appointment to ensure University and Nine Elms in London in respect of the surplus that this advisory role did not compromise their independence.
It is land at New Covent Garden Market: also intended that no new areas of tax work be allocated to PwC.
Whilst both management and the Committee were comfortable discussions with Deloitte as to their experience of the audit that no potential conflicts arose from the foreseeable internal process since appointment: audit activities, safeguards have been put in place to ensure that interviews with suggested audit engagement partners: and alternative arrangements will be made, with Committee approval as necessary, should a conflict arise.
a presentation to the Audit Committee.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed annually Detailed evaluation criteria and a scoring matrix were used to assist by the Committee, primarily by assessing performance against the Committee in making its decision.
Having taken appropriate theInternal Audit Charter.
The Committee remained satisfied that references, the tender process concluded with a recommendation the function continued to operate effectively throughout the year.
from the Committee to the Board that, subject to shareholder Itwas the Committees intention to seek an independent external approval at the 2017 AGM, KPMG be appointed as external auditor th review of the function in 2016, however, in light of the decision to for the financial year ending 30 November 2017.
The transition outsource, this has been postponed to allow PwC sufficient time process is underway, with representatives from KPMG attending totransition into the role.
During 2017 the Committee will review Committee meetings by invitation.
PwCs activities and performance to ensure that the internal audit There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys services meet the scope and quality required.
choice of an external auditor and the Company confirms that it has complied with the relevant parts of the Competition and Markets Risk management and internal control Authority Final Order on the statutory audit market for the year th ended 30 November 2016.
During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk Internal audit management procedures and compliance controls, as well as The Group has an internal audit function which reports to the the Companys statements on internal controls, before they Committee and works under the supervision of the Group Finance were agreed by the Board for this Annual Report.
Its key objectives are to provide independent and objective In doing so the Committee considered: assurance that each business area implements and maintains appropriate and effective controls.
An Internal Audit Charter, which the Groups risk register, including significant and emerging risks, is reviewed annually, governs its remit and sets out the standards mitigating controls in place and how exposures have changed against which activities are undertaken.
over the reporting period: Internal audit is a standing agenda item at each Committee internal audit reports on key audit areas and any significant meeting.
Reports from the Head of Internal Audit usually include deficiencies in the control environment: updates on audit activities, progress of the Group audit plan, management reports on the systems of internal controls and risk theresults of internal audits and the status of implementation of management, including tax compliance: recommendations to address any unsatisfactory areas.
During the year, internal audits were carried out across a number of areas external audit reports from Deloitte which included details of their including third party contract management, cyber and IT security risk assessment process for the purposes of audit: and the facilities management arrangements St. Modwen Student actual and potential legal claims and litigation involving the Group: Living at Bay Campus, Swansea University.
internal audit reports on potential fraudulent activities perpetrated against the Group: the effectiveness of the internal audit function: and the Groups approach to IT, cyber security and whistleblowing.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 69 Audit Committee report continued A significant project to review the Groups risk appetite, risk register and the monitoring and mitigation of risks has taken place during Whistleblowing and fraud the year, in consultation with RSM.
A risk appetite framework The Groups whistleblowing policy encourages employees toensure that St. Modwen continues to operate within a level of to report, in confidence and anonymously if preferred, concerns risk exposure acceptable to the Board is being developed.
In 2017, about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing in any matters therevised risk appetite framework, and associated tolerance affecting the business.
Reports can be made by confidential levels, will be completed and will be regularly reassessed.
A suite telephone reporting lines and a secure website reporting facility ofkey risk indicators will also be established and integrated into the which are operated by an independent third party.
Any matters overall framework for risk monitoring.
reported are investigated by management and, where The Committee has carried out a robust assessment of the principal appropriate, reported to the Committee together with details of risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its any corrective action taken.
During the year one whistleblowing business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The incident was reported to the Committee and, following review, Groups risk management framework incorporates both a topit was satisfied that matters had been dealt with appropriately.
down and bottom-up approach to the evaluation of risk, to ensure The Groups fraud prevention policy requires employees to that there is a common understanding of those risks to which the be alert to the possibility of the threat of fraud and to report Group is exposed and their potential impact on the performance immediately any concerns they have.
The Company remains of the business and achievement of strategy.
vigilant against such risk, including fraudulent payment requests, To inform the Committees assessment of the effectiveness of the and continues to ensure the adequacy of controls and procedures internal control environment, BDO were engaged during the year to prevent such fraud.
The Committee is made aware of all to review managements self-assessment of the internal control potential fraudulent activity.
environment and to feedback to the Committee.
Positive assurance was derived from BDO being able to attest that the majority of the financial and non-financial control statements remained both relevant and in place.
Control improvement recommendations made as a result of their review are in the process of being addressed.
Risk management See pages 45 to 47 St. Modwen Properties PLC 70 Annual report and financial statements 2016
