Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Nomination Committee report At a glance Meetings attended in year out of maximum % attended Committee member Member since possible in year Ian Bull Sep 2014 6 6 100% Kay Chaldecott Mar 2013 6 6 100% Lesley James Oct 2009 6 6 100% Richard Mully Sep 2013 6 6 100% Bill Shannon Nov 2010 6 6 100% Committee meeting attendees by invitation th Bill Oliver to 30 November 2016, Mark Allan from st 1 December 2016 Chief Executive Simon Clarke non-executive director The Committee will continue Tanya Stote Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee to review succession plans in the context of the Groups The Committee plays a vital role in ensuring that St. Modwen is headed by a Board which is collectively responsible for the strategy.
long-term success of the Company and is best placed to operate effectively in the context of our strategic objectives.
Bill Shannon Its core responsibility is to manage the appointment of new Chairman of the Nomination Committee directors to the Board and, in 2016, its primary focus was to identify a successor for Bill Oliver, who retired as Chief Executive th on 30 November 2016.
The Committee considered a number of strong candidates for the role and, following a comprehensive Principal role interview process, we were delighted to announce, in April 2016, the appointment of Mark Allan.
Mark, previously Chief Executive of Reviews the succession planning and leadership needs of the The Unite Group plc, has extensive knowledge and experience of Group and leads the process for Board appointments, ensuring the property sector combined with strong operational leadership that directors have an appropriate range of skills and experience and financial and strategic management capability.
He joined the to deliver St. Modwens strategy.
st Board on 1 November 2016 as Chief Executive Designate and st became Chief Executive on 1 December 2016.
Key activities in 2015 16 To be effective, Board succession planning must look beyond matters such as tenure of appointment and consider the extent Selected and recommended the appointment of Mark Allan to which the collective skills, experience and capabilities of the as Chief Executive.
directors support the Groups strategic direction.
The Committee Reviewed and recommended the re-appointment of Simon has developed a skills matrix to support its assessment of such Clarke, Lesley James, Richard Mully and Bill Shannon.
matters and to guide potential recruitment needs over the mediumterm.
The Committee also considers the matrix, together with Development of a skills matrix against which Board matters such as independence and individual performance, when competencies were assessed.
making its recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In the year, Simon Clarke, Lesley James, Richard Mully and Bill Shannon were re-appointed to the Board.
Areas of focus for 2016 17 Looking forward to 2017, the Committee will continue to review Continue to monitor Board and senior management succession plans in the context of the Groups strategy to ensure succession in the context of the Companys medium that arrangements are in place for the orderly and progressive and longer-term strategy.
refreshing of the Board and to identify key talent within the Support management and the Board in promoting diversity business with potential for appointment to senior management across the workforce.
Terms of reference Recognising the benefits that diversity can bring, and noting www.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance publications such as Sir John Parkers report on ethnic diversity and the Hampton-Alexander Review of gender diversity in FTSE companies, the Committee will also continue to support management and the Board in promoting parity of representation across the workforce.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 71 Nomination Committee report continued Meaningful reporting on the activities of the Committee is Appointment of Chief Executive challenging due to the sensitive nature of the matters which fall In conjunction with the announcement made in February 2016 within its remit.
However, the remainder of this report attempts th regarding Bill Olivers intention to retire on 30 November 2016, to provide insight into the way in which the Committee operates the Committee engaged the Zygos Partnership, a leading executive and its activities during the year: I hope you find it informative.
search firm, to assist with the search for an individual to replace him as Chief Executive.
Zygos has no other connection with the Company other than in its capacity as a search consultant.
Bill Shannon Chairman of the Nomination Committee The search, led by the Chairman, commenced with an assessment th 6 February 2017 by the Committee of the skills and experience required for the role of Chief Executive in the context of the Groups strategy.
The outturn of this assessment was used to form the basis of a broad candidate specification which was agreed by the Committee Committee membership and used by Zygos to identify potential candidates.
Zygos was also given the opportunity to meet with the executive directors including All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Bill Oliver in order that they could gain further insights into the role directors, with each bringing broad financial and commercial within the context of the organisation.
experience at senior levels across a range of industries.
The Committee is responsible for keeping its composition under A list of potential candidates, including both men and women review and for making recommendations to the Board as to that occupied Chief Executive or senior operational roles in listed its membership.
and private companies across both property and other business sectors, was considered and a shortlist of candidates who were The Chairman of the Board chairs all meetings of the Committee felt to offer the best fit against the specification was drawn up.
unless they relate to the appointment of his successor: for these Interviews were conducted, initially by the Chairman and the SID meetings, the Senior Independent Director SID is invited to take and subsequently with all other non-executive directors.
Once a the Chair unless the SID is in contention for the role.
preferred candidate had been identified, Steve Burke Group Construction Director and Rob Hudson Group Finance Director How the Committee operates were invited to meet with the individual.
The Committee meets on an ad hoc basis, usually immediately prior The Committee worked closely with the Remuneration Committee to or following a Board meeting, but on other occasions as may be and its advisers to consider the detailed remuneration arrangements needed.
It met formally on six occasions during the year, primarily in respect of the appointment in the context of the Companys to progress the appointment of a new Chief Executive.
A number of shareholder-approved remuneration policy.
informal meetings, conference calls and discussions also took place between Committee members, search consultants and potential After careful consideration, the Committee unanimously concluded candidates throughout the recruitment process.
The Committee that the appointment of Mark Allan, then Chief Executive at Chairman reports to the Board, as a separate agenda item, on the The Unite Group plc, be recommended to the Board.
The Board activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the unanimously approved the recommendation and his appointment Board in the conduct of its work.
Mark joined the Company on st 1 November 2016 as Chief Executive Designate to allow time Only members of the Committee have the right to attend meetings.
for a handover of responsibilities from Bill Oliver.
He became Chief However, an invitation to attend meetings is extended to Simon st Executive with effect from 1 December 2016.
Clarke, a non-executive director, and the Chief Executive attends for all or part of meetings by invitation in order that the Committee can Re-appointment of non-executive directors understand his views, particularly on key talent within the business.
Tanya Stote, Company Secretary, is secretary to the Committee.
Independent non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are appointed by the Board for an initial three-year term and typically The performance of the Committee was evaluated during the year serve a second three-year term.
Beyond this, a third term of up to by way of a questionnaire which was completed by all members three years may be served subject to a particularly rigorous review of the Committee as well as those who attended Committee and taking into account the need for progressive refreshment of meetings.
Feedback received was supportive of the manner in the Board.
Appointments are subject to satisfactory performance which the Committee operated, but highlighted that there was reviews, re-election by shareholders and statutory provisions scope to improve further the structure and framework around its relating to the removal of directors.
Details of the steps taken to address this can be found below in the section headed Succession The terms of service of the Chairman and the other non-executive planning on page 73. directors are contained in letters of appointment.
These set out the time commitment expected from each non-executive director to Activities of the Committee during the year ensure they perform their duties satisfactorily.
Each non-executive director confirms that they are able to allocate the time commitment Appointment and re-appointment of directors required at the time of their appointment and thereafter as part of their individual annual effectiveness review undertaken by the The Committee leads the process for appointments to the Chairman or the SID in the case of the Chairmans review.
Board and makes recommendations to the Board when suitable candidates have been identified in line with Board-approved During the year, the Committee considered the re-appointment procedures.
When a vacancy arises, the Committee evaluates of Simon Clarke non-executive director, Lesley James the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on Remuneration Committee Chairman, Richard Mully SID and the Board before preparing a description of the role and capabilities Bill Shannon Chairman.
In making its recommendations, which required for that appointment.
Where appropriate external were approved by the Board and are set out on page 73, the recruitment consultants are engaged to assist with the search Committee considered the relevant directors skills, experience, process.
Appointments are made based on merit whilst having independence and performance, succession planning in the context regard to the need to maintain Board diversity in all its forms.
of the Companys strategy and the extent to which it was satisfied that the director would be able to continue to dedicate sufficient time to fulfil their role on the Board.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 72 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Simon Clarke: completed 10 years service and re-appointed Board diversity for a further one-year term.
Whilst not considered to be All aspects of diversity, including but not limited to gender, are independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance considered during the recruitment process at every level within Code, as the longest serving director Simon brings continuity the business, including appointments to the Board.
and extensive knowledge of the business to the Board as well as strong commercial and management experience.
Recognising the benefits that diversity can bring, the Board seeks to recruit directors from different backgrounds with a range of Lesley James: completed seven years service.
Appointment experience, perspectives, personalities, skills and knowledge.
renewed for a further year and annually thereafter as appropriate Both the Committee and the Board have a fundamental obligation to 2018. to ensure that the best candidates, selected on merit against Richard Mully: completed three years service and objective criteria, are appointed.
Subject to this, the availability re-appointed for a second, three-year term.
of suitable candidates and compliance with the requirements of the Equality Act, the Board is committed to strengthening female Bill Shannon: completed six years service.
Appointment representation at Board and senior management level.
It has not renewed for a further year and annually thereafter as appropriate however set prescriptive targets as it does not believe these are to 2019. in the best interests of either the Company or its shareholders.
Succession planning The Board currently comprises two female non-executive directors, Lesley James and Kay Chaldecott, who together represent 22% Effective succession planning is critical to the long-term success female Board membership.
Gender diversity below Board level is of the Company.
To support its activities in respect of succession set out on page 27. planning at Board level, the Committee has developed a skills matrix which sets out the balance of skills and diversity of the In support of its diversity policy, the Committee will only engage Board in its current composition and assesses the extent to executive search firms who have signed up to the Enhanced which these support the Groups strategic direction.
Voluntary Code of Conduct which supports more female appointments to FTSE 350 boards.
The matrix is intended to act as a guide as to potential recruitment needs over the medium-term through the identification of any 1 Composition of the Board competencies or skills that will be required to support strategic 4 delivery.
Desired attributes, in terms of experience, general and Independent directors sector-specific skills, and diversity, were established by the Non-independent directors Committee and used as a benchmark against which to assess Non-executive Chairman independent the current composition of the Board.
Whilst no immediate skills gaps were identified, the Committee 4 intends to undertake a skills matrix assessment annually to ensure that succession planning remains closely aligned to the strategic direction of the Group and delivers the correct balance of knowledge, skills and attributes to enable the Board and its Length of directors tenures 2 Committees to operate effectively.
3 Less than 3 years The Board recognises the importance of developing employees of 3-6 years St. Modwen, particularly in relation to succession planning for senior 7-9 years positions within the Company.
People development is reviewed by More than 9 years both the Nomination Committee and the Board to ensure that plans 2 are in place to recognise and grow internal talent.
2 Independence and re-election to the Board Following his appointment in November 2016, Mark Allan will retire 1 Directors core area of expertise and offer himself for election at the 2017 AGM.
In accordance with Property and operations the UK Corporate Governance Code all other directors will retire Finance and offer themselves for re-election to the Board.
HR Those directors who have been in post throughout the year 3 have been subject to a formal performance evaluation process 5 and both the Committee and the Board are satisfied that all directors continue to be effective in, and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles on the Board and that each makes a valuable contribution to the leadership of the Company.
The Board Executive directors appointments therefore recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions 1 to be proposed at the 2017 AGM relating to the election and Internal promotion re-election of the directors.
Further supporting information in respect External appointment of the non-executive directors can be found on page 169.
With the exception of Simon Clarke, who is not deemed to be 2 independent by virtue of his representation of the interests of the Clarke and Leavesley families, the Committee has also reviewed and confirmed the independence of each non-executive director seeking re-election at the 2017 AGM.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 73
