Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE ROLE OF THE BOARD THIS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board Leadership Your Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the REPORT EXPLAINS HOW YOUR Company by: BOARD LEADS THE COMPANYS Providing entrepreneurial leadership and direction to the Company in setting out its strategic aims, visions and values, and overseeing APPROACH TO CORPORATE delivery against these: GOVERNANCE AND EXPLAINS Monitoring financial performance and reporting and approving recommending payments of dividends: HOW THE PRINCIPLES OF THE Setting the Companys risk appetite, assessing the principal risks facing the Company and ensuring that adequate controls are in place FINANCIAL REPORTING COUNCILS to manage risk effectively: UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Ensuring that appropriate and effective succession planning arrangements and remuneration policies are in place: CODE THE CODE, AVAILABLE AT: Implementing appropriate corporate governance procedures: WWW.
CO. UK HAVE BEEN Reviewing major transactions or initiatives proposed by the Executives: and APPLIED IN PRACTICE Deciding the Companys policy on charitable and political donations.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles of Association Detailed reporting on Remuneration, the Articles, UK company law and may be prescribed by Special Resolutions of the Company.
The Articles contain, for example, specific as required by Section D of the Code, provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
They also provide that Directors have the power to allot can be found in the Directors unissued shares, up to pre-determined levels set and approved by Remuneration Report.
Our shareholders have also granted the Directors authority to make charitable donations and further details on the donations made can be found on page 62.
Your Board considers that the Company At the 2016 AGM, shareholders granted authority to the Directors for the purchase by the Company of its own shares, with such authority has complied with all of the provisions expiring at the end of the 2017 AGM, or 18 months from the date granted, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will propose the of the Code during 2016. renewal of this authority at the 2017 AGM.
During the year, the Company did not purchase any of its own shares.
Further to the powers granted above, the Board maintains a full schedule MAKE UP OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES of matters reserved to it, together with a Board Control Manual which The Board Nomination sets out the primary policy and decision-making mechanisms within the Sarah Bates Chair Sarah Bates Chair Group.
This includes terms of reference for the various Board David Bellamy CEO Iain Cornish Committees, the Companys risk policies and risk appetite statement and Andrew Croft Baroness Wheatcroft detailed job descriptions for each of the Executive Directors and David Lamb Non-executive Directors.
Ian Gascoigne Remuneration Iain Cornish SID Roger Yates Chair BOARD ORGANISATION AND GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Simon Jeffreys Simon Jeffreys The Roles of the Chair and Chief Executive Baroness Wheatcroft Baroness Wheatcroft Sarah Bates was appointed as Chair of the Board on 1 January 2014.
The job Roger Yates descriptions of the Chair and Chief Executive, David Bellamy, and the All of the Directors were in office division of responsibilities between them are clearly defined and agreed by Audit throughout the financial year and the Board.
As Chair, Sarah takes responsibility for the leadership of your Simon Jeffreys Chair up to the date of the report and Board, ensuring its continued effectiveness, and promoting effective Iain Cornish biographical details, including communication between the Executive and Non-executive Directors, as Roger Yates their membership of Board well as with shareholders generally.
As Chief Executive, Davids primary Committees, are set out on pages responsibility is to manage the Company via the executive management Risk 68 and 69. team and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
Iain Cornish Chair Simon Jeffreys Baroness Wheatcroft Roger Yates 72 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: The Senior Independent Director Iain Cornish was appointed Senior Independent Director SID in January 2014 and his job description has been agreed by the Board.
The SID acts as a sounding board and confidant for the Chair and the Non-executive Directors NEDs.
He also ensures he is available to meet with shareholders and raises any shareholder concerns with the Board that might not be resolved through normal channels.
Committees There are four wholly non-executive Committees of the Board: Audit: Nomination: Remuneration: and Risk.
The members of each of these Committees are all independent Non-executive Directors, with the exception of Sarah Bates, who chairs the Nomination Committee.
The membership and terms of reference of each of these Board Committees are reviewed annually and are available on the corporate website www.
co. uk, or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Executive Board comprises the Executive Directors of the Board and other members of senior management.
It is via the Executive Board that operational matters are delegated to management.
The Executive Board is responsible for communicating and implementing the Groups business plan objectives, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place in order to achieve those objectives, and managing the day-to-day operational activities of the Group.
The terms of reference for the Executive Board are also regularly reviewed and are included in the Board Control Manual.
In addition, there is a Disclosure Committee of Executive Directors, responsible for identifying and determining matters to be disclosed to the market.
There are also a number of Committees below the main Executive Board assisting it in executing its responsibilities.
They each have Terms of Reference which set out clearly their delegated authorities and a right of escalation of matters outside that remit to the Executive Board.
A table showing the current supporting governance structure is set out below.
St. Jamess Place plc Shareholders Matters reserved for Shareholder resolution St. Jamess Place plc Board Chair: Sarah Bates Matters reserved to Board Remuneration Audit Committee Risk Committee Executive Board Nomination Committee Disclosure Committee Committee TOR NEDs TOR NEDs TOR Execs TOR NEDs TOR NEDs TOR NEDs Chair: Simon Je reys Chair: Iain Cornish Chair: David Bellamy Chair: Sarah Bates Chair: Andrew Croft Chair: Roger Yates Finance Group Risk Distribution Cirencester Investment Rowan ExCo ExCo ExCo Operations ExCo Steering Group Dartington Chair: Andrew Croft Chair: Craig Gentle Chair: Ian Gascoigne Chair: Andrew Croft Chair: David Lamb Chair: Graham Coxell BOARD COMPOSITION Board Size and Composition The Board currently comprises four Executive Directors, four independent Non-executive Directors and the Chair who was independent on appointment.
There were no changes to the Board during 2016.
Appointment, replacement and re-election of Directors The Articles permit Directors to appoint additional Directors and to fill casual vacancies and any Directors appointed must stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
All other Directors will stand for re-election at each AGM.
Directors can be removed from office by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or in certain other circumstances as set out in the Articles.
Before a Director is proposed for re-election by shareholders, the Chair considers whether his or her performance continues to be effective and whether they demonstrate commitment to the role.
After careful consideration, the Chair is pleased to support the re-election of all Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Each Director brings significant skill sets to the Board as a result of their varied careers and we believe that this diversity is essential to contributing to the appropriate mix of skills and experience needed by the Board and its Committees in order to protect the interests of the Companys shareholders.
The Board therefore recommends to its shareholders that all the Directors retiring at the forthcoming AGM be re-elected.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 73 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Since her appointment in January 2014, the Chair has devoted a Independence significant proportion of her time to the role.
In conjunction with the When determining whether a Non-executive Director is independent, SID, she regularly assesses her various commitments and continues to your Board considers each individual against the criteria set out in the Code manage her portfolio of other activities to ensure that she has sufficient and also considers how they conduct themselves in Board meetings, time to meet the requirements of the position.
She currently holds two including how they exercise judgement and independent thinking.
Taking other non-executive roles and two chairship roles in other publicly listed these factors into account, the Board believes that all the Non-executive companies: however, as announced, she will be stepping down as a Directors continue to demonstrate their independence.
director and chair of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc and as chair of Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc before the end of July 2017.
As reported last year, the Board is satisfied that Simon Jeffreys role as All four of these directorships are with investment trusts which generally Chair of Aon UK Ltd has no bearing on his independence or that of New require less time commitment than an operational company and which Bridge Street advisers to the Remuneration Committee both of which provide useful and valuable investment insight to Board discussions.
She are part of the Aon group of companies.
When considering their has a full attendance record at the Companys Board meetings in 2016 relationships to the Aon Group, the Board took into account the fact that and has also attended 21 Board Committee meetings in addition to Aon UK Ltd and New Bridge Street operate in different divisions of a spending a substantial amount of time engaging with the business outside large group and their reporting and ownership lines to the Aon Group formal Board and Committee meetings.
The Board is satisfied that she board are entirely segregated.
commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
Conflicts of Interest Succession Planning and Diversity The Board has in place procedures for the management of conflicts of The Board has a responsibility to ensure that appropriate succession plans interest.
In the event a Director were to become aware that they have an are in place, both for the Board, the Executive Board and senior actual or potential conflict of interest, they must disclose this to the management.
Details of progress made in the year can be found in the Board immediately.
The Board will then consider the potential conflict Report of the Nomination Committee.
of interest based on its particular facts, and decide whether to authorise the existence of the potential conflict and or impose conditions on such Directors and Officers Indemnity and Insurance authority if it believes this to be in the best interests of the Company.
The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and officers Internal controls also exist whereby regular checks are conducted to against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as Directors or officers ensure that the Directors have disclosed material interests appropriately.
of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company has granted indemnities to all of its Directors and Directors of subsidiary companies Except as stated in the Directors Remuneration Report, no Director on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying has, or has had during the year under review, any material interest in any third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of section 234 of the contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in-force during the course of the financial year ended 31 December 2016, and remain in-force at the date Duration of Appointments of this Report.
The Chair and Non-executive Directors are appointed for a specified term and the Executive Directors have service contracts copies of the BOARD TRAINING terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for Induction inspection at the registered office address.
All Directors are subject to An appropriate induction programme is designed to enable all new annual re-election by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
Directors to meet senior management, understand the business and future strategy, visit various office locations and speak directly to Executive Directors Service Agreements Partners and staff around the country, as well as being introduced to The Executive Directors all have service contracts with the Company other key stakeholders.
that provide for termination on twelve months notice from either the Company or the Director except in certain exceptional recruitment Continuing Professional Development situations where a longer notice period from the Company may be set, The Chair and Company Secretary also ensure the continuing professional provided it reduces to a maximum of twelve months with a specified development for all your Directors, based on their individual requirements, time limit.
Service contracts do not contain a fixed end date.
Executive and a list of training carried out during the year is maintained by the Directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the Company Secretary.
Such training includes topical issues, visits to head Companys 2017 AGM.
The Company does not have agreements with office and other locations to meet with staff and members of the Partnership any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of and attending seminars or other events taking place throughout the year.
In office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in addition to this, ad hoc training is set up in the year to deal with individual the Companys share schemes may, in certain circumstances, cause share requests, external advisers are invited to deliver presentations and the awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
Non-executive Directors are able to attend seminars or conferences which they consider will assist them in carrying out their duties.
Non-executive Time Commitments Directors are briefed on the views of major shareholders at Board meetings Non-executive Directors are expected to commit at least 15 25 days and are provided with the opportunity to meet with shareholders, as per annum and in practice may commit considerably more time than appropriate.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-executive Directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company and further details of how the Nomination Committee assesses their contribution is set out on page 92.
74 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: BOARD FUNCTIONING RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Chair is responsible for setting the Board agenda together with the The Company maintains close relationships with institutional Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Each year, the Chair and shareholders through direct dialogue and frequent meetings, and meets CEO discuss the forward Board agenda for the year and identify regularly with the Groups brokers who facilitate meetings with investors potential topics for strategy sessions and Board discussions.
For each and their representatives.
Board meeting, all Board members are supplied with an agenda and pack containing specific papers on particular strategic issues, as well as During 2016, shareholder interaction included giving shareholder reports and management information on clients, Partners, investment roadshows, where the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer matters, current trading, operational issues, compliance, risk, presented the Companys full year and half year results to investors, accounting and financial matters.
The Chairs of the various Board attending investor conferences, and holding Capital Markets days for Committees report on the activity of their Committees at Board investors and analysts addressing a wide range of strategic and meetings and copies of Committee meeting minutes are included where operational topics, investor meetings and conference calls.
appropriate in the Board packs.
The Chief Financial Officer provides feedback to the Board on any To ensure that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters of material topics raised in these meetings and Board members also receive a material or more discursive nature, Board dinners are usually held copies of the latest analysts and brokers reports on the Company, and prior to most scheduled Board meetings which allow the Directors will attend shareholder and or analyst meetings from time to time.
The greater time to discuss key topics with additional internal and Chair has also met with shareholders from time to time.
The Chair, SID and other Non-executive Directors are available for In addition to the strategic discussion at Board meetings, the Directors consultation with shareholders on request and will be available after the attend two separate Strategy Days each year.
More information on the Companys Annual General Meeting which will be held on Thursday 4 discussions held in 2016 are set out on page 76.
May 2017, further details of which are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Chair wrote to major shareholders in 2016, to Culture ensure they had contact details for her, the SID and the Chair of the The Board recognises the importance of safeguarding the Companys Remuneration Committee, and to explain the rationale for the changes culture and regularly considers how both employees and Partners to the constitution put to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
The Chair and demonstrate their commitment to the Groups culture and reviews the Non-executive Directors also attended the Capital Markets briefing held ways in which its prominence is maintained.
The manner in which in October and each year attend a number of shareholder meetings with employees and Partners can adhere to the culture is set out in a series of the Executive team.
Our Approach documents, including What it means to be a member.
The views of employees as to adherence to culture are sought in the staff BOARD MEETINGS AND FOCUS DURING 2016 survey and the views of Partners are sought at various Partner meetings Meetings throughout the year and through the Partner survey.
During the year, six scheduled Board meetings and one ad hoc Board meeting held at short notice were held.
In addition, there were two Company Secretariat additional Board Strategy meetings, three ad hoc Board Committee Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary at all meetings and 21 meetings in total of the Boards Non-executive times, as well as independent professional advice, where needed, in Committees.
order to assist them in carrying out their duties.
Attendance at both Board and Board Committee meetings is set out below.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE IN 2016 MEMBER PLC BOARD AUDIT RISK REMUNERATION NOMINATION Sarah Bates 7 7 4 4 David Bellamy 6 7 Iain Cornish 7 7 8 8 7 7 4 4 Andrew Croft 7 7 Ian Gascoigne 7 7 Simon Jeffreys 7 7 8 8 7 7 6 6 David Lamb 6 7 Baroness Wheatcroft 7 7 7 7 6 6 4 4 Roger Yates 7 7 7 8 7 7 6 6 Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that the Board members were eligible to attend.
All absences relate to ad hoc meetings held at short notice to deal with procedural matters.
In addition, the independent Non-executive Directors met without the Executive Directors but with the Chair three times during the year, and also met once without the Chair.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 75 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016 BOARD BUSINESS As noted above, the Board agenda is set by the Chair working in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, and is also coordinated with its Committees.
A high-level plan for the year is established at outset, based on key themes from the Business Plan, but with flexibility to allow for the inevitable unexpected developments.
More information about the work undertaken by the Board Committees is provided in reports following, but key activities for Board meetings in 2016 were: Area of Focus Activity Brexit Pre Brexit Prior to the referendum, considered and discussed the potential risks and impacts of a vote in favour of Brexit on our clients, our business and the wider industry.
Post Brexit Following on from a review at the Risk Committee, discussed the implications of, and the Groups position with regards to, the UKs EU Referendum, concluding that whilst the unexpected outcome might bring existing risks more sharply into focus, the plans and approach had been appropriate and continued so to be, albeit in a period of uncertainty.
Client Administration Received regular updates on the performance of the Groups back-office administration systems, discussed the results of the migration of the Unit Trust and ISA business to the Bluedoor platform and the plans for the development of the Retirement Account and the eventual migration of the pensions and bond business to the platform.
Considered the results of a deep dive on the Companys arrangements with providers of key back-office administration systems and met with representatives to discuss challenges experienced and opportunities to improve the quality of future service provision.
In conjunction with the Risk and Audit Committees, assessed and monitored risks in relation to third party outsourcing arrangements.
Investment Management Started the year with a presentation on rebalancing and a long debate about the appropriate approaches for clients, as well as a reminder of some of the practical realities of managing significant FUM.
This was followed up with a detailed session at the Risk Committee.
Then, later in the year, made use of a Board dinner to receive a presentation from members of the Investment Committee and to consider, with independent members of the Investment Committee, the evolution of the Groups Investment Management Approach and the opportunities and challenges facing the Group in the future.
New Retirement Account Received a presentation on the new retirement account proposition, which also linked in with activity in the Proposition Audit Committee which was reviewing the launch-readiness of the proposition.
Updates as to progress in relation to the launch of the Retirement Account were given at each Board meeting.
Client Proposition With the purpose of understanding the development of the proposition in the core UK market, the Board Development received presentations on potential and planned new offerings to clients, including the extending of our relationship with Metro Bank and the development of support for clients inter-generational arrangements.
Strategic Development and Following final regulatory approval the Board approved completion of the acquisition of Rowan Dartington in Planning March, securing our progression into the DFM market.
Together with both the Audit and Risk Committees, reviewed progress in Asia and considered further the opportunities and practicalities of entering the Middle East.
The Board also approved a number of other smaller business acquisitions during the year, not least Technical Connection, which enhanced the technical support available to Partners and clients.
The Board focused on particular strategic topics at two separate strategy days and, in addition to the other strategic discussions mentioned in this section, the Board also considered the current situation in the markets and with competition and reviewed the current medium term strategy.
IT Strategy In an increasingly digitised age, the Board took an opportunity to consider the Groups IT strategy and also the impact of new technologies on the Groups propositions.
The Board considered cyber-threats with a presentation building on review activity undertaken being made to the Risk Committee.
76 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Given the importance of the Partnership to the business, the Board receives updates at each meeting on progress and developments within the Partnership as a standard item on the agenda.
In addition, the Board received presentations from two Heads of Business at a Board dinner.
The Board also received regular updates on presentations focusing on other key groups of stakeholders, including: Area of Focus Activity Clients The CEOs report provides regular updates on how the business is delivering for clients.
This was given particular focus at the start of the year when, following completion of work analysing the Wealth Account survey, the Board was able to review and consider the key messages emerging and the activity planned as a result.
Later in the year, the Board received an update on our work in support of our clients, the delivery of client outcomes and areas for future focus, which preceded a discussion on client outcomes and the importance of value added to our clients.
Employees At Septembers Strategy Meeting, the Board reviewed our approach to our people and the progress in relation to our people strategy, which incorporated a specific focus on diversity.
During the year, the Board considered updates from the diversity working group established in 2015, and evaluated performance against relevant KPIs.
Also in September, the Board received the results of the latest employee survey and discussed the key themes arising from the survey.
Community During the year the Board received a report on the progress made by the Corporate Social Responsibility team and discussed the focus for 2017.
The Board also heard about the achievements of the St. Jamess Place Foundation in 2016 and was able to discuss with the Foundation management their processes for, and controls around, the assessment of, and making of charitable donations to, applicants.
During this meeting it was also proposed that the Company should, for 2017, offer capped double-matching on donations by members of our community to the Foundation, and this was th ultimately agreed as an appropriate celebration of the Companys 25 anniversary, in the interests of maintaining and supporting culture and binding the organisation together.
Shareholders The CFOs report provides a regular update on Investor Relations activity, and Board members also take up opportunities to engage with shareholders.
In addition, the Board welcomed a major institutional investor to meet with the Board and present their views and expectations of the Group and overall views on governance and corporate performance.
Later in the year the Board was able to discuss the views and outlook of investors and the market on the Group with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, advisers to the Company.
Regulators In addition to regular updates provided by the Client Risk Officer CRO, and the regular monitoring undertaken by the Risk Committee, the Board received updates on proposed changes to financial services regulations that were likely to impact upon the Group, the Partnership and its clients.
Operating in a highly regulated environment, the Board is very conscious of the regulatory responsibilities which complement the statutory requirements, and in order to ensure effective and appropriate engagement had regular contact with the Groups regulators during the year.
Members of the Board also met with the Supervisory Teams at the Companys Regulators.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 77 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Finally the Board undertakes a number of important of tasks on an annual basis, including: Area of Focus Activity Business Planning Undertook a review of the Companys five year plan At its September Strategy Day, considered in detail the Groups medium term capital strategy.
At the start of the year, approved the Companys Business Plan for 2016 and during the second half of the year started the discussion about the approach and details of the 2017 plan.
Risk Management and the ORSA In conjunction with the work of the Risk Committee, undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity and approved the Groups Risk Management Framework and Risk Appetite Statement see the Risk and Risk Management section of the Strategic Report and the report of the Risk Committee for more detail.
Building on the work of the Risk Committee, reviewed and approved the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA required under Solvency II.
Received regular reports during the year from the Chief Risk Officer as to the key risks and issues facing the Group together with an update as to how these were being mitigated.
Financial Reporting Following on from the work of the Audit Committee, reviewed the financial statements and considered they were indeed fair, balanced and understandable, and that they provided the necessary clarity required by shareholders to understand sufficiently the business.
Following recommendations from the Audit Committee, approved the Half Year and Annual Reports, approved an interim dividend and recommended a final dividend to shareholders.
The notice of Annual General Meeting was also agreed.
Following on from the work of the Audit Committee in overseeing an audit-tender process, approved a decision to recommend to shareholders the reappointment of the external auditor,  LLP.
Governance Undertook a review of the governance across the Group and through the business lines and considered areas for future enhancement.
Agreed the actions that should be taken in response to the results of the previous years Board evaluation and receiving and discussing updates on progress at each Board meeting.
Worked to ensure, via its various reporting forums, that the Group complied with all of its obligations and responsibilities under UK company law as well as the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Undertook an annual review and revision of the matters reserved to the Board and the terms of reference of Board Committees.
Undertook an annual review of key Group policies and, where appropriate, approved revisions.
Board Effectiveness Led by the Chair, undertook an internal Board effectiveness review of the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors.
78 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Some of the key strategic topics which should be included on the Training Board Agenda for 2017 were agreed as were the forms of presentation During the year all the Directors identified and undertook relevant which would encourage the best discussions and mechanisms for training based on their individual requirements.
They also attended setting agendas to focus time appropriately: specific training sessions covering cyber security, regulatory updates, Having further development sessions for NEDs prior to strategic enterprise resource planning and the support provided by key service discussions to enable them to be brought fully up to speed on specific providers.
In addition, during 2016, the Board Committees and topics particularly complex matters before these discussions: and individual Directors identified a wide range of topics upon which they Further reviewing and focussing the NED training plan for the year.
particularly wished to receive further training and development.
As a result, individual and group sessions were held with third party advisers, Individual Director evaluation discussions focused on the contribution Partners and employees and Directors attended externally facilitated made by the Director over the year and objectives to be set for 2017.
In events that were relevant to their own circumstances.
addition, each Director was given the opportunity to raise any further matters individually with the Chair.
Training and development needs for 2016 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW 2017 were also discussed.
The output from these reviews will be taken The Board undertakes a review of its effectiveness each year, organised into account in drawing up the Board effectiveness plan for 2017.
At least once every three years this is facilitated by an Senior Independent Director led the Non-executive Directors in the external party and, for 2015, it was conducted by Sean OHare from evaluation of the Chair.
By order of the Board The Board is pleased to report that good progress has been made in relation to the four main areas on which we agreed to focus, namely: Enhancing Board engagement - additional informal meetings Elizabeth Kelly involving Board members have been held, Non-executive Directors are regularly updated on SJP communications events and there has Company Secretary been increased engagement at shareholder meetings.
The quality of, 27 February 2017 and focus on, in depth discussions at Board meetings has continued to be enhanced: Improving meeting administration the format and volume of information presented to the Board has been streamlined.
Also the scheduling of certain Audit Committee meetings has been rearranged, attendance by management at meetings has been reviewed and the secretariat support for Board Committees and the Executive Board has broadened significantly: Engaging further in Board development Further briefing sessions have been provided for Non-executive Directors on more complex areas of the business and the induction process for Non-executive Directors has been reviewed: and Building on existing long-term succession planning This has continued to be a key area of focus and there has been greater visibility to the Board of succession plans below the Board and the Executive Board.
In 2016, an internal review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees was led by the Chair with the support of the Company Secretary.
Self-assessment questionnaires covering the performance of the Board, the Committees and each individual Director, were sent to the Directors.
This was then followed by an open and full discussion by the Board at the Board dinner in December 2016, reviewing what had worked well during 2016, what had not worked so well and some areas of focus for 2017.
The Chair subsequently held individual meetings with each Director and the key themes from these meetings, together with the results of the questionnaire and the output from the Board dinner, were then summarised and circulated by the Chair to the whole Board prior to the Board meeting in February 2017.
The Board agreed to focus on the following areas: Setting out some clearer aspirations as to the appropriate amount of time to be spent by the Board on supervisory matters and in depth and major topics, with the consensus that more time should be devoted to in-depth discussions of both internal and external matters.
Where appropriate, these conversations should be facilitated presented by external or internal experts: Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 79
