The Board Bill Shannon Mark Allan Steve Burke Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Construction Director st Appointed: November 2010 as non-executive Appointed: 1 November 2016 as Chief Executive Appointed: November 2006. st director and Chairman Designate, March 2011 as Designate, 1 December 2016 as Chief Executive.
Key strengths: strong operational leadership and non-executive Chairman.
Key strengths: extensive knowledge and experience project management experience in the construction Key strengths: significant management and board of the property sector combined with strong operational sector, including brownfield reclamation.
experience across retail, leisure, financial services leadership and financial and strategic management skills.
Experience: joined St. Modwen in 1995 as and property sectors.
Experience: joined St. Modwen from The Unite Group a Contracts Surveyor after a number of years Experience: a 30-year career at Whitbread plc plc where he had been Chief Executive since 2006. construction experience in senior roles with national which culminated in his appointment as a main board He moved to Unite in 1999 from KPMG and held contracting companies including Balfour Beatty and director for 10 years until his retirement in 2004.
Former a number of financial and commercial roles in the Clarke Construction.
Appointed Construction Director Chairman of AEGON UK plc, Gaucho Grill Holdings Ltd business, including Chief Financial Officer from in 1998 and joined the Board as a director in 2006. and Pizza Hut UK Ltd, and former non-executive 2003 to 2006.
A qualified Chartered Accountant External appointments: none.
director of The Rank Group plc, Barratt Developments and a member of the Royal Institution of plc and Matalan plc.
A qualified Chartered Accountant Chartered Surveyors.
External appointments: Trustee director on the External appointments: Deputy Chairman and Senior non-executive board of Anchor Trust.
Independent Director of LSL Property Services plc, non-executive director of Johnson Service Group plc and Council Member of the University of Southampton.
Rob Hudson Richard Mully Ian Bull Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive director Appointed: September 2015.
Appointed: September 2013 as non-executive director, Appointed: September 2014.
December 2013 as Senior Independent Director.
Key strengths: strong financial management, Key strengths: strong financial management and commercial and operational experience in financial Key strengths: extensive experience in investment operational experience in major commercial businesses services, information services and commercial property banking, fund management, capital markets and across a range of sectors.
real estate private equity investing with considerable Experience: Chief Financial Officer of Parkdean Resorts board experience.
Experience: over 20 years experience in finance, UK Ltd since March 2016.
Previously Chief Financial most recently as Group Financial Controller at British Experience: Partner and Managing Director at Bankers Officer and main board director at Ladbrokes plc 2011 Land plc from 2011.
Joined  Trust Company from 1992 to 1998 and Managing to 2016 and Group Finance Director of Greene King plc on graduating then moved to Experian plc in 2000 Director and Head of European Merchant Banking from 2006 to 2011.
Over 25 years financial experience with where he held a number of senior financial roles, 1998 to 2000.
Co-Founder and Managing Partner of companies such as Whitbread plc, Buena Vista Home including Global Finance Director of its Decision Soros Real Estate Partners LLC and its successor firm, Entertainment Walt Disney Company and BT Group.
Analytics business and UK Finance Director.
Grove International Partners LLP, a major real estate Former non-executive director of Paypoint Ltd. A Fellow A qualified Chartered Accountant.
private equity firm from 2000 to 2011.
Former Senior of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Independent Director of Hansteen Holdings plc and External appointments: none.
External appointments: non-executive director of Aberdeen Asset Management plc and Great Portland Estates plc.
Vice Chairman of Alstria Office REIT-AG.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 54 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Board diversity 7 Male Female 2 Length of 2 Kay Chaldecott Simon Clarke, DL directors tenures 3 Independent non-executive director Non-executive director Less than Appointed: October 2012.
3 years Key strengths: significant knowledge of the retail Key strengths: strong commercial and management 3-6 years property sector, including the retail development experience in both farming and property and extensive 7-9 years process, retail mix and leasing and shopping knowledge of the Companys history.
More than Experience: the son of Sir Stanley Clarke, the founder 9 years 2 Experience: joined Capital Shopping Centres Group and former Chairman of St. Modwen, he represents plc now Intu Properties plc on graduating and held the interests of the Clarke and Leavesley families, the a number of senior management positions, including Companys largest shareholders, on the Board.
Former Directors core 1 Managing Director, during a career spanning 27 years.
Deputy Chairman of Northern Racing plc and director Also served as a main board director from 2005 until and Vice-Chairman of The Racecourse Association Ltd. area of expertise leaving the group in 2011.
Former non-executive An Honorary Doctor of Staffordshire University.
director of Boyer Planning Ltd. A member of the Property and External appointments: Chairman of Dunstall Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Trustee of Racing Welfare and External appointments: non-executive director of Chairman of Racing Homes.
Member of Staffordshire Finance 3 NewRiver REIT plc and Advisory Board member of Universitys Development Board.
Deputy Lieutenant HR 5 Next Leadership.
Composition of the Board Non-executive Chairman Non-independent directors Independent directors Committee membership Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Denotes Committee Chairman Changes to the Board Bill Oliver retired from the Board as th Chief Executive on 30 November 2016.
Lesley James, CBE Tanya Stote Mark Allan joined the Board as Chief Executive Independent non-executive director Company Secretary st Designate on 1 November 2016 and became st Chief Executive on 1 December 2016.
Key strengths: extensive executive remuneration and Experience: over 15 years of governance and human resources experience and considerable board compliance experience in FTSE listed companies, experience across public, private, voluntary and including Misys plc, Taylor Woodrow plc now Taylor education sectors.
Wimpey plc and Travis Perkins plc.
Joined St. Modwen from GKN plc where she was Deputy Company Experience: HR Director for Tesco plc from 1985 to Secretary and Head of Secretarial Department.
1999 and a main board director from 1994.
Former A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
non-executive director for various companies including Alpha Airports Group plc, Anchor Trust, Care UK plc, Key responsibilities: include Board and Board Inspicio plc, Liberty International plc and the West Committee support, corporate governance, statutory Bromwich Building Society.
Former trustee of the charity and regulatory compliance, insurance, HR and I CAN.
Awarded a CBE in 2003 for services to the DTI pensions.
Partnership at Work Assessment Panel.
A Companion of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 55
