Governance Leadership The Board Matters reserved to the Board The Board provides leadership of the Company and direction To help retain control of key decisions, the Board has put for management.
It is collectively responsible and accountable in place a formal schedule of reserved matters that require to shareholders for St. Modwens long-term success.
The principal reserved matters include: the strategy, oversees implementation and reviews performance, ensuring that only acceptable risks are taken and the appropriate strategy: people and resources are in place to deliver long-term value to new business or geographical areas: shareholders and benefits to the wider community.
authorisation of transactions in excess of 10m and To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure those which are otherwise significant: independent oversight of matters such as remuneration, internal control and risk management, the Board delegates certain risk management and internal control: responsibilities to its three principal Committees.
Membership dividend policy: of these Committees comprises primarily the independent non-executive directors and, in some cases, the Chairman.
documents to shareholders and the annual and half year The Chairmen of each Board Committee report to the Board report and financial statements: on matters discussed at Committee meetings.
matters relating to share capital, such as share issues or buybacks: and the appointment removal of directors and the Company Secretary.
The Board Develops strategy and leads St. Modwen to achieve long-term success Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Oversees financial and Oversees Board and Determines the narrative reporting, senior management remuneration property portfolio succession, leads the arrangements for the valuations, internal control, process for Board executive directors, risk management appointments and the Chairman and the systems, and internal and monitors membership Company Secretary external audit processes of Board Committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Directors remuneration report report report See pages 64 to 70 See pages 71 to 73 See pages 74 to 98 Supported by: Executive Capital Projects Property Safety, Health CSR Steering directors Committee Board and Environment Group Steering Group Co-ordinates the Groups Implement strategic Established Reviews performance Oversees Group approach to, and decisions approved by to review significant and considers strategy, procedure and enhances the reporting the Board and monitor projects, either in terms Group-wide operational performance in relation of, its corporate social operational performance of capital investment issues and initiatives to safety, health and responsibility activities and or risk environmental matters St. Modwen Properties PLC 58 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information How the responsibilities of the Board are divided The Board comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Their responsibilities are summarised in the table below and their biographical details can be found on pages 54 and 55.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, who is accountable for the leadership of the Board, and the Chief Executive, who manages and leads the business.
Chairman Bill Shannons role is to lead the Board and ensure that it operates effectively.
His responsibilities include: setting appropriate agendas for Board meetings and ensuring that all matters are given due consideration: maintaining a culture of openness, debate and constructive challenge in the boardroom: ensuring effective dialogue takes place between St. Modwen and its shareholders: providing a tailored induction programme for newly appointed directors and agreeing any training and development needs with other members of the Board: and ensuring the Boards effectiveness.
Chief Executive Mark Allan is responsible for the leadership of the business and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
His responsibilities include: day-to-day management of the business: recommending proposals for St. Modwens strategic development and implementing the strategy agreed by the Board: leading the executive management team: and ensuring the efficient use of resources.
Group Finance Director Rob Hudson is responsible for devising and implementing the Groups financial strategy and policies, as well as financial reporting and internal controls.
He also oversees investor relations, internal audit and IT.
Group Construction Director Steve Burke is responsible for procurement and programme delivery and oversees the Groups major projects.
He also chairs the Companys Steering Groups for CSR and safety, health and the environment.
Senior Independent Director Richard Mullys role involves: acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: serving as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary: and providing an additional communication channel for shareholders.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors work with and challenge the executive directors in the development of St. Modwens strategy.
They offer an independent, external perspective on the business and bring wide and varied commercial experience to both the Board and its Committees.
With the exception of Simon Clarke, all non-executive directors are considered to be independent.
Company Secretary Tanya Stote: supports the Chairman and Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties: is available to all directors for advice and support: keeps the Board regularly updated on governance matters: and attends, and maintains a record of the matters discussed and approved at, Board and Committee meetings.
She also oversees the Groups HR and Insurance functions and supports the trustee of the Groups pension scheme.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 59 Governance Leadership continued Board meetings Matters considered at each Board meeting The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual Strategic matters programme of Board and Committee meetings which are supplemented by visits to sites within the Companys property Acquisition and development opportunities th portfolio.
In the year ended 30 November 2016 the Board met Operational updates formally on eight occasions: individual director attendance is set out in the table below.
Trading results and forecasts In addition, the Capital Projects Committee met on a number of Management accounts, key performance indicators occasions during the year to consider a range of projects deemed and financial commentary significant either in terms of capital investment and or risk.
Whilst Health and safety not a formal committee of the Board, the activities of the Capital Projects Committee whose membership is drawn from the Board Board Committee activities supported the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, Investor relations and shareholder feedback particularly in light of Chief Executive succession activity during the year.
Legal, company secretarial and regulatory matters Minutes of previous meetings Implementation of actions from previous meetings Rolling programme of agenda items Key Board activity in 2016 Approved the 2015 Toured the surplus land Reviewed the impact of Reviewed and approved preliminary results, including sites at New Covent Garden the EU Referendum on the the 2017 budget the Groups property portfolio Market in Nine Elms, London business, its strategy and Considered updates on valuation and final dividend its markets Approved the appointment of Group PR & Communications recommendation Mark Allan as Chief Executive Formalised the strategy to Considered the annual and KPMG as external auditor market the 10 acre Nine Elms renewal of insurance Square site arrangements for the Group Jan Mar Apr Jun Jul Sep Nov early Nov late Approved the 2016 half year results Discussed actions arising Joint broker presentation on from the external Board Through the Remuneration St. Modwen in the context of evaluation Committee, considered the wider real estate market proposed changes to the Annual strategy review Considered Group Companys remuneration covering strategic context, Through the Remuneration financing strategy policy for directors prior to forecast scenarios, Committee, considered Considered AGM-related consulting with major residential and commercial investor feedback on matters shareholders development, and financing.
remuneration policy proposals Attendance at Board meetings Meetings attended in year out of maximum % attended Director Role Director since possible in year 1 Mark Allan Chief Executive Nov 2016 2 2 100% Ian Bull Non-executive director Sep 2014 8 8 100% Steve Burke Group Construction Director Nov 2006 8 8 100% Kay Chaldecott Non-executive director Oct 2012 8 8 100% Simon Clarke Non-executive director Oct 2004 8 8 100% Rob Hudson Group Finance Director Sep 2015 8 8 100% 2 Lesley James Non-executive director Oct 2009 7 8 87.5% Richard Mully Senior Independent Director Sep 2013 8 8 100% 3 Bill Oliver Chief Executive Jan 2000 8 8 100% Bill Shannon Chairman Nov 2010 8 8 100% st st 1 Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Designate on 1 November 2016 and became Chief Executive on 1 December 2016.
2 Unable to attend the Board Meeting in late November 2016 due to illness.
th 3 Retired from the Board on 30 November 2016.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 60 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Effectiveness The Board considers that all other non-executive directors are Induction of a new director independent and is not aware of any relationship or circumstance The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is responsible likely to affect the judgement of any director.
for the induction of all new directors.
At the 2017 AGM, and in accordance with the Companys Articles On joining the Board, a director receives a comprehensive induction of Association, Mark Allan will retire and offer himself for election.
pack which includes background information on the Company, All other directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election in material on matters relating to the activities of the Board and its accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Committees and governance-related information including the The explanatory notes set out in the notice of meeting state the duties and responsibilities of directors.
reasons why the Board believes that the directors proposed for Meetings are arranged with the executive directors for briefings on re-election at the AGM should be re-appointed.
The Board has strategy and performance, as well as with the external auditor and based, in part, its recommendation for re-election on its review valuers.
Visits to key sites within the Companys property portfolio of the results from the Board evaluation process and the are scheduled and external training, particularly on matters relating Chairmans review of individual evaluations.
It has concluded to membership of Board Committees, is arranged as appropriate.
that the performance of each director continues to be effective, Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet newly that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective appointed directors should they express a desire to do so.
roles, and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
Director development Notice of annual general meeting See pages 166 to 177 The Company is committed to the continuing development of directors in order that they may build on their expertise and External appointments develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business and the markets in which St. Modwen operates.
On appointment directors are advised of, and requested to make, the necessary time commitment required to discharge their Training and development needs are discussed with each director responsibilities effectively.
This time commitment is also outlined by the Chairman as part of the annual individual performance in the letters of appointment issued to non-executive directors.
evaluation process and kept under review.
Development activities include visits to sites within the Companys property portfolio, The Chairman reviews annually the time each director has both as a Board and individually, regular presentations to the Board dedicated to St. Modwen as part of their individual performance by regional directors and senior management on key issues and evaluations and is satisfied that their other duties and time projects, and meetings with the external valuers to review their commitments do not conflict with those as directors of the property valuation reports.
Similarly, the Board is content that the Chairmans external appointments do not impact on his ability to allocate The attendance by members of Board Committees on courses sufficient time to discharge his responsibilities to St. Modwen.
relevant to aspects of their respective Committee specialisms is also encouraged.
Conflicts of interest Director independence and re-election to The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, the Board manage any conflicts of interest affecting directors.
This enables the Board to consider and, if thought appropriate, to authorise The Board considers Bill Shannon to have been independent on a directors actual or potential conflict of interest, taking into his appointment as Chairman in 2011 and that he remains so.
consideration what is in the best interests of the Company and Simon Clarke, a non-executive director, represents the interests whether the directors ability to act in accordance with his or of the Clarke and Leavesley families on the Board.
Together the her wider duties is affected.
families hold 14.5% of the Companys issued share capital and are St. Modwens largest shareholder.
Consequently, the Board has determined that Simon Clarke is not independent for the purposes of the Code.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 61 Governance Effectiveness continued Performance evaluation 2015-16 evaluation process The annual Board performance evaluation review provides an opportunity for the directors to reflect on their collective and individual effectiveness and consider any changes that could Review of governance framework improve the operation of the Board and its Committees.
A suite of Board and Committee information was sent to BRR to provide information on the governance framework The most recent evaluation review commenced in late 2015 within which the Board operates.
following the appointment of Rob Hudson as Group Finance Director in order that his initial views on the operation of the Board could be considered.
In accordance with the Code, the assessment was facilitated by Dr. Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Ltd BRR, One-to-one interviews who received a comprehensive brief from the Chairman.
Neither Tracy nor BRR has any other connection with the Company and Individual in-depth interviews were conducted by BRR with each director and the Company Secretary.
is considered by the Board to be independent.
The evaluation covered areas such as the operation of the Board, its culture and composition, its focus, and risk and control.
Progress against some of the key findings identified by the review can be found in the table below.
Board meeting observation Board Committee performance was also evaluated in late 2015 BRR attended the January 2016 Board meeting to observe the conduct and operation of the Board.
by means of a questionnaire completed by relevant Committee Copies of meeting papers were circulated to BRR members and meeting attendees.
The outturn of these evaluations in advance for briefing purposes.
was considered as part of the Board performance review meeting in March 2016.
In general, all were considered well-run, challenging, structured, trusted and effective.
Specific findings of these Reporting evaluations can be found in the relevant Committee reports.
BRR prepared a discussion document which analysed In light of the recent appointment of Mark Allan, the next evaluation current strengths and set out potential areas for of the performance of the Board and its Committees will be improvement and recommendations.
undertaken in the second half of 2017.
The individual performance of the directors was evaluated through one-to-one discussions with the Chairman.
Richard Mully, as Senior Discussion and evaluation Independent Director, led the review by the non-executive directors of the Chairmans performance, which took into account the views Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chairman and of the executive directors.
No actions were considered necessary subsequently considered by all directors at a meeting with BRR in March 2016. as a result of these evaluations and the Board is of the view that the performance of all directors continues to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles, and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the Implementation overall operation of the Board.
An action plan to implement agreed recommendations was prepared and progress monitored by the Board.
2015 16 Board evaluation Key findings The Board to play a key role in The Board, through the The Board, with the assistance supporting the CEO transition Nomination Committee, to of the Audit Committee, to process to facilitate on-boarding monitor its future composition define and articulate its risk and stakeholder engagement to ensure that it continues to appetite and ensure the whilst maintaining business have an appropriate balance of development and execution performance and strategic knowledge and skills, combined of strategy within defined risk delivery.
with the right culture and appetite tolerances.
Progress made in the year A comprehensive, tailored A skills matrix has been A review of the risk appetite induction programme was developed and Board framework has been developed involving sessions composition assessed against commenced and a suite of key with all Board and Property it to ensure that succession risk indicators considered: both Board members, meetings planning remains closely will be integrated into the risk with joint venture partners aligned to the strategic direction management framework in 2017. and institutional shareholders, of the Group.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 62 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Relations with shareholders Dialogue with investors Compliance statement The Board has a comprehensive investor relations programme This corporate governance report, together with the Audit which aims to provide existing and potential investors with a means Committee report, the Nomination Committee report, the of developing their understanding of St. Modwen.
The programme Directors remuneration report and the sections of this Annual is split between institutional shareholders who, in aggregate, hold Report entitled Risk management and Principal risks and over 80% of the issued share capital in the Company, private uncertainties, provide a description of how the main principles shareholders and debt investors.
Feedback from the programme of of the Code have been applied by St. Modwen in 2015 16. events is provided to the Board to ensure that directors develop an The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and understanding of the views of the Companys major investors.
is available on its website at www.
As part of the programme, presentations on the half year and It is the Boards view that, throughout the financial year ended annual results are given by the Chief Executive and Group Finance th 30 November 2016, the Company complied with the relevant Director in face to face meetings and on conference calls with provisions set out in the Code with the exception of provision institutional investors, analysts and the media.
1.2, which requires that at least half the Board, excluding presentations, together with trading updates, are published on the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive the Companys website at www.
For the month of November 2016 only following Mark principal shareholders were also held and the Company had regular st Allan joining the Board on 1 November 2016 and prior to the dialogue with its key relationship banks.
The Chairman is available th retirement of Bill Oliver on 30 November 2016, the Board to meet with institutional shareholders and investor representatives comprised four executive directors and six non-executive to discuss matters relating to strategy and governance.
Excluding the Chairman, the number of independent shareholders are encouraged to give feedback and communicate and non-independent directors in the month was four and five with the Board through the Company Secretary.
The Board was of the view that non-compliance with this provision of the Code during the month was sufficiently Annual general meeting justified by the need to ensure a suitable period for a handover The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to vote on of responsibilities between Bill Oliver and Mark Allan.
the resolutions proposed and to question the Board and the With the exception of disclosures required by Rule 7.2.
6 Chairmen of the Board Committees on matters put to the meeting.
which are set out in the Directors report, this corporate Resolutions for consideration at the 2017 AGM will be voted on by governance report contains the information required by Rule way of a poll rather than by a show of hands as the Board believes 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial that this is a more transparent method of voting as it allows the Conduct Authority.
votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast by proxy.
The results of the poll vote will be published on the The directors are responsible for preparing this Annual report.
The statement of directors responsibilities on page 103 is made at the conclusion of a robust and effective process undertaken Notice of annual general meeting by the Company for the preparation and review of the Annual See pages 166 to 177 Report.
The directors believe that these well-established arrangements, details of which are set out on pages 67 and 68, enable them to ensure that the information presented in this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 63
