Our resources and relationships Building long lasting partnerships We invest much needed time, financial Employees CSR objectives achieved, capital and expertise into our sites.
exceeded or on target The experience, expertise, commitment Across the entire lifecycle of our and teamwork of our employees is critical projects we continue to ensure that to the continued success and growth of the environmental, social and community business.
In 2016 our recruitment activities considerations are integrated within our were focused on increasing resource to day-to-day practices.
In order to do this 10 10 support St. Modwen Homes as well as successfully we look to our employees, seeking staff to strengthen existing teams our partners and our supply chain to and provide for individual development enable us to achieve our short and Days of training and succession planning.
Our relationship with provided to staff the year with 393 employees 2015: 345, each is therefore pivotal to the success a testament to our ability to continue to of not only our Corporate Social attract, develop and retain individuals who Responsibility CSR activities but our uphold our values and strive for excellence.
business as a whole and consequently 227 we continue to nurture and respect each.
Training and development Our 10 CSR objectives We are committed to the training and continued professional development of We continue to use the 10 CSR objectives, all our employees.
During the year, we set at the beginning of the financial year, have supported employees from all areas to help focus our CSR capabilities and of the business on a total of 227 training to further the positive work being carried days, including employment law: driving out across our portfolio.
We are pleased awareness: and numerous health and to report that this year these objectives safety training courses.
have either been achieved or exceeded, with good progress made against the In the period we have supported directly longer-term objectives.
or on site via our contractors 58 graduates trainees across the business and for the In addition, we continue to support individual second consecutive year have increased project-led initiatives which have a positive our graduates trainees CSR objective.
impact on the local community, environment and economy in which we build.
All new permanent employees attend a formal induction at the beginning of their employment.
This covers all immediate Working with charities and commercially important business We continue to work with a variety of matters and provides an opportunity charities from across the UK which have for new staff to meet and spend time with a synergy with our developments.
These key employees from across the business.
charities are either located within the vicinity of our sites or have similar objectives to us Employee diversity in terms of ensuring sustainable business: creating better environments: or supporting We have a duty of care to look after the the communities in which we build.
We are committed to providing an inclusive working environment where everyone feels valued and respected.
CSR Steering Group The diverse range of talent, skills and The CSR Steering Group, which is chaired experience across the business is reflected by Steve Burke, Group Construction in the new communities that we build and Director, meets once a quarter to review ensures our continued success.
progress against our CSR objectives The Company adheres to a clear equality and to ensure the Company maintains a policy which sets out individuals rights and best practice approach to CSR activities obligations as defined by the Equality Act across its operations.
This policy covers the responsibilities represents each of the St. Modwen and approach we have to our employees business disciplines and continues and our duty to avoid discrimination in all to evolve as the business grows.
aspects of recruitment and employment.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 26 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Tree planting surpassing expectations acrossthe UK The charts below set out the number of men and women employed fulland th part-time as at 30 November 2016, across our business and split between the Board, our senior management and our employees.
Board diversity 2 Male 78% Female 22% Total 9 7 1 Senior management diversity Total Male 91% 11 Female 9% As part of our commitment to enhance Throughout 2016 we collected additional the communities in which we operate, acorns from the established oak trees 10 our CSR objectives have focused on across our sites, enabling us to continue the planting of trees across our UK-wide this initiative on a rolling programme.
Our target has Coed Darcy was previously the site 156 increased year on year, and in 2016 diversity of Britains first crude oil refinery, and was set at a minimum of 12,000 trees.
Male 58% having acquired it in 2008, we spent Total We exceeded this again by planting four years successfully remediating Female 42% in excess of 14,000 trees in the year.
373 the land which was heavily polluted with the oil bi-products of more than Tree planting in 70 years of industrial production.
217 SouthWales A 25 year project, the site is already In 2009 10, we collected over 1,400 a thriving new community which will acorns from the woodlands across Total eventually boast 4,000 homes, 40,000 159 our sites in South Wales and since then sq ft of retail and leisure space, three diversity have carefully cultivated the acorns into primary schools, 500,000 sq ft of new Male 60% Total saplings for planting on our development employment accommodation and now Female 40% sites across the region.
an expanse of public green open space.
393 In 2016, we planted all the surviving Creating public green oak saplings, totalling over 1,200, at 234 Coed Darcy, South Wales.
Another openspace in 2017 468 whips of native species have also Based on the success of our tree planting been planted and once established, objective, the CSR Steering Group has the reintroduced woodland will open extended the commitment to create to the public for the first time since it public green spaces, including parks was removed in the 1920s.
and wildlife areas, across a minimum of 100 acres.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 27 Our resources and relationships continued Human rights Local communities and tenants We support the United Nations Universal 83% Declaration of Human Rights and have We continue to engage and maintain an policies in place to ensure that we act in of land bank with specified ongoing relationship with local communities accordance with our principles in relation and our tenants: two-way communication use is brownfield to areas such as anti-corruption, diversity is essential to both the regeneration and the and whistleblowing.
We work with a variety of local schools, community Health and safety and interest groups and stakeholders to reach residents and engage them in activities 1, 700 In addition to our Safety, Health and and conversation to ensure we remain Environment SHE Steering Group: our sensitive to the impact of our schemes.
tenants across portfolio Group SHE Committee: independent consultants and SHE management system: Supply chain in 2016, we appointed a SHE Manager whose role it is to help St. Modwen To further our relationship with the Homes set the highest standard across local communities in which we work.
the construction industry in terms of We encourage the use of local resources, health and safety.
As part of this ongoing materials, sub-contractors and apprentices objective, we have been working on through our supply chain.
a number of projects during 2016 As an extension of the St. Modwen brand which represent our commitment it is vital that our supply chain partners to health and safety.
share our core principles with regards to We take ownership and responsibility community engagement, health and safety for the health, safety and welfare of our and delivering projects to the highest employees, contractors, subcontractors, quality, on time and within budget.
Many of customers and visitors to our sites.
This our contractors are active across a number contributes to us becoming the preferred of our development sites and this further development partner for both private and enhances our working relationship and public sector organisations.
In addition, mutual trust with each.
our meticulous approach to health, safety Our contractors adhere to site specific and and welfare directly influences the quality Group recycling and reclamation objectives of our developments.
which reduce both cost and the impact on the environment.
Our partners Our ability to form long-lasting public and private sector partnerships is key to the success of many of our regeneration projects.
We believe that the basis of a successful partnership includes working with transparency and integrity as well as understanding our partners needs, their objectives, core values and culture.
We have formed many strong relationships with the public and private sector, with whom we work closely to bring about major economic change to areas across the UK.
In turn, this has stimulated investment, growth and created better environments for businesses and communities alike.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 28 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Community engagement with the return of Longbridge Light Festival Buildings Where it is sustainably and economically viable, we seek to re-purpose existing buildings during the development process of a site.
Where this is not feasible our CSR objectives ensure that the demolition process is led foremost by environmental concerns: we aim to reclaim and recycle as much existing material as is possible.
The decisions we then make when designing new buildings, and indeed designing our sites as a whole, are important in delivering a sustainable development.
A high quality building designed to reduce energy and water use can deliver benefits to both our tenants and the environment: in turn creating high quality, sustainable and safer communities.
Land bank Over 80% of our land bank with specified use is brownfield.
With this, we bring Our approach to regeneration is to Over 6,000 people descended on the previously used buildings and land back embrace change whilst appreciating town centre for this years Light Festival, into productive use: we provide accessible the heritage of the site.
The Longbridge where 35 international and locally based developments and whilst doing so, ensure Light Festival is a great example of artists presented a dramatic series of that we utilise existing resources, protect our ability to do just that.
spectacular light and art installations, the environment and contribute to the social alongside family workshops, live music, This year, the theme the Shadow and economic regeneration of communities.
pop-up art and theatre performances.
Factory was adopted, a historical Our 6,000 acre land bank comprises an reference to the Shadow Scheme assortment of sites all at differing stages in of WWII, when the MG Rover factory the development cycle.
This gives us the was painted by local artists to resemble flexibility to remediate, plan, design, develop houses and streetscapes from the air.
and manage a number of sites at any one time.
We have the wherewithal to then dispose of these sites and acquire new schemes at the appropriate time: our portfolio is ever evolving.
Financial capital For more information By utilising our asset management activities on our CSR and across our land bank, our recurring income stream broadly covers our overheads.
charitable activities, please see our Through the sale of assets and the disposal of schemes, we have a diversified source CSR Report of cash flow which we continue to reinvest www.
co. uk into new property and generate returns for  our shareholders.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 29
