Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Report of the Nomination Committee REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE IN SUMMARY To review regularly Board and committee composition and structure: To identify, report on and recommend for Board approval suitable candidates for appointment to the Board: To appropriately consider succession planning for Directors and senior management: and To report to the Board on the work of the Committee.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS Sarah Bates Chair Iain Cornish Baroness Wheatcroft Sarah Bates Chair of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee plays a crucial role in Overseeing our approach and progress in relation to diversity ensuring that the structure and composition of the Board is another aspect of the Committees work and progress in including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity this respect is set out below.
is appropriate to continue to lead the Group and achieve its strategic objectives.
Another critical aspect of the role of the Nomination Committee is considering succession planning Sarah Bates for the Board and the Committee has devoted significant On behalf of the Nomination Committee time to this activity during the year.
27 February 2017 The Committee must also ensure that the skills and attributes necessary at those levels immediately below the Board are also constantly reviewed, in order to ensure that there is an appropriate and talented succession pipeline.
This has continued to be a key area of focus as described in this report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 91 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE continued The Committee is still of the opinion not to adopt the 25% target COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP DURING 2016 proposed by the Davies Report for female representation for the Board in The members of the Committee remained unchanged during 2016 and 2017, noting that the level of female representation on the Board is still up to and including the date of this Report.
Details of attendance at the close to satisfying the target at the present time and that the Company meetings of the Nomination Committee throughout the year can be has a female Chair.
We also note that a number of companies who have found in the Corporate Governance Report.
achieved this level, have a rather different balance between executives and non-executives on the board.
As is often observed, there are fewer COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2016 women in executive ranks than might be expected.
However, we are As set out in the Chairs Report, we have undertaken the appointment trying hard and, as part of our current recruitment processes, we have processes for our new Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, sought to discuss with potential and appointed headhunters how they which were led by the Committee.
These appointments are the result of identify candidates from a diverse pool of people.
We have also careful succession planning for these roles over the last few years in the consciously sought to avoid setting criteria which unwittingly and for no context of our overall strategy and our views of the nature of those roles purpose exclude any particular group.
It is worth noting that the general as the Group develops and the characteristics required for them.
We change in attitudes towards the number of board appointments held requested external market surveys for both roles and considered the probably reduces the experience which future candidates will have, but benefits and risks to the Group and its stakeholders of making these or perhaps increases the number of potential candidates.
The Committee has reviewed detailed analysis as to the significant other Assessing the appropriate composition and structure of the Board and its commitments of the Non-executive Directors and how much time they various Committees is an ongoing process and this has been regularly were spending on the Companys business and affairs.
The Nomination considered and discussed during the year.
Of particular importance was Committee and the Board are satisfied that the Non-executive Directors the assessment of the existing skills, knowledge, experience, diversity are able to, and do, commit sufficient time and attention to the and independence of the Board to ensure that these remained Companys business.
In addition, the Committee reviewed and approved appropriate both now and in the future, as well as considering whether an assessment of the independence of each of the Non-executive there was any requirement to draw in additional skills and experience Directors, concluding that each of the Non-executive Directors from elsewhere.
It should be noted that half of the Board excluding the demonstrated that they remained independent in character Chair is comprised of independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee has not felt it necessary to make any recommendations The terms of reference setting out the Committees role and authority, to change the structure of the Board or its Committees during the and which were reviewed in 2016, can be found on the corporate website current year although it has been giving detailed consideration to its at www.
plans for the future in order to plan for its own refreshment and succession in the medium and long-term.
These appointments are subject to regulatory approval.
The skills review mentioned above formed the basis for a continued focus this year on succession plans for the Board, Executive Board and senior management.
Excellent progress has been made in this respect and the further refinement of the responsibilities of the Executive Board, the development of internal talent and recruiting external executives, where appropriate, has ensured the continued development of a platform for future succession.
There has also been a focus by the Board on the appropriate people strategy referred to on pages 18 and 115.
Succession planning will continue to evolve during 2017.
During the year, the Committee has concentrated on diversity in a number of senses within the Group and the Partnership, receiving regular updates as to developments in this respect.
A number of measures have been identified to make further progress in ensuring appropriate female representation and this work will continue during 2017.
The Group is quite diverse in other senses, in terms of regional focuses for example, and taking into account its work with apprentices.
A suite of metrics has also been developed and reviewed to ensure that progress in relation to diversity can continue to be monitored.
These metrics include analysis of male female composition at all levels across the employee population and also in respect of promotions and part-time working and in forms of responses to the employee survey.
92 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
