Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Report of the Risk Committee REPORT OF THE RISK COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE IN SUMMARY To foster a culture of effective risk identification and management throughout the Group: To provide leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups management of risk: To review the principal risks affecting the Group and the ways in which the risks are controlled and mitigated: To provide oversight of the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment process: and To report any material areas of concern to the full Board.
RISK COMMITTEE MEMBERS Iain Cornish Chair Simon Jeffreys Baroness Wheatcroft Roger Y ates Iain Cornish Chair of the Risk Committee Fostering a culture of effective risk management is of the Receiving presentations from members of senior utmost importance to the Directors.
The Risk Committee is management about their business areas and reviewing a sub-committee of the Board, the remit of which is to assist the management of the associated risks: and the Board in developing this culture, by providing leadership, Recommending to the Board the appointment of the direction and oversight of the Groups management of risk.
In carrying out this remit, the Committees key activities in The following report sets out in more detail the 2016 included: Committees key activities in 2016.
Overseeing the implementation of the Solvency II Directive alongside the Audit Committee: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of risk Iain Cornish management in the Group and the risk On behalf of the Risk Committee management functions: 27 February 2017 Reviewing the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group as well as the risk appetite: Considering reports produced by the Groups Risk and Compliance functions, to monitor the ongoing compliance interaction with the Groups regulators: 88 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Outsourcing The Committee discussed the nature of governance COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP DURING 2016 and oversight of third party administrators, including the resilience All members of the Risk Committee have considerable financial, risk of key outsourcing partners.
The Committee also considered the and or other relevant experience and are independent Non-executive controls in place to ensure correct handling of client money, Directors.
There have been no changes to the membership of the Risk discussing changes in regulations and operational changes resulting Committee during 2016.
Details of attendance at the meetings of the from the migration of Unit Trust and ISA business to the new Risk Committee throughout the year can be found on page 75. administration platform: Client complaints The Committee discussed the nature of client Regular attendees at Committee meetings during the year included the complaints, the way in which these are handled, resolved and Chief Executive, the Managing Director, the Chief Risk Officer, the reported, and the extent of management action taken as a result of Chief Technology Officer, the Joint Chief Operating Officer Client and complaints received: the Corporate Actuary.
As Chair of the Board, Sarah Bates attended all Remuneration The Committee discussed the potential risks Risk Committee meetings during 2016. associated with Partner and employee remuneration and the ways in which these are mitigated: and COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2016 Asian subsidiaries The Committee considered the management of During 2016, the Committee has overseen further developments to the key risks within the Asian subsidiaries, the development of reporting of the key risks and has worked to ensure appropriate coverage relationships with regulators, and the priorities for the Asian business has been given to each of these risks at Committee meetings.
important element of this work has been the consideration of reports from senior executives and external consultants on specific topics, This gave the Committee the opportunity to ensure that risks are being including key corporate initiatives.
The Committee spent time addressed and to test that the culture of risk identification and discussing management of the associated risks, and provided challenge to management is embedded.
Topics considered in 2016 included: Cyber-security threats and the Groups defences The Committee One of the key areas of focus for the Committee is the Own Risk and considered the Groups information security risk appetite statement, Solvency Assessment ORSA.
The Committee set the strategy for the developments in controls relating to people, processes and performance of a single, Group-wide, ORSA and had continued technology, and future plans in this area of increasing risk: involvement in this process throughout the year.
In particular, the Brexit The Committee discussed the short-term and potential Committee discussed the underlying basis and assumptions, the nature longer-term implications of the result of the EU referendum, in and results of stress and scenario tests, the assessment of operational particular noting that the heightened level of uncertainty brings risks, key risk management policies and the content of the ORSA report existing risks more sharply into focus, but that the outcome does not and viability statement.
appear to pose any fundamental threats to the business: The Groups financial crime prevention controls The Committee Oversight of the risk management framework is key to delivery of the considered the controls in place in respect of higher risk and responsibilities of the Committee.
Further information about this politically exposed clients and received an update on training and framework can be found on pages 48 to 50.
The risk management awareness raising activities, including in respect of whistleblowing framework and associated documents are subject to annual review and, procedures and anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies: during 2016, the Committee participated in an external review of the The Groups Investment Management Approach The Committee framework.
The Committee discussed the resulting recommendations, considered developments to the fund range, giving particular which chiefly related to the documentation and presentation of risks.
consideration to current economic conditions, and the internal Consequently, the presentation of the Groups Top Risk List has been governance processes in place to manage and mitigate risks in this redeveloped, although the risks included remain largely unchanged.
In a separate discussion, the Chief Risk Officer of the risks have been mapped to the Basel framework and to the bottom-up newly acquired Discretionary Fund Management business, Rowan risk assessment process, to provide assurance that the list provides Dartington, attended a meeting to present on the risks in this part of comprehensive coverage.
This list, and the set of indicators used by the the business, and the Committee discussed progress in aligning risk Committee to regularly monitor performance against risk appetite, have management across the businesses: both been regularly reviewed by the Committee during the year and Partner recruitment and advice The Committee considered the both will be subject to further development during 2017 as part of an risks surrounding the recruitment of Partners and advisers, the ongoing cycle of improvement.
Enhancements have also been made to controls in place in respect of quality of recruits, and the the capture, reporting and use of internal loss data.
In a separate discussion, the Committee considered the controls in place to verify the suitability The Committee is supported in its oversight of the risk management of the advice given by Partners to clients, and received an update on framework by Risk Management teams at Group and local levels, and the developments in the technology provided to support the Committee spends a significant proportion of its time receiving updates documentation of advice: from the Chief Risk Officer and the Heads of the Group Risk Division, Operational developments The Committee received updates on the who have direct access to the Chair of the Risk Committee should the progression of the project underway to implement the Groups new need arise.
During late 2015 and early 2016, members of the Committee administration platform and considered the internal governance were involved in the process of recruiting a new Chief Risk Officer and structures and management of risks associated with the launch of the met with Chris Gentle during this process.
The Committee then new Retirement Account: recommended his appointment to the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 89 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: REPORT OF THE RISK COMMITTEE continued The Committee is also able to review and provide challenge on the implementation of risk mitigation in the business.
As part of this oversight, the Committee also continued to receive and review reports from a number of Executive Committees and other functions in the Group including: Reports relating to relevant topics discussed at Group Risk Executive and Finance Executive Committee meetings, where executive oversight is given to the appropriateness and observance of the Groups Risk Appetite: Reports produced by the Compliance Oversight and Business Assurance functions in respect of thematic reviews carried out into specific areas of the Groups business: Reports from the Chief Risk Officer on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems: and An annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer on the anti-money laundering, bribery and fraud activities taking place within the Group.
Since most of the activity within the Group is regulated, the Committee also considered regular updates on the Groups ongoing interactions with regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority, Financial Conduct Authority, Central Bank of Ireland, Monetary Authority of Singapore and Office of the Commissioner of Insurance in Hong Kong, and the wider regulatory interactions with firms in the financial services marketplace.
This allowed it to monitor ongoing compliance with regulation.
An internal review of the effectiveness of the Committee was also carried out and no material issues were highlighted in respect of its operation.
The terms of reference, which were revised in 2016 and which set out the Committees role and authority, can be found on the corporate website at www.
90 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
