Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Report of the Audit Committee REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE IN SUMMARY To be responsible for the accuracy and integrity of the Groups financial statements: To oversee the work of the external auditor and consider its reports: To monitor the work of the Internal Audit function and ensure its effectiveness: To monitor the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management: To review, and where appropriate refer on to the Board, any significant control weaknesses or failures: and To report to the Board on how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS Simon Jeffreys Chair Iain Cornish Simon Jeffreys Roger Y ates Chair of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the report of the Audit These regular activities keep the Committee busy, but Committee of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended each year brings its own particular nuances and 2016 was 31 December 2016. no exception.
An audit tender process is never undertaken lightly, As shareholders will be aware, the Audit Committee has and so we were pleased to have completed it numerous obligations to the Board and shareholders, successfully.
including assisting the Board in its monitoring of both the Client assets is currently a particularly hot topic in the financial reporting process, and the effectiveness of the industry, and the changes in regulation have increased Companys internal control, internal audit and risk both the focus and pressure.
This is a challenge which management systems.
appears to be getting ever more onerous.
More generally, the Committee set itself a focus on The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the ensuring good practice around systems statutory audit of the Annual Report and the consolidated implementation, particularly on ensuring controls are financial statements, and the independence of the Groups in place before go live.
This was particularly relevant statutory auditor,  LLP.
In this year when there was considerable investment in carrying out these duties, the Committee must maintain new systems and processes.
an effective relationship with the external auditors and pay due regard to any findings and conclusions resulting This report sets out how the Committee has discharged from independent inspections of their work, as well as the these, and its other duties, through 2016. results of our internal evaluation of the effectiveness of prior year audits.
Simon Jeffreys A further duty of the Committee is to provide advice to On behalf of the Audit Committee the Board that the Companys financial reports, taken as a 27 February 2017 whole, provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys financial position and results, and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys financial position and performance, business model and strategy.
80 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP DURING 2016 Committee membership is unchanged in the year and also as at the date of this report.
The Committee comprises three independent Non-executive Directors and the Board is satisfied that the Committee as a whole has the experience and qualifications necessary to successfully perform their roles, noting in particular that the Chair of the Committee is a qualified accountant and former auditor, and other members also have recent and relevant experience being members of audit committees of other companies and expertise in the financial services sector.
Details of attendance of Committee members at the meetings of the Audit Committee throughout the year can be found on page 75.
Additional invited attendees to the meetings during the course of the year included the Chair, the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the Chief Actuary and other members of the Finance, Internal Audit and Controls teams, as well as representatives from the external auditors,  LLP.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2016 Financial Reporting The Committee reviewed both the Annual and Half Year Reports and Accounts, together with the associated reports from the external auditors.
The Committee received regular updates on the preparation of the Annual Report and started discussion in September on key developments from the prior year, including material assumptions, key judgements, changes in generally accepted accounting practise GAAP', accounting policies and disclosures, and significant events and activities during the year.
The discussion included reflection on both positive developments and challenges during the year.
The topics discussed were driven both by consideration of risk of mis-statement of the financial statements, and also by assessment of the scale of risk in the business.
Given the nature of our business, there are certain subjects which are always relevant and important, particularly valuation of assets and actuarial reserving assumptions.
Other topics reflect the business experience in the year.
During 2016 the activity included: Area of Focus Activity Fraud in Revenue Recognition During the course of its regular work, the Committee reviewed the relevant policies and received regular reports from management and internal external audit on the controls.
Management Over-ride of Controls Much of the work of the Committee was directly or indirectly focused on management and controls.
This included review of systems of controls: reports on the self-assessment activity: and external review which included reviews undertaken by our co-source partner to Internal Audit.
Asset Valuation particularly During the year the Audit Committee received presentations from senior management on a number of property and derivatives topics relevant to asset valuation, including systems and controls with particular focus on property and derivatives, the process of audit of Unit Trusts, and updates on the results of the statutory unit-trust audits UT Audit split into two exercises in September and March.
The Committee also received presentations from the State Street business risk management team, outlining the processes and controls supporting the custody and valuation services they provide.
As a result the Committee was able to conclude that the processes were appropriate and would provide reliable financial information.
Actuarial Reserving Assumptions Oversight of the realistic basis assumptions was particularly extensive in the first half of 2016 due to the including persistency assumptions in additional focus engendered by the implementation of Solvency II see more on Solvency II reporting relation to EEV and Solvency II below.
reporting As part of this work, and at the request of the Audit Committee, management developed a new Assumption Setting Policy focused on making the most of the objective information available.
When it came to the changes in assumptions required for year-end 2016, the work of the Committee earlier in the year meant the process was improved and more efficient.
Operational During the year the Committee noted the increase in the operational readiness prepayment as work Readiness Prepayment Asset progressed on the back office infrastructure project.
At both half year and year end the Committee reviewed the assessment of the savings which were expected to accrue from the associated changes in tariff costs to gain assurance over the appropriateness of the carrying value.
Re-assessment of Fair Value of At the year end the Committee considered the reassessment of the investment contract benefit and the Insurance Bond and Pension Business revised treatment of part of the liability as Deferred Income.
The Committee noted that the revised approach had no overall impact on the net assets, nor on emergence of profit, but recognised the benefit of aligning the liability with the client encashment value.
Following discussion the Committee approved adoption of the reassessment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 81 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Area of Focus Activity APMs Underlying Profit, EEV and As part of the preparation for year end, the Committee considered the Companys approach to APMs.
Cash Result The Committee noted and supported the increasing focus on the Cash and Underlying Cash results, and the move to present cash emergence from the business in a way that would be consistent with other wealth managers.
The Committee discussed the more succinct EEV reporting, noting the importance of EEV in relation to bonus schemes, but ultimately agreed a reduced level of assurance for EEV recognising development in reporting practice in the industry.
The Committee specifically considered the guidance from ESMA and the FRC in relation to APMs when considering the analysis presented in the Report and Accounts and approved the inclusion of a Glossary of APMs.
Launch of the Retirement Account The Committee received updates from management and Internal Audit through the year about project on the Bluedoor administration progress, and assurance about the test strategy and go no-go governance process for the product launch.
system The Committee endorsed managements approach to mitigating launch risk through use of a low key pilot, to a limited group of Partners initially, with a controlled ramp-up.
The new system was successfully launched in October with ramp-up progressing steadily and full-roll-out expected in Q1 2017.
Segmental Reporting During the year the Committee reviewed the approach to segmental reporting as determined by the Board.
Increasingly the business is managed as a single vertically integrated Company and it is on this basis that information is reported to the Board.
Therefore whilst the Committee acknowledged that the prior year reporting reflected a useful analysis of the accounting information, it was agreed with the Board that the reporting should be simplified to reflect just a single unit in the financial statements.
Acquisition of Rowan Dartington, Following the completion of the Rowan Dartington and Technical Connection acquisitions, and a number Technical Connection and Other of other transactions, the Committee reviewed the consolidation of the additional entities and reporting of IFAs the transaction costs and intangibles.
Charge Reviews in Legacy Business Having been informed of the intention to review charges on the portfolios, the Committee requested Cohorts updates to monitor that progress was satisfactory.
Capital Management Having taken on responsibility for oversight of Group Capital Management, the Committee requested a regular update on capital management in the Group should be included as part of the standing agenda.
The Committee also reviewed the systems for managing capital and considered forecasts of capital requirements.
ERP System Implementation In the second half of the year, the Company implemented the first elements of a new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system, principally a new general ledger.
Given the significance of this project the Committee received presentations on the background and purpose of the project, and also updates on progress and governance, including insight into the project from the external auditors.
The Chair of the Committee was able to share his experience of similar processes elsewhere, and by the end of the year the Committee had received reassurance from management, as well as internal and external audit, about the fitness of the new system to support year-end reporting.
Year-end Reporting Project As every year, the Committee engaged with management in a review of the annual reporting processes, encouraged evolution to reflect the growth and development of the Company.
82 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: After numerous changes in Financial Reporting and Regulation during 2015, the most significant impact during 2016 was the implementation of Solvency II.
During the first half of the year the Committee rigorously reviewed the new reporting being produced.
More detail on this work, and other developments considered by the Committee, are summarised in the table: Area of Focus Activity Solvency II Following implementation of Solvency II in January 2016, the Committee undertook an extensive review of the initial reporting stages, including, in particular, the incorporation of an initial assessment in the prior year Annual Report and Accounts.
This was followed by review of Day 1 and Q1 regulatory submissions in May.
The Committee considered an annual report from the Actuarial Function and noted the developments proposed, requesting updates on progress through the year.
In the second half of the year, the Committee considered Solvency II as an integral part of the year-end reporting process for the first time, including consideration of the SFCR reporting requirement.
IFRS developments As part of the standing agenda, the Committee had requested regular updates on developments in Financial Reporting, particularly IFRS.
The standards which are changing and which have the potential to impact the Company include IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
The Committee was provided with assessments of the likely impact, which were used to support the commentary included in the Annual Report and Accounts on page 131.
EU Audit Regulation and Directive The UK implemented the EU Audit Regulation and Directive during the year.
The Audit Committee discussed and reviewed compliance with the new rules with the external auditor, and also participated in FRC initiatives to support implementation of the new guidelines.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Opinion The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to give its opinion as to whether it considers the Companys Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
To aid the Board, the Audit Committee carried out a formal review of the Annual Report and Accounts in relation to this requirement, including a consideration of the results of activities and information described above.
In particular, the Committee reflected on the following questions: Does the report present the whole story, including challenges and issues faced as well as Company achievements?
Does the report achieve consistency between the financial statements and the narrative sections?
Are appropriate performance measures included and clearly explained?
Are key judgements and estimation uncertainties in the financial statements appropriately explained and are they consistent with the Audit Committee report and the risks the external auditor addresses in its report?
Does the overall document have a clear and cohesive structure?
Is the report readable and are the important messages highlighted appropriately?
Are explanations of business models, strategies and accounting policies clear?
Following this review, the Committee was able to advise the Board that the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 are indeed fair, balanced and understandable.
External Auditor The Committee has responsibility for the work of the external auditor of the Company.
The auditor attended all Audit Committee meetings, and reported on their work.
The Committee also arranged for regular private meetings with the external auditors.
The Chair of the Committee also met regularly with the Senior Statutory Auditor both to receive updates on progress and also to discuss any private matters.
The Audit plan was presented, discussed and agreed with the Audit Committee at the October meeting, setting out the activity planned and the major risks identified.
Regular progress updates were presented at the November and January meetings, with a full report presented at the conclusion of the audit in February.
The Committee discussed the findings from the work under the headings of the major risks as set out in the original audit plan and members applied their understanding of the scope of work, findings, judgements and conclusions of the external audit in their evaluation that the financial statements had been properly prepared.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 83 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Particular areas that the Audit Committee requested the external auditor to consider as part of their audit work included: Area of Focus Activity Client Assets CASS audit The Committee requested additional information from PwC regarding progress with the CASS Audit, not least due to concerns about the reporting timetable.
Third Party Administration Given the importance of service levels, and with the business having experienced a short term issue early in Outsource Providers the year, the Committee requested the auditors focus particular attention on the outsource provider.
EEV Following the implementation of Solvency II the Committee asked to be kept informed of developments in reporting in the industry, particularly EEV.
Presentations on Topical Issues During the year the Committee requested support from the external auditors as part of the audit work, including specific presentations on topical issues.
In particular a number of members of the Committee discussed presentations on Developments in the Wealth Management Industry including Robo-advice: and A demonstration of the HALO proprietary audit software, which was used for the first time during the year to support both the UT audit and the Group audit, and facilitates complete coverage for verification of asset prices.
During the year the Committee again reviewed the policy on Auditor Independence, in light of the final Ethical Standard published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, ready for adoption in 2017.
The new policy makes clear the types of non-audit work which are prohibited, and our robust policy of only engaging our auditor for limited non-audit work, where there is no risk of compromising independence, and where it is appropriate to do so.
Since there has been some ambiguity about the treatment under the new EU Audit Regulation and Directive of audit work on the Groups Unit Trusts, the Committee was pro-active in discussing this point with industry experts and the FRC.
Ultimately, the Committee was particularly mindful of the engagement of PwC to audit the Groups Unit Trusts and of the potential for conflict.
Due consideration has therefore been given to full disclosure of the relationship in the Report and Accounts, and to ensure appropriate safeguards are in place.
The policy also sets out St. Jamess Places commitment to regular rotation of the auditors, taking into account both the EU and Competition and Markets Authority rules.
In particular, the Committee is committed to reviewing the performance of the auditor every year, and considering whether a change is required.
The Committee used their experience and the following additional information to assess the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the Companys external auditor: Area of Focus Activity Auditor Effectiveness and Quality The consideration given of the annual review by the FRC of the main auditing firms: The Audit Quality Review report on  LLP specifically: The experience and knowledge of the team, with due regard to the requirement for regular rotation of audit team members : and Results of an internal survey of auditor performance.
Auditor Independence and Review of the nature and extent of other non-audit work undertaken to confirm compliance with our Objectivity policy: Review by SJP to confirm no links or investments with the Company by the audit team: Regular rotation of audit team: and Appropriate considerations when recruiting a former audit partner.
Level of Fees Detailed information on the break-down of fees paid to our external audit firm is provided in Note 5 of the financial statements on page 141.
Included in the total fees paid to PwC of 1.6 million 2015: 1.5 million is 0.1 million 2015: nil of fees in relation to a cyber security review.
In this instance the Committee determined PwC were best placed to provide this non-audit service.
84 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: As a result of this work, the Committee concluded that the audit service of PwC was fit for purpose and provided a robust evaluation of the risks underlying the Companys financial statements.
PwC had originally been appointed as auditor in 2009, and in the best interests of shareholders, and as anticipated when we last reported the audit was tendered during 2016 in respect of the 2017 year end audit.
The process included the following steps: An initial review of the whole market assessed the suitability of available firms and the review was used to identify a short list of audit firms with the expertise and capacity required: The Audit Committee established an internal sub-committee to manage the process, chaired by the Chair of the Audit Committee and including the Chief Financial Officer.
Each member of the sub-committee disclosed their interests before a formal process was established to identify and manage potential conflicts of interest that existed between selected audit firms and the Group: Four short-listed audit firms were invited to express an interest in tendering and objective criteria were established to ensure a thorough and consistent process was followed when assessing the tender proposals.
The criteria were weighted to take account of their relative importance to the overall outcome and included the audit firms understanding of the Group and its market, its technical capability and the quality of its employees.
A broad range of factors were identified under each criteria to assist with the assessment process: Following the withdrawal of two of the short-listed audit firms due to their own independence and capacity issues, the remaining candidates PwC and Deloitte were asked to submit an initial summary proposal.
These proposals were assessed by reference to the criteria referred to above and material differences in the proposals were identified: Following consideration of the proposals, and assessment, the sub-committee recommended that PwC be retained as the Auditor.
Both firms demonstrated they had the technical capabilities and people to deliver a high quality audit.
However, due to the nature of SJPs business, achieving independence can be challenging and in this context PwC was able to achieve continued independence from the Group with less disruption and impact on the SJP community and business: and The Audit Committee considered a report setting out the sub-committees consideration of both firms and endorsed its sharing with the Board, together with the recommendation that a resolution be put to shareholders at the next AGM, proposing the reappointment of PwC as the Companys external auditor.
Having undertaken a tender process in 2016 in respect of the 2017 audit, PwCs appointment as the Groups external auditor meets the relevant requirements and recommendations relating to the tenure of appointment set out in The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order, Regulation EU No 537 2014 and the FRCs revised Ethical Standard June 2016.
Having confirmed the proposed reappointment of PwC we will need to change our audit firm by no later than the 2027 audit.
The slightly different rules in Dublin, which limit auditors to a maximum of ten years mean that we will have to change our auditor in Dublin for the 2019 audit, although we will ensure appropriate arrangements for the new auditor to liaise with the Group auditor for purposes of Group reporting.
In relation to the service provided by PwC, having rotated our Senior Statutory Auditor to be Jeremy Jensen in 2014, we are expecting rotation of this key role by 2019.
Internal Audit The Committee is responsible for monitoring the work of the Internal Audit function and its effectiveness.
The Director of Internal Audit has regular one-to-one meetings with the Chair of the Audit Committee and, if necessary, the Board and is accountable to the Audit Committee.
During the year the Committee reviewed and approved the Audit Charter, as required by the standards of the IIA Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Internal Audit function also presented periodic reviews of the skills and capabilities within the team.
The Internal Audit function reviewed and reported on the performance of the co-sourcing agreement with Deloitte LLP, which has been an effective relationship.
Co-sourcing provides specialist expertise and additional resources to maintain and enhance the level of assurance, provided to the Audit Committee.
The work plan for the Internal Audit function was agreed at the start of the year, and progress was monitored through the year, with particular focus on whether the team had the necessary resources to implement the plan in a timely manner at each of the quarterly review points for plan coverage.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 85 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Risk based Internal Audit work during the year has focused on key control priorities identified at the planning stage with the Committee, these being: Area of Focus Activity Strategic Initiatives and other Major Administration system continued coverage of the programme to upgrade the Groups back-office Change Projects administration systems: ERP review of the implementation of the new general ledger: and Rowan Dartington Assessment of the acquisition process and integration work.
Operational Integrity and Investment Management Approach processes and controls: Technology Information technology review of data quality: Client experience: Client money: and Treasury processes and controls.
Third Party Risk Management Management and oversight of contracts in relation to material outsourcers, particularly IFDS and Syntel: Business continuity planning and disaster recovery arrangements at key third parties, in particular IFDS and Capita: and General audit coverage of other key third parties.
Governance and Risk Management Executive Committee and Board management information: and Financial Crime.
Regulation and Compliance Business assurance file checking: and Partner supervision structure and controls.
In addition, all audits addressed the themes of the robustness of the operation of control self-assessments as outlined in the following section, process efficiency and risk and control culture.
When receiving regular updates from the Director of Internal Audit in relation to the results of completed audits, the Committee paid careful attention to any areas where the audit led to remedial action being recommended.
The actions arising were monitored to ensure completion.
In practice, 92% 2015: 86% of actions were completed in line with the original agreed deadlines, with the rest expected to be completed by appropriately agreed revised deadlines.
No second revisions of deadlines were permitted during the year.
System of Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls.
In practice, management will design and implement controls, and the Board will ensure management discharges this responsibility.
The Audit Committee and Risk Committee work closely together to ensure controls mitigating major risks are appropriately designed and operating effectively.
The Risk Committee therefore provides regular updates to the Audit Committee on the status of risk management in the Group.
The Group adopts the three lines of defence model as the design basis for its internal control framework and the process for reviewing the effectiveness of the framework takes account of this model as follows: Area of Focus Activity First Line Operations Control Self-Assessment attestation from management: Attestation by significant third party suppliers of outsourced administration services: and CEO attestation to the Audit Committee on the integrity of first line operations.
Second Line Risk Management and Control assessments: Controls Risk control self-assessments: Compliance monitoring: and Business assurance thematic reviews.
Review of the control self-assessment system led by the Controls Manager at half year and year-end: CEO attestation to the Audit Committee on the second line, risk management functions: and Reports from the Risk Committee.
Third Line Audit Internal Audit ongoing assurance activity, including reviews by external organisations, managed by Internal Audit: and Internal Audit Internal Control Annual Evaluation report as outlined below.
86 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: External Audit acts as a further check on the Companys processes.
In summary, the Chief Executive has ultimate responsibility for the first two lines of defence and uses his knowledge of the business, and that of his senior management team, to provide an opinion on the control systems.
Separately, Internal Audit provides an independent opinion the Internal Control Evaluation report, from a third line perspective, based on Internal Audit activity conducted throughout the year and Internal Audits further analysis and appraisal of the outputs from a wide range of other sources.
These sources of assurance assist the Audit Committee in completing its annual review and enable the Audit Committee to attest on behalf of the Board that it has been able to properly review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control in accordance with the 2014 FRC Guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
The Audit Committee did not identify any significant failings or weaknesses and it has ensured that corrective action is being taken on matters arising from the review.
Other Activity The Chair of the Committee acts as a key contact for the Whistleblowing Policy and is the whistleblowers champion under the Senior Insurance Managers Regime.
The Committee reviewed whistleblowing arrangements during the year and concluded that the arrangements were adequate and consistently in-force across the entire Group.
The Audit Committee is responsible for carrying out the function required under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR7.1.
Committee Effectiveness The Committees effectiveness and its interaction with the Board and other Committees was evaluated as part of the overall assessment of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, details of which can be found on page 79.
Having considered the output from that assessment and reviewed the effectiveness of the work undertaken by the Committee against its terms of reference, the Committee concluded that it continued to perform effectively and there were no material areas of concern.
The terms of reference, which were revised in 2016 and which set out the Committees role and authority, can be found on the corporate website at www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 87
