The Property Board Richard Bannister Guy Gusterson Mike Herbert Regional Director Group Residential Director Regional Director Yorkshire and North East The Trentham Estate Length of service: 10 years.
Length of service: Eight years.
Experience: joined St. Modwen as Land Director for Project MoDEL in 2006 and became Residential Experience: began his career at St. Modwen as Experience: began his career as a chartered surveyor Director in 2009 and Group Residential Director in 2015.
Development Manager for the Yorkshire and North East at Louis Taylor Ltd advising on commercial property Previously Development Director at Crest Nicholson plc region in 2008 and was promoted to Regional Manager projects before joining St. Modwen as Development overseeing residential-led mixed-use developments in in 2014 and Regional Director in 2015.
Previously Surveyor and promoted to Regional Director in 1997.
London and the South East.
Led the establishment Strategic Director of Pearson Developments Ltd Delivered numerous major projects across the North and early development of St. Modwen Homes.
and worked at Turner & Partners Chartered Surveyors.
Staffordshire region including Trentham Lakes, Etruria A member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Key activity in the year: responsible for maximising the value of the Groups residential land bank Key activity in the year: secured planning consent Key activity in the year: continues to oversee the through St. Modwens residential projects, delivery for and delivery of over 100,000 sq ft of pre-let and regeneration and management of the Trentham Estate, of infrastructure, working with joint venture partners speculative build across the retail and industrial sectors a 725 acre tourist, leisure and shopping destination and co-ordinating development with St. Modwen in Doncaster.
Continues to oversee the ongoing centred on the restored Trentham Gardens and Homes and the Companys PRS activities.
development of Waterdale Shopping Centre, Doncaster attracting over 3 million visitors per year.
Construction and Billingham Town Centre, including 22,000 sq ft of of 26 new retail units in the Trentham Shopping Village new development at Waterdale and lettings to Costa commenced in the year: scheduled for completion and Co-op at Billingham.
in 2017 these units will increase the existing footprint of the Village which comprises 60 shops, cafs and restaurants.
Rupert Joseland Steven Knowles Richard Powell Regional Director Regional Director North West Build Director South West and South Wales Length of service: 13 years.
Experience: has over 20 years experience in the Experience: a construction career spanning almost property sector, including in the investment and 30 years, including commercial management and Experience: joined Chestertons on graduating before development division at Evans Property Group Ltd. quantity surveying roles with companies such as moving to Boots Properties Ltd and then to Miller Joined as Northern Development Surveyor in 2003 Bovis Lend Lease Ltd, Balfour Beatty Building Ltd Developments Ltd to gain further experience in and promoted to North West Regional Director and Skanska Construction UK Ltd.
Joined St. Modwen commercial development and estate management.
A member of the Royal Institution of in 2006 as Construction Manager and promoted to Promoted from Midlands Development Surveyor in Chartered Surveyors.
2004 and moved to Bristol to establish the South West and South Wales regional office.
A member of the Royal Key activity in the year: strategic acquisitions of Warth Key activity in the year: responsible for delivery of Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Business Park, Bury 9.5m and Crosby Town Centre the regional construction programme, including the 2.675m and selection as development partner for ongoing management of the third phase of student Key activity in the year: continued development at Chamberhall Business Park, Bury.
Commenced accommodation at Swansea University Bay Campus Swansea University Bay Campus, now offering construction work on the 150m regeneration scheme which will provide a further 538 student rooms at the accommodation for over 1,640 students with facilities at Great Homer Street, including a Sainsburys food site by autumn 2017. management provision through St. Modwen Student store and 80,000 sq ft of additional retail space with Living.
Completed a number of speculative and occupier pre-lets at 90%.
Further speculative development led deals during the year and signed a conditional at Stonebridge Business Park, Liverpool, underway contract to develop a distribution park at Chippenham following completion of a 69,000 sq ft facility for Gateway, a strategic 79 acre site immediately adjacent DPD UK.
to junction 17 of the M4 motorway.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 56 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Mark Allan, Steve Burke, Rob Hudson and Tanya Stote are also members of the Property Board.
See pages 54 and 55 for their biographies.
Stephen Prosser Tim Seddon Regional Director Midlands Regional Director London and South East Length of service: 19 years.
Experience: background in surveying, property valuation and asset management for both local councils Experience: began his career at Edward Erdman and Allied London Properties plc.
Established the as Development Surveyor before moving to Land Yorkshire and North East office in 2005 and became Securities plc in 1994.
Here he gained experience Regional Director for the North in 2012.
Promoted to in both the retail and commercial offices sectors and Midlands Regional Director in 2014.
A member of the became Development Director, with responsibility for Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
a number of town and city centre regeneration-led projects throughout the UK.
Key activity in the year: oversees the ongoing 1bn regeneration of Longbridge, including the continued Key activity in the year: concluded conditional land development of the Town Centre and the new 180 agreement for the 200m redevelopment of Spray bedroom residential facility for the Defence Infrastructure Street Quarter, Woolwich in joint venture with Notting Organisation.
Other regional activity included progress Hill Housing and secured the sale of the third residential at the mixed-use schemes at Bramshall Meadows, scheme at South Ockendon.
Completed refurbishment Uttoxeter and Egstow Park, Clay Cross.
works of Farnborough Shopping Centre and secured various lettings at Henley Business Park.
Oversight of the delivery of the new wholesale facility for the Covent Garden Market Authority at New Covent Garden Market.
Dave Smith Rupert Wood Managing Director Regional Director St. Modwen Homes Northern Home Counties Length of service: One year.
Experience: joined St. Modwen in 2015 from Morgan Experience: over 20 years real estate experience Sindall where he was Construction and Infrastructure across investment, development, asset and property Managing Director and a member of the executive team.
Joined St. Modwen in 2006 from Previously worked for St. Modwen from 2003 until 2009 LendLease where he was Senior Development as a Construction Manager.
A member of the Royal Manager.
Established the Northern Home Counties Institution of Chartered Surveyors and a fellow of the regional office in 2008 as Regional Manager and Chartered Institute of Building.
promoted to Regional Director in 2009.
A member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Key activity in the year: responsible for St. Modwen Homes, the Groups housebuilding business, which has Key activity in the year: secured the appointment of 18 schemes under development across the country and St. Modwen as Bovis Homes commercial development eight due to start on site in 2017.
The business delivered partner on 108 acres at Stanton Cross, Wellingborough.
485 completions in the year and 15.3m property profit.
Sale of 90,000 sq ft speculatively developed industrial estate at Letchworth at a yield of 5.2%.
Continues to lead St. Modwen Energy, established to promote large scale power generation projects such as Wrexham Energy Centre, North Wales and Meaford Energy Centre, Staffordshire: a Development Consent Order for the latter was secured in July.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 57
