Corporate governance report 4.1 Introduction from Will Whitehorn, 4.2 Corporate governance and compliance Deputy Chairman with the Code The Stagecoach Group is committed to ensuring that it operates with the The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups high standards of corporate governance that are expected of a group activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance with shares traded on the London Stock Exchange.
This introduction to practices within the Group.
This section 4 of the Annual Report sets out the Groups corporate governance report is an opportunity to look back Stagecoach Groups corporate governance arrangements.
Taken together with the Directors report, it includes the disclosures recommended by at the year 2015 16, at the progress that has been made with the the Financial Reporting Council FRC UK Corporate Governance Code governance of the Group and to look forward to the governance the Code, and describes how the principles of good corporate challenges for the future.
governance that are set out in the Code have been applied.
In line with During the year, Garry Watts announced his intention to step down from best practice, separate reports are provided from each of the Audit, the Board as he approached nine years service on the Board.
I took over Nomination, Health, Safety and Environmental and Remuneration from Garry as Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director on 1 Committees.
April 2016 and Garry has indicated his intention to step down from the Board on 31 July 2016.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank The Code issued in September 2014 applied to the Companys financial Garry for his contribution to the Group during his tenure on the Board year from 1 May 2015 to 30 April 2016.
The Directors believe that and in particular for helping to maintain and develop the strong throughout the year ended 30 April 2016 the Group complied with all of corporate governance culture of the Group.
I am pleased to have taken the provisions of the Code.
A copy of the Code is available at over the role of Deputy Chairman from such a positive position and look https: www.
uk Our-Work Publications Corporateforward to the challenge of maintaining and improving that position over Governance .
As the Deputy Chairman, it is my responsibility to promote the The Group also complies with the corporate governance requirements of highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, and Disclosure and particularly at Board level.
This report sets out the governance structure Transparency Rules.
in place for the Group and I believe it demonstrates that this structure is both robust and appropriate for the Groups operations.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 requires the corporate governance statement to contain The composition of the Board has been refreshed over the year.
The certain information required by Schedule 7 to the Large and MediumBoard was pleased to be able to recruit James Bilefield and Karen sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI Thomson as new, independent, non-executive directors.
This information relates to significant interests in the pleased to announce the proposed election of Ray OToole as a nonsecurities of the Company, securities carrying special rights with regard executive director with effect from 1 September 2016. to the control of the Company, restrictions on voting rights, rules It is now over three years since Martin Griffiths took over as Chief regarding the appointment and replacement of directors, rules regarding Executive from Sir Brian Souter.
As the Groups Chairman, Sir Brian is changes to the Companys Articles of Association and the Directors responsible for the conduct of the Board as a whole and in that position: powers in relation to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its the Board is able to draw on his depth of experience, particularly in shares.
The relevant information can be found in sections 3.5 and 3.11 considering broader strategic decisions, while the executive directors of this Annual Report.
I am satisfied that the views of all of the Directors are heard and given due weight and that our corporate governance 4.3 Composition of the Board procedures are appropriate for the Group.
The composition of the Board is as follows: The Board focuses on the Groups strategy and seeks to understand the risks to the Group and the markets that it operates in.
We aim to achieve Date of Independent appointment Nonappropriate returns for our shareholders, balanced against an appropriate if later than Executive Other level of risk and to look ahead to where we believe opportunities are 1 May 2010 Chairman Director Director going to arise and to anticipate and address the challenges that the business faces.
I believe that good governance is central to achieving Sir Brian Souter Chairman 3 these aims for the business as a whole and to ensure that our management team is properly challenged to meet the Groups objectives.
Gregor Alexander Non-Executive Director 3 In the past year, the Board has continued to discuss franchise James Bilefield opportunities available in the rail sector, the balance of the Group Non-Executive Director 3 between its rail and bus businesses and the emerging opportunities and Sir Ewan Brown challenges in the European inter-city coach market.
The Board recognises Non-Executive Director 3 and has discussed in some detail the risks to the business in the changing political landscape.
The Board has considered how new technology has Karen Thomson Non-Executive Director 3 enabled alternatives that challenge the traditional modes of public transport and opportunities for public transport providers to use Garry Watts information technology to enhance the passenger experience and attract Non-Executive Director 3 more passengers to our services.
The management team has risen to this Will Whitehorn challenge and has increased the focus of the Group on its information Senior Independent Director technology resources.
An early result of this has been a significantly & Deputy Chairman 3 improved stagecoachbus.
com website, providing more information to Ann Gloag passengers in a more accessible form, along with a greater range of ways Non-Executive Director 3 to pay for tickets on line and to carry tickets on mobile devices.
Martin Griffiths Chief Executive 3 I am confident that the corporate governance structure of the Board provides an appropriate forum to develop and adapt the Groups Ross Paterson Finance Director 3 strategy to address future challenges and opportunities.
As previously explained, Garry Watts has indicated his intention to step down from the Board on 31 July 2016.
We have announced the proposed election of Ray OToole to the Board with effect from 1 September 2016.
Following those two changes, the Board will continue to comprise ten Will Whitehorn directors, six of whom are considered to be independent by the Board and Deputy Chairman five of whom meet the criteria suggested by the Code for determining director independence.
8 July 2016 page 34 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:14 Page 35 Board to be independent.
Even were Sir Ewan Brown not treated as 4.4 Division of responsibilities independent, the balance of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors Sir Brian Souter was the Chief Executive of the Group until 1 May 2013. complies with the recommendations of the Code.
When Sir Brian became the Chairman of the Group and Martin Griffiths In recognition of the factors suggested by the Code for determining became Chief Executive, the Board created the new role of Deputy independence, Sir Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration Chairman to maintain the strength of its governance arrangements.
The Committee or the Audit Committee.
split of the Chairmans, Deputy Chairmans and Chief Executives All of the Directors stand for election or re-election at each annual general responsibilities has been agreed in writing and has been approved by the meeting of the Company.
The Deputy Chairman reports to the Chairman and to the Board and has responsibility for ensuring proper corporate governance.
The Deputy Chairmans role includes ensuring that the Boards consideration 4.6 Operation of the Board of matters is in the best interests of the Group and unaffected by conflicts The Board generally meets six times each year.
Additional meetings of the of interest.
No executives report directly to the Deputy Chairman.
Board are held to consider matters arising between scheduled Board The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board and for ensuring meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the scheduled meeting.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board and its development and determination of the Groups strategy and overall Committees, the Directors are in more frequent but less formal contact commercial objectives.
The Deputy Chairman is responsible for ensuring with each other and with the Groups management on a range of matters.
that the Board determines the Groups strategy and overall commercial The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without objectives with the overall success of the Group in mind and to provide the Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Non-Executive guidance in this regard to the Chairman.
The Chief Executive is responsible Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman, meet without the Chairman at least for proposing and developing that strategy with support and guidance annually.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Groups business and reports to the Chairman and to the Board All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of directly.
All other members of the executive management team report the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary either directly or indirectly to the Chief Executive.
and may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge Will Whitehorn, as well as being Deputy Chairman, is the Groups Senior of their duties as directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they have and removal is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the concerns which contact through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Board for ensuring the Board procedures are complied with.
Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently such training, briefings and site visits as are considered necessary to keep 4.5 Board independence and balance abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
The Chairman reviews The Directors biographies appear in section 2 of this Annual Report and the Directors training and development needs in conjunction with the illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Company Secretary.
Training can encompass health, safety, environmental, Board to lead and control the Group.
The Board delegates the operational social and governance matters.
management of the Group to the Chief Executive and Finance Director The number of full Board meetings during the year was six.
The full Board Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an independent typically meets at least once a year at an operational location.
Regular viewpoint and create an overall balance.
The Directors have a communication is maintained by the Chairman with other directors complementary range of experience that ensures no one director or between meetings to ensure all directors are well informed on strategic viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
The Board met in Washington DC in October 2015, The Code suggests that independent non-executive directors should make giving the Board the opportunity to inspect the facilities at the Groups up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
Throughout the operations in the city and to meet the local management team.
The year from 1 May 2015 to 30 April 2016, the Board considers that it February 2016 Board meeting was held at York railway station and the complied with this Code requirement.
The current position is that two Board received briefings on the Virgin Trains East Coast operations and thirds of the Board members excluding the Chairman are independent.
received presentations from members of the Groups talent programme.
In In determining the independence of non-executive directors, the Board November 2015, the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee visited considers a number of factors.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the the Groups South West Trains rail operations and was briefed on following questions: operational challenges, particularly from overcrowding and station layouts, Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive and the management teams responses to those challenges.
The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the Board and its Committees?
are proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or disposals.
The Directors have full and timely access to information with Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints Board papers distributed in advance of meetings.
Notable matters that the for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
Board considered during the year ended 30 April 2016 included: Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of the Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question Refinancing of the Groups 400m bonds strategy and executive managements running of the business?
Discussion of rail franchise bids, including the Transpennine Express Sir Ewan Brown, one of the six independent Non-Executive Directors, has franchise, a proposed joint bid with Abellio for the Greater Anglia served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble franchise and the decision not to proceed with an equity participation in Grossart, which has from time to time provided advice to the Company.
the Greater Anglia bid The Company recognises and understands investor concerns over longerDevelopment of megabus.
com services in mainland Europe, including serving non-executive directors but continues to regard Sir Ewan Brown as the expansion of the business in France and Italy, and the subsequent independent.
Sir Ewan Browns long association with the Group and the sale of the European retail business to FlixBus sound and detailed knowledge of the Groups business that he has Group strategy and development opportunities developed enables him to provide a robust and effective challenge to Political and regulatory developments and potential developments, management.
The Board believes that Sir Ewan Browns length of service including the Quality Contract proposals in North East England and enhances his effectiveness as a non-executive director and that he remains independent in character and judgement.
Six of the nine proposed devolution of transport regulatory powers to regional members of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are considered by the authorities Stagecoach Group plc | page 35 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:14 Page 36 Corporate governance report were included in the 2014 Annual Report.
The 2015 and 2016 evaluations Challenges to rail franchise operators from open access bids were not externally facilitated but the Board intends to continue to use Negotiation of a direct award of the South West Trains franchise and the external facilitation of its performance evaluation no less frequently than decision not to proceed with the award on the terms proposed every third year.
Agreement of terms of a new East Midlands Trains franchise The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has The management response to slowing rates of revenue growth in the UK concluded that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate Bus regional operations Division and the UK Rail Division in an effective and constructive manner.
Progress on digital and technology matters, including the management of information security 4.9 Composition of Committees Divisional management and board succession planning The current composition of the various Board Committees is summarised The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under below.
The Board intends to review and revise the composition of the review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to Committees following Garry Watts leaving the Board and Ray OTooles improve the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process proposed election to the Board.
and better control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
Audit Committee Number of members of Committee: 3 Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
Where any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about All members are independent non-executive directors.
the running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are Chairman and designated member with recent recorded in the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director and relevant financial experience resigns, the director is asked to provide a written statement to the Gregor Alexander Chairman of any concerns leading to his or her resignation.
Other members Karen Thomson 4.7 Operational management of the Group Will Whitehorn The Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-to-face or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
Nomination Committee There are four principal operating divisions: UK Bus London : headed by a managing director Number of members of Committee: 5 UK Bus regional operations : headed by a managing director Chairman North America: headed by a chief operating officer Sir Brian Souter UK Rail: headed by a managing director Other members Although the megabus Europe business is now reported as a separate James Bilefield segment for financial reporting purposes, it is managed as part of the UK Sir Ewan Brown Bus regional operations operating division.
Garry Watts Each division comprises a number of autonomous business units, each Will Whitehorn headed by a chairman or managing director who is responsible for the dayRemuneration Committee to-day performance of the business unit.
Each chairman or managing director is supported by his or her own management teams.
Number of members of Committee: 3 All members are independent non-executive directors.
Two of the joint ventures in which the Group has an interest, Virgin Rail Group and Twin America LLC, are managed independently of the Group.
Chairman Each is headed by its own chief executive or managing director.
The Group Garry Watts has two representatives on the Board of Virgin Rail Group and three Other members representatives on the Board of Twin America LLC.
The other trading joint Gregor Alexander venture in which the Group has an interest, Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, has a joint board.
The Group is responsible for the day-to-day James Bilefield management of that business.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee 4.8 Performance evaluation Number of members of Committee: 4 The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each Chairman individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed Will Whitehorn by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Boards Other members assessment of the performance of the Chairman is co-ordinated by the Deputy Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Non-Executive Martin Griffiths Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The NonAnn Gloag Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The Karen Thomson Chairman obtains feedback from each individual Director on the performance of the Board and other Board members.
The Deputy Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the 4.10 Reports from the Committees performance of the Chairman.
A questionnaire-based process is Reports from each of the Committees of the Board are set out in sections undertaken to assess the performance of each of the Boards 5 to 8 of this Annual Report.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its committees.
The Code recommends board performance evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Board appointed Margaret Exley of SCT Consultants to facilitate its evaluation in the year ended 30 April 2014 and details of the review page 36 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:14 Page 37 to answer questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an 4.11 Individual director participation at opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman and other meetings directors on a variety of topics and further information is provided at the The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings Annual General Meeting on the Groups principal business activities.
It is of committees and the Annual General Meeting by directors during the the Companys policy to propose a separate resolution at the Annual year ended 30 April 2016: General Meeting for each substantially separate issue.
All resolutions proposed to the 2015 Annual General Meeting were decided by a poll as PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration opposed to a show of hands and details of all votes lodged for and IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee against, or withheld, in respect of each resolution of the 2015 Annual General Meeting were published on the Groups website at Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible http: www.
aspx Sir Brian Souter 6 6 n a n a n a n a The Group intends to undertake a poll on each resolution put to the Martin Griffiths 6 6 n a n a n a n a 2016 Annual General Meeting.
All votes cast for or against each Gregor Alexander 6 6 3 3 3 3 resolution, whether by proxy or in person at the meeting, will be aggregated and the results will be reported on the Groups website.
James Bilefield 2 2 n a n a 1 1 The Company and its registrars have established procedures to ensure Sir Ewan Brown 6 6 n a n a n a n a that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Ann Gloag 6 6 n a n a n a n a Helen Mahy 4 5 2 2 n a n a 4.13 Risk management Ross Paterson 6 6 n a n a n a n a The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a sound risk culture throughout the Group such that risks are identified, evaluated and Karen Thomson 1 1 1 1 n a n a managed appropriately.
Further details are provided in the sections that Gary Watts 6 6 n a n a 3 3 follow about the Boards appetite for risk and the Groups risk Phil White 4 5 1 2 2 2 management process.
Will Whitehorn 6 6 1 1 2 2 4.13.1 Risk appetite The Board considers that it is in the interests of the Groups stakeholders Health, Safety for the Group to evaluate and accept risk.
Delivering the Groups strategy PARTICIPATION and Environmental Nomination Annual General and objectives necessitates some risk taking.
IN MEETINGS Committee Committee Meeting It is the Groups objective that the risk of it not remaining viable for the Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible foreseeable future should be low.
Its appetite for risk reflects that overall Sir Brian Souter n a n a n a n a 1 1 objective.
Consistent with that risk appetite: Martin Griffiths 6 6 n a n a 1 1 Safety is at the heart of the Groups business as explained in section 1.8.
Health and safety risks are carefully Gregor Alexander n a n a n a n a 1 1 assessed and the Group avoids activities where health and safety risks James Bilefield n a n a n a n a n a n a cannot be managed to an acceptable level.
Sir Ewan Brown n a n a 3 3 1 1 It is the Groups intention to remain focused on the public transport sector and goods and services related to that.
The Group does not Ann Gloag 5 6 n a n a 1 1 currently have plans to expand into businesses unrelated to public Helen Mahy 5 5 1 3 1 1 transport.
Before entering a new country, the Group carefully evaluates Ross Paterson n a n a n a n a 1 1 the risks of doing so.
Karen Thomson 1 1 n a n a n a n a The Group recognises the different risk profiles of each of its businesses and in particular, recognises that profits and cash flows from UK rail Gary Watts n a n a 3 3 1 1 businesses are generally less predictable than those from the Groups Phil White 3 5 n a n a 1 1 bus businesses.
As a result, the Board considers there to be an acceptable limit to the size of the UK rail business relative to the other Will Whitehorn 6 6 2 3 1 1 businesses of the Group.
The Group seeks to minimise as far as practical the risk of breaches of 4.12 Relations with shareholders laws and regulations and applies a zero tolerance approach to employee breaches of legal and regulatory requirements, its own Code of Conduct The Board endeavours to present a fair, balanced and understandable see section 5.4.
6 of this Annual Report, its delegated authority levels assessment of the Groups position and prospects in communications and its other internal policies including in respect of health and safety, with shareholders.
The Group holds periodic meetings with anti-corruption and share dealing.
representatives of major institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of the financial media.
It is the Groups objective to maintain an investment grade credit rating The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of as explained in section 1.6.
the full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors The Board has set a minimum level of undrawn, committed credit lines in the UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after that the Group should aim to maintain at all times and which should be presentations to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being available for borrowings.
taken are effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are Stress testing and reverse stress testing are undertaken in respect of known.
Written responses are given to letters or e-mails received from major investment proposals, major contract bids including rail franchise shareholders.
The Annual Report is published in hard copy and on the bids and generally as part of the Boards assessment of the Groups Groups website.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through The Groups risk appetite and related objectives are reflected in the briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR objectives that the Remuneration Committee sets for the Executive consultants.
For example, one of the Chief Executives current objectives All shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at the Annual relates to health and safety, while one of the Finance Directors current General Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims to objectives relates to the Groups investment grade credit ratings and their ensure that all the Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting remuneration is partly linked to the achievement of those objectives.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 37 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 15:53 Page 38 Corporate governance report 4.13.2 Risk management process 4.13.3 Principal risks and uncertainties The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing The Board periodically undertakes a robust assessment of the principal the principal risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process.
risks facing the Group, including those risks that would threaten the The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part Groups business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
In of business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in making that assessment, the Board considers the likelihood of each risk materialising in the short-term and the longer term.
In assessing the longer some cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to term viability of the Group see sections 3.12 and 5.5 of this Annual Report identify and manage risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for further information on the Groups viability, the Board has considered for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, the principal risks.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system cannot provide absolute assurance but is designed to provide the Directors with The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised in reasonable assurance that any significant risks or problems are identified section 1.4.
6 of this Annual Report and that section includes an on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Group has established explanation of how we aim to appropriately manage and mitigate those an ongoing process of risk review and certification by the business heads of risks.
Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each 4.14 Internal control identified business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, potential severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness whether it is appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully of the system of risk management and internal control of the Group during controlled or mitigated by the Group.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established, are as For those businesses that have been part of the Group for the whole of the follows: financial year ended 30 April 2016, the Groups risk management process an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, was embedded throughout the businesses for that year and up to the date identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a of the approval of this report.
panel consisting of executive directors and or senior managers by each The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk business units management team, before the overall Group budget is management and internal control environment and such reviews are approved by the Board.
supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
The reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and control and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
The Board believes that it is important third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas that these processes remain rooted throughout the business and the where significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and managing director of each operating unit is responsible for the internal safety, treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy control framework within that unit.
Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of is ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient maintaining a separate risk profile.
The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which was joint control over the activities of joint ventures through Stagecoach outsourced to and has been managed by Deloitte throughout the year to representation on the boards of the entities together with regular 30 April 2016, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in monitoring contact between Stagecoach management and the management of the risk management processes to determine whether internal controls are relevant entities.
effectively designed and properly implemented.
In conjunction with the a performance management appraisal system, which covers the Groups tender for the provision of external audit services for the Group that senior management based on agreed financial and other performance resulted in the Boards recommendation to appoint Ernst & Young as the objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
Companys auditors for the financial year ending 30 April 2017, the Audit significant emphasis on cash flow management.
Bank balances are Committee oversaw a tender for the provision of internal audit services to reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a the Group.
As a result of that tender process, the Group intends to appoint four-weekly basis.
 to manage the Group Risk Assurance Function.
reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters We expect that appointment to be made and take effect in August 2016, including updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury subject to shareholders approving the resolution to appoint Ernst & Young management, foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The as external auditor in place of  at the 2016 Annual Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, A risk-based approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of including due diligence requirements where material businesses are controls.
The monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the being acquired or divested.
integrity and improving, where possible, the Groups risk management each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures process in the context of the Groups overall goals.
A written certificate is provided at least The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as annually by the management of each business confirming that they have external audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the recommended by the external auditors.
The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover joint a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved ventures, but the Group maintains an overview of joint ventures' business and which is subject to regular monitoring.
risk management processes through representation on the boards and in an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy with training and compliance the case of Virgin Rail Group, its audit committee.
management representatives also meet regularly with representatives of Any control weaknesses that these procedures identify are monitored and joint ventures to ensure that they follow appropriate risk management addressed in the normal course of business.
None of the weaknesses procedures.
identified in the year to 30 April 2016 have resulted in any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
page 38 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:14 Page 39 4.15 Process for preparing consolidated 4.16 Pension schemes financial statements The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of The Group has established internal control and risk management systems independent fund managers.
There are twelve trustees for the principal in relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
UK scheme, three of which are employee representatives nominated by The key features of these internal control and risk management systems the members on a regional basis and three are pensioner trustees.
The are: chairman of the trustees of the principal UK scheme is a professional The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks trustee who served for eight years as a fund member elected on internal financial controls periodically.
representative on the National Association of Pension Funds investment Management regularly monitors and considers developments in council, and is a past Trustee Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and trustees.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior where appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial Group and UK Bus executives.
Appropriate briefings and or training are provided to key A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial This Committee is chaired by a non-executive director, Sir Ewan Brown, reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such and also comprises one executive director and other members of senior developments.
The Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each covers all matters affecting the Groups pension schemes from the business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been perspective of the Groups shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that consider, develop and propose recommendations to the Board in respect the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
of such issues as may arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a funding, investment strategy, risk management and internal controls local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance surrounding pension matters.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by By order of the Board the Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and completeness.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local management to explain.
The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each business unit to the management accounts received during the year and obtains explanations for any material differences.
Mike Vaux The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each Company Secretary business unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various 8 July 2016 levels of review by the Group Finance function.
The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an individual independent from those individuals who were responsible for preparing the financial statements.
The review includes checking internal consistency, consistency with other statements, consistency with internal accounting records and arithmetical accuracy.
The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee receives reports from management and the external auditors on significant judgements, changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and other pertinent matters relating to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of all material business units are subject to external audit.
The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
The Group auditors review the audit work papers for material joint ventures that are audited by a different firm of auditors.
