Audit Committee report 5.1 Introduction from Gregor Alexander, 5.4 Activities of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee receives reports from major business functions including As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our Audit the outsourced Risk Assurance Function internal audit.
It also receives Committee report for the financial year ended 30 April 2016 in reports from the external auditors.
It considers the scope and results of accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The report the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements and the describes how we have discharged our responsibilities under the Code accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the Group.
and monitored the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and internal control systems and risk management.
objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
Helen Mahy and Phil White stepped down from the Board and the The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Committee during the year ended 30 April 2016 and I would like to thank Groups website at them for their contributions to the Committee.
com media Files S Stagecoach-Group I am pleased to welcome Karen Thomson as a member of the Attachments about .
I am confident that the Committee will benefit from Karens The sections that follow set out the areas that the Committee focused on extensive experience, including her past membership of another FTSE during and in respect of the year ended 30 April 2016.
Will Whitehorn has temporarily joined the Audit Committee and amongst his wider expertise, brings specific 5.4.
The Board intends to review the composition of the Board The Groups interim and preliminary financial results, as well as its committees in light of recent and planned changes in the Boards own Annual Report, were reviewed and revised by the Audit Committee composition.
before recommending their publication to the Board.
At each meeting, The revised UK Corporate Governance Code was issued in September the Committee discussed with management how they had applied critical 2014 and applies to this years Audit Committee report for the first time.
accounting policies and judgements to these documents, having During the year, the Committee considered the changes relevant to risk considered reports from both the Groups management and the external management and internal control arising from the revised Code, in auditors.
The external auditors attended all meetings of the Committee particular reviewing the processes in place to support the new viability and presented audit plans and findings, amongst other matters.
Other areas of focus in the year included overseeing the The Group has had no interaction with the Financial Reporting Councils tenders of the external audit and the Risk Assurance function.
Corporate Reporting Review team during the year but the Audit Committee would oversee any such interaction.
The Committee considered a number of issues and accounting judgements in respect of the financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2016, of which it considered the most significant to be those set Gregor Alexander out in the table on the following page.
Chairman of the Audit Committee In addition to the significant accounting judgements set out in the table, 8 July 2016 the Committee also considered other accounting and reporting matters in respect of the year ended 30 April 2016, including the following: Exceptional items The Committee considered the appropriateness of 5.2 Composition of the Audit Committee the amounts disclosed as exceptional items in the financial statements The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 4.9 of and the adequacy of the disclosure related to such items.
Gregor Alexander is the current Chairman of the Committee is satisfied that the Groups approach is appropriate in this Audit Committee and is a Chartered Accountant.
Gregor is the Finance area.
Director of SSE plc, a FTSE 100 company, and is the designated Rail franchise opportunities In light of the range of opportunities Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience.
facing the Groups UK Rail Division, the Committee considered The Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the Groups whether any actual or anticipated changes in the commercial terms or industry sector.
Of particular note, are the insights brought by Phil White duration of rail franchises resulted in any changes in accounting and Will Whitehorn during the year from their experience in other estimates.
The Committee also considered the accounting for any organisations involved in the bus and rail sectors.
costs incurred in pursuing rail franchise opportunities.
The Committee concluded that the accounting estimates in the consolidated financial statements had been appropriately updated for such franchise 5.3 Operation of the Audit Committee changes and that any costs incurred in pursuing rail franchise opportunities had been appropriately accounted for.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
In addition, Audit Committee members participated in a meeting in December 2015 to Other liabilities The Committee considered the judgements made in specifically consider the internal and external audit tenders.
The respect of certain other liabilities including the token provision, and Committee retains discretion as to who from outside the Committee considered them to be appropriate.
should attend its meetings but generally invites the following to attend: The Audit Committee also reviewed the evidence that supported the The Group Finance Director: conclusions that the Group remains a going concern and that the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in The Group Financial Controller: operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 30 The Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee: April 2019, noting it was consistent with the disclosure given in section Representatives from the external auditors: 3.12 of this Annual Report.
Representatives from the Risk Assurance internal audit Function.
In addition, the Group Tax Director and Group Treasurer are expected to present to the Committee at least annually.
The Committee may also invite other directors of the Company to attend meetings of the Committee and does so from time to time.
page 40 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:14 Page 41 Significant issues or judgements Work and conclusion of Audit Quantification Relevant notes to the considered by Audit Committee Committee consolidated financial statements Pensions The determination of the Groups The Committee considered the appropriateness The total pensions 6, 25 pension benefit obligation and of pension assumptions by receiving reports expense recognised in the expense for defined benefit pension from management outlining the basis of the consolidated income schemes is dependent on the assumptions used, comparing these assumptions statement for the year selection by the Directors of certain to those applied by other companies operating ended 30 April 2016 was assumptions used by actuaries in in the same sector as the Group as well as by 106.7m 2015: 84.2m calculating such amounts.
Those listed companies more generally, considering and the net retirement assumptions include the discount rate, advice from external actuaries and considering benefit liability as at 30 annual rate of increase in future salary analysis undertaken by the external auditors.
April 2016 was 96.7m levels and mortality rates.
The Committee noted that there was a range of 2015: 160.5m.
acceptable assumptions but concluded that the assumptions applied were appropriate.
Insurance The estimation of the insurance The Committee discussed with management the The insurance provision in 24 provision in respect of traffic accidents key judgements made in determining the the consolidated balance and employee incidents is based on an insurance provision, challenging the sheet as at 30 April 2016 assessment of the expected methodology used, and understanding the was 148.6m 2015: settlement on known claims together extent to which estimates are supported by 150.7m.
with an estimate of settlements that third party actuarial advice and analysis will be made in respect of incidents provided by the external auditors.
The occurring prior to the balance sheet Committee noted that there was a range of date but for which claims have not acceptable estimates for the year-end insurance been reported to the Group.
provision and after challenge, concluded that the amount of the insurance provision was at an appropriate point within that range.
Taxation Estimation of the tax charge requires The Committee considered the judgements The consolidated tax 7, 23 an assessment to be made of the made in respect of tax by reviewing reports charge for the year ended potential tax consequences of from management outlining the basis of the 30 April 2016 was 5.4m certain items that will only be assumptions, challenging the estimates formed 2015: 25.7m.
resolved when agreed by the and considering the extent to which third party The net consolidated tax relevant tax authorities.
professional advice and or historical experience liability as at 30 April 2016 informed the judgements.
The Committee met was 58.8m 2015: with the Groups Tax Director, the Group Tax 63.2m.
Manager and a tax specialist from the external auditors in April 2016.
The specific judgements considered by the Committee included the accounting for the tax effect of fuel derivatives, transfer pricing and the financing of foreign operations.
The Committee concluded that appropriate judgements had been made in determining the tax amounts recorded in the financial statements.
Twin America Litigation Certain of the Groups subsidiaries The Committee considered the appropriateness The carrying value of the 13, 31 and one of its joint ventures, Twin of liabilities held by the Group and its joint Groups interest in Twin America, are party to litigation as venture in respect of the Twin America America as at 30 April 2016 explained in note 31 to the litigation.
It considered this through discussion was Nil 2015: 35.9m, consolidated financial statements.
with management and consideration of relevant after deducting Nil 2015: The ultimate cost to the Group in legal advice.
It evaluated the range of possible 2.6m in respect of the respect of this matter is uncertain outcomes and concluded that appropriate Groups share of liabilities but the Audit Committee is pleased liabilities had been recorded in the consolidated related to the litigation.
that position is now less uncertain as financial statements.
A further 1.6m was held in a result of progress made during the accruals in the Groups year ended 30 April 2016. consolidated balance sheet as at 30 April 2016 2015: 4.1m in respect of liabilities related to the litigation.
Impairment and onerous contracts The Groups critical accounting For those businesses where trading conditions An exceptional charge of 4, 13, 31 policies described in section 1.6.
12 of have been more challenging than previously 37.9m was recognised for this Annual Report, include goodwill expected, in particular Twin America, Sheffield the year ended 30 April and impairment: and acquired Supertram and Virgin Trains East Coast, the 2016 in respect of Twin customer contracts and onerous Committee assessed whether any assets were America.
impaired and whether any contracts had become impairment charge of onerous.
6.0m was recognised in A number of the Groups businesses respect of Sheffield have experienced more challenging The Committee considered the judgements made Supertram.
trading conditions over the last year.
by management in undertaking impairment and The Committee therefore focused on onerous contract reviews and challenged the whether any impairment losses assumptions on matters such as future cash flows, and or onerous contract provisions growth rates, tax rates and discount rates.
arose in respect of those businesses.
Impairment losses were identified in respect of the carrying value of the Groups interest in its joint venture, Twin America, and in respect of assets at Sheffield Supertram.
No new onerous contracts were identified.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 41 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:14 Page 42 Audit Committee report Audit related services These are services that the auditors must 5.4.
2 External auditors undertake or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as The external auditors presented a detailed audit plan to the Committee, auditors.
Such services include formalities relating to bank financing, setting out their analysis of significant audit risks and key judgemental regulatory reports, and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors accounting matters, which would inform their planned scope and approach would generally provide all such services, subject to any legal to the current year audit.
For the year ended 30 April 2016, the most restrictions.
significant risks identified were in relation to provisioning for insurance claims, taxation, exceptional items, pensions accounting and the Twin Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each America impairment assessment, based on the inherent level of specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate management judgement required in these areas.
These risks are skills and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors for tax consulting and prior to July 2016, the Group would monitored through the year and the Committee challenged the work done by the auditors to test managements assumptions and estimates.
consider using the auditors for tax consulting where they were best suited to the work being undertaken.
It is now the Groups policy not Private meetings were held with the external auditors at each Committee to use the auditors for such work.
meeting without the presence of management.
The Committee Chairman also holds discussions with the external auditors between Committee General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select meetings.
an advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors The Audit Committee is responsible for agreeing the audit engagement for general consulting, including the auditors where they are best letter, agreeing the scope of the audit, appointing the audit partner and suited to the work being undertaken and subject to any legal making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and restrictions.
remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to The auditors are only permitted to provide non-audit services to the the external auditors.
Group when the Audit Committee and the auditors are satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the audit Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the teams independence or a conflict of interest that could not be Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship effectively safeguarded.
between the Group and the auditors.
This review includes: In addition to the audit fee,  LLP received nonthe consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance audit related fees of 0.2m 2015: 0.1m, which equate to 19.2% 2015: approval of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are 12.1% of the audit fee and further details of which can be found in note 3 payable to auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: of the consolidated financial statements.
the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: The Committee believes that the level and scope of non-audit services the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements does not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear which have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one benefit obtained from using professional advisors who have a good audit firm or offices of the same firm are involved: and understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
firms have been used where the Group recognises them as having The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit particular areas of expertise or where potential conflicts of interest for the process on an annual basis in the context of the wider assurance auditors are identified.
The Committee will, however, of course review its processes across the Group.
As well as undertaking its own assessment policy on non-audit services from time to time, to ensure continued of the audit effectiveness, the Committee also considers the views of a compliance with laws and regulations, including European Union number of finance managers from various parts of the Group.
auditor assessment questionnaire is completed on an annual basis and examines three main performance criteria robustness of the audit 5.4.
4 Tender of external audit and Risk Assurance process, quality of delivery and quality of people and service.
This Function internal audit assessment also includes consideration of the auditors independence  has been the Groups external auditor since and objectivity, taking into account relevant laws, regulations and 2002.
Until recently, the audit partner was Graham McGregor and the professional requirements.
The assessment involves considering all year ended 30 April 2016 was the fifth consecutive financial year that relationships between the Group and the auditors, including the nature Graham acted as the audit partner.
Martin Cowie, who was involved and quantum of non-audit services.
Assurances are obtained from the throughout the 2016 audit, recently became the lead audit partner and auditors that they and their staff have no financial, business, signed the auditors reports.
As disclosed in last years Annual Report, employment, family or other personal relationship with the Group that the Audit Committee confirmed at its April 2015 meeting its intention to could affect the auditors independence and objectivity, taking account conduct a formal tender process prior to 1 May 2016.
Deloitte has of relevant ethical standards.
The auditors explain to the Audit managed the Risk Assurance Function since 2002, which was also the last Committee their policies and processes for maintaining independence year an internal audit tender was conducted, and as a matter of good and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements.
corporate governance practice, the Committee decided to formally The Committee considered the audit fee of 0.9m 2015: 0.8m for tender this function in conjunction with the external audit tender.
 LLP appropriate and concluded that an effective The Audit Committee issued an initial Request for Information audit can be conducted for such a fee.
questionnaire RFI in August 2015 to parties wishing to tender for the Groups external audit and or internal audit.
3 Non-Audit services An audit tender panel the AT panel was established, comprised of the In May 2014, the European Commission published a directive amending the Statutory Audit Directive and a new Audit Regulation.
The new Audit Committee Chairman, the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
The AT panel reviewed the responses to the RFI and Audit Regulation has the direct effect of law and European Union created a shortlist to take part in the Request for Proposal stage.
Each member states, including the UK, are required to adopt provisions to member of the AT panel had separate meetings with each of the ensure its effective application.
The new Audit Regulation stipulates that a statutory auditor of a public-interest entity, which would include the shortlisted bidders in advance of the proposals being submitted.
All shortlisted bidders were invited to present to the Audit Committee in Company, shall not provide certain non-audit services to that entity, its December 2015. parent undertaking and or its subsidiary undertakings within the European Union.
The Companys auditors will therefore be prohibited The presentations provided the opportunity for detailed discussion and from providing certain non-audit services to the Group that are not rigorous evaluation of the firms.
In determining who to recommend to currently prohibited.
The new requirements shall first apply to the appoint for each role, the Audit Committee took into account a number of Group in respect of its financial year ending 30 April 2018. factors.
These included, but were not limited to, the experience of the firms particularly in the listed company environment and their knowledge of the Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are in transport industry, to inform which firms would provide the best quality place to safeguard audit objectivity and independence.
The Groups and most effective audits.
policies on non-audit services are set by the Audit Committee and are currently: Having concluded the process in January 2016, the Committee General The auditors are not permitted to provided any non-audit recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young be appointed as the services that they would be prohibited by law from providing due to Groups statutory auditor for the financial year ending 30 April 2017.
It also either the nature of the services or the level of the fee for the recommended that  be appointed to manage the services.
The Board accepted these page 42 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:14 Page 43 recommendations and, accordingly, a resolution proposing the appointment in place in respect of the production of the Annual Report and financial of Ernst & Young as the Groups new statutory auditor will be put to the statements as operating effectively during the year, and was able to shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee provide positive assurance to the Board on the fair, balanced and and Ernst & Young plan that the audit partner will be Mark Harvey.
expect that  will be formally appointed to manage In advising the Board, the Audit Committee noted that: the Group Risk Assurance Function from August 2016.
The Board considers the key risks facing the Group and the Audit The Group has complied with the Statutory Audit Services for Large Committee considered how these link to the description of principal Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender risks and uncertainties in the Annual Report: Processes and Audit Committee Responsibility Order 2014 during the year.
The Board considers the strategy of the Group and its short and longterm objectives: 5.4.
5 Internal auditors The Board receives four-weekly updates on the actual financial The Committee has received several reports from Deloitte, which performance of the Group and significant developments affecting the managed the outsourced Risk Assurance Function internal auditors, Group: detailing the planned schedule of audits as well as tracking key findings and any related material actions to address unsatisfactory results.
The Board receives summaries of significant media coverage relevant Deloitte attended all meetings of the Committee, in addition to meeting to the Group: privately with the Committee without the presence of management.
The Board annually reviews and approves the Groups budget and is The Audit Committee reviews the internal audit plan at least annually and updated at least twice a year on an updated forecast of financial considers whether it is aligned to the key risks of the Group.
The performance for the year: Committee also has the responsibility for making recommendations on The Audit Committee receives updates on developments in accounting the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the standards and other relevant laws and regulations: Group Risk Assurance Function.
There have been no instances of The Audit Committee receives updates on key areas such as treasury, disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to taxation and audit: the Risk Assurance Function.
The Audit Committee and the Board generally have the opportunity to The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the Risk Assurance consider, comment and request changes to the Annual Report and Function on an annual basis.
This assessment includes a consideration of other price-sensitive documents prior to publication: independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the quality of the The preparation of the front end of the Annual Report includes the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the context of the Corporate Communications team, the Company Secretariat, and Group broader sources of risk assurance.
4, the Finance as well as divisional management validating the management of the Risk Assurance Function was tendered during the appropriateness of the material relating to the relevant division.
The year, and it is planned that  will be appointed involvement of these various groups helps ensure the balance, effective from August 2016. completeness and accuracy of the front end: 5.4.
6 Code of Conduct and Speaking Up Policy The Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditors, the internal auditors and management in respect of various matters The Audit Committee reviews compliance with the Groups Code of Conduct and use of the Groups Speaking Up policy, which provides a including the financial statements: mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the conduct of The external auditors report on whether the fair, balanced and the Group or its employees to report those concerns.
The Committee understandable statement is materially consistent with their knowledge ensures that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act of the Group acquired in the course of performing their audit.
proportionately upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee The Audit Committees assessment considered whether: takes a particular interest in any reports of possible improprieties in Appropriate weight had been given to bad news as well as good financial reporting.
news in the Annual Report: All known instances of fraud, theft or similar irregularities affecting the The description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, Group were reported to and considered by the Committee, although there strategy and objectives in the Annual Report was consistent with the were no such matters that were sufficiently material to merit disclosure in Boards understanding: the Annual Report.
The Committee also received and considered updates The principal risks and uncertainties were consistent with the Group on litigation involving the Group, although other than the Twin America risk register: litigation referred to in section 5.4.
1 above and the tax litigation referred to The Annual Report was presented in an understandable way.
4, there were no such matters that were sufficiently material The Audit Committee also noted the established internal control and risk to merit separate disclosure in the Annual Report.
management systems in relation to the process for preparing 5.4.
7 Other activities consolidated financial statements.
The Committee has considered a range of other matters at its three meetings over the last year and received various reports and 5.5 Viability statement presentations as follows: During the year, the Audit Committee examined the requirements of the A presentation was received from the Group Tax Director and the Group revised UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the assessment and Tax Manager on the Groups tax affairs, significant tax accounting reporting of longer-term viability, risk management and internal control.
The Group Treasury team gave a presentation The Audit Committee advised the Board on the statement on the Groups on the Groups treasury affairs and management of treasury risks.
viability included in section 3.12 of this Annual Report, which was underpinned by the consideration of the following points: The Committee considered reports on the planned external audit and The Audit Committee assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions Risk Assurance Function tenders.
made about the Groups prospects, with reference to the strategy and As part of the Committees ongoing training and development, both risk appetite set by the Board: management and the external auditors updated the Committee on The Audit Committee identified which risks, including those described developments in accounting standards, auditing standards, guidance as principal risks and uncertainties in the Annual Report, could for audit committees, the Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate potentially impact the Boards assessment of the Groups viability: Governance Code, legislation affecting the Group more generally and other relevant regulatory developments and guidance.
The Audit Committee reviewed the length of the assessment period: The Committee considered reports from the Audit Committee of Virgin The Audit Committee examined the stress-testing of financial forecasts, Rail Group on matters relevant to that joint venture.
The Groups with particular focus around potential effectiveness of mitigating Finance Director is Chairman of the Virgin Rail Group Audit Committee.
actions, and consideration of the Groups ability to withstand the severe but plausible downside scenarios modelled.
Minutes of the Treasury Committee meetings comprising members of An early draft of the viability statement was presented to the Audit management were shared with the Audit Committee.
Committee and Board in April 2016 for review, with the statement being The Committee reviewed a summary of the Directors expense claims.
finalised at the June 2016 meeting.
8 Fair, Balanced and Understandable 5.6 Committee evaluation The Audit Committee advised the Board on whether it considers the The Committees activities formed part of the internal review of Board Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and to provide the information necessary effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this review are provided for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business in section 4.8.
Overall, the Committee considers that it has continued to model and strategy.
The Committee assessed the controls and processes operate effectively during the year.
