Nomination Committee report When seeking to appoint a new non-executive director, the Nomination 6.1 Introduction from Sir Brian Souter, Committee compiles a shortlist of potential new non-executive directors Stagecoach Group Chairman and Chairman of by taking account of known candidates and candidates suggested by the the Nomination Committee Groups advisors.
I am pleased to introduce my first report as Chairman of the Nomination The search for candidates for non-executive directors during the year Committee, having taken over from Garry Watts who stepped down as and subsequently was undertaken on the basis of search specifications Deputy Chairman of the Company on 1 April 2016 and as Chairman of the that set out the key experience, skills and attributes that had been Committee on 22 April 2016.
I thank Garry for his work in chairing the identified by the Company.
The Company engaged the services of the Committee.
Garry will remain a member of the Committee until he leaves executive search firm, Heidrick & Struggles, to assist with the search.
I would also like to thank Helen Mahy, who There is no other connection between Heidrick & Struggles and the stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 29 February 2016, Company.
for her contribution to the work of the Committee.
I welcome James Prospective candidates were considered by the members of the Bilefield to the Committee, joining Sir Ewan Brown, GarryWatts, Will Nomination Committee and a short-list was proposed to the Board.
Whitehorn and me with effect from 22 April 2016.
Following meetings between the members of the Committee and then The Nomination Committee has an important place in the governance other members of the Board with a number of prospective candidates, structure of the Stagecoach Group.
To be effective, a board needs to James Bilefield, Karen Thomson and Ray OToole were identified by the maintain balance over time, taking account of planned and unplanned full Board as the preferred candidates and appointment terms were changes to the membership of the Board.
As Chairman of the Committee, I offered and accepted.
The full Board also considered and approved the ensure that we regularly review our Board composition and ensure that the appointment of Will Whitehorn to succeed Garry Watts as the mix of skills available is appropriate.
We are aware that talented individuals Companys Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
can come from diverse backgrounds and aim to promote diversity in the Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new recommendations that we make to the Board.
appointments, the expected time commitment is agreed with the We have had a number of changes to our Board over the last year and the director and included in the letter of appointment.
Nomination Committee was key to managing those changes.
During the No director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 year, two of our non-executive directors, Helen Mahy and Phil White, company.
Also, Garry Watts has given notice that he shall The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on resign from the Board at the end of July 2016.
The Nomination Committee the Groups website at led the process that resulted in the appointments of James Bilefield and Karen Thomson during the year, and the announcement since the end of http: www.
com  year of the proposed election of Ray OToole.
Further details of the Committee.
pdf process are set out in this report.
We have reviewed the performance and length of service of our executive 6.4 Board diversity and non-executive directors and are pleased to be able to recommend all of the Directors who wish to continue on the Board for election or re-election The Company believes strongly that its Board benefits from being as appropriate at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
comprised of talented people with a range of perspectives and from differing backgrounds.
The terms of reference of the Committee reflect this in the criteria for identifying suitable candidates for nomination to the Board.
The Company was co-founded by Ann Gloag and throughout its life as a Sir Brian Souter listed company it has had at least one woman on its Board and for Chairman of the Nomination Committee almost all of the time since May 2001, at least two.
There are currently 8 July 2016 ten directors of the Company.
The percentage of women on the Board is 20% and the Board aspires to maintain at least this percentage in the future.
In addition to board 6.2 Composition of the Nomination diversity, the Company believes in promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation, further detail of which is provided in section 1.8.
4 of the Committee Strategic report.
The composition of the Nomination Committee is summarised in section 4.9.
The Committee also invites other non-executive directors to attend its meetings from time to time.
6.5 Succession planning arrangements The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the 6.3 Operation of the Nomination Committee longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure The Nomination Committee keeps under review the overall structure, with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight size and composition of the Board, and is responsible for evaluating the from head office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and its to develop in some of the Groups smaller business units before committees.
Where appropriate, the Committee will suggest adjustments progressing to wider and more responsible roles.
The Group has a history to achieve that balance.
For a proposed appointment, the Committee will of developing good managers who have progressed to take on senior prepare a description of the role and the attributes required of the positions within the Group.
The Group operates a graduate recruitment candidates, which will include a job specification and the estimate of the programme, and some of the graduates recruited have gone on to time commitment expected.
In making any appointment, the Groups become managing directors of individual business units, both in the UK policy on directors having other significant commitments will be taken and North America.
into account and potential candidates will be asked to disclose their The Nomination Committee aims to ensure that appropriate succession other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination Committee meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report and the Board seek to identify new directors and senior managers to any significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The ensure succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without Committee identifies and evaluates suitable candidates and makes significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
The proposals for each appointment, although final appointments are the Committee believes that it is important to develop and promote existing responsibility of the Board as a whole.
The appointments process takes talent from within the organisation.
account of the benefits of diversity of the Board, including gender diversity and in identifying suitable candidates the Committee considers The Chief Executive has established a talent group involving human candidates from a range of backgrounds.
resources, training and other professionals from within the Group.
The page 44 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 16:09 Page 45 talent group is taking a lead role to further enhance the recruitment, retention and development of talented employees throughout the Group.
The Groups Directors bring a broad range of skills to the Board, including general management skills.
In its succession planning, the Committee considers the need to maintain and enhance this wide range of skills with particular emphasis on the following: Health and safety As is explained in section 1.8.
5, safety is at the heart of our business.
The Group has a separate Health, Safety and Environmental Committee and the Nomination Committee considers it appropriate that the Non-Executive Directors collectively have an understanding of health and safety matters.
A number of the Directors bring skills in these areas.
Transport sector The Committee considers it beneficial for the NonExecutive Directors to collectively have experience of transport businesses to bring a sector-specific perspective on matters such as health and safety, transport operations, sector regulation and accounting.
Phil White brought significant bus and rail experience to the Board and Ray OToole will bring fresh insight on the bus and rail sector.
Will Whitehorn brings significant aviation and rail experience and Ann Gloag, as a co-founder of the Group, has significant public transport expertise.
Financial The Committee considers it essential that the NonExecutive Directors collectively have recent and relevant financial experience, in order for the Audit Committee to function effectively but also to bring broader financial insights to the Board.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a serving FTSE 100 finance director, Gregor Alexander brings substantial recent and relevant financial expertise.
Sir Brian Souter, Sir Ewan Brown and Garry Watts are qualified accountants, while James Bilefield has investment banking experience, bringing further financial insight to the Board.
Digital and technology In recent years, the Committee has identified the increasing importance of digital and technological opportunities and risks to the Groups strategy.
It identified a possible skills gap in this respect and considered that it would be desirable to enhance the collective experience of the Non-Executive Directors in those respects.
The appointments of James Bilefield and Karen Thomson to the Board during the year ended 30 April 2016 enhances the Boards skills in these areas.
Listed company The Committee believe it is beneficial for the NonExecutive Directors to have collective experience of other publically listed companies to contribute in the areas of corporate governance, management of potential conflicts, investor relations and regulatory compliance.
Each of Gregor Alexander, Sir Ewan Brown, Karen Thomson, Garry Watts and Will Whitehorn serve or have served on the boards of other publically listed companies.
Regulatory The Group operates in regulated markets and the risk of regulatory change is a principal risk.
The Committee therefore values the Non-Executive Directors insight on regulatory matters.
A number of the directors have significant skills on regulatory matters, including Will Whitehorn from the transport sector, Gregor Alexander from the regulated energy business and Sir Ewan Brown from his experience in banking and financial services.
Given the importance of succession planning, the views of all directors are considered and not just the views of the members of the Committee.
