STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT TEAM Management Team Bill Winters, CBE 55 Andy Halford 57 Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Tracy Clarke 50 Appointed: Tracy was appointed instrumental role in driving our 2013 and became Regional CEO Regional CEO, Europe & Americas CEO, Europe and Americas in compliance and conduct agenda Europe & Americas in October 2015.
October 2015. and the Financial Crime Risk External appointments: Tracy is Mitigation Programme and has led Career: Tracy joined Standard an independent non-executive abroad portfolio including Legal Chartered in 1985 and has held director of Sky plc and sits on the andCompliance, Human anumber of roles in Retail, board of England Netball.
In July Resources, Corporate Affairs Commercial and Corporate Banking, 2016 she became a co-opted andBrand and Marketing.
in addition to Group functions both member of the China-Britain in the UK and in Hong Kong.
More Tracy was appointed as a Director of Business Council board.
recently, Tracy has played an Standard Chartered Bank in January Benjamin Hung 52 Appointed: Ben was appointed banking in the UK and Hong Kong.
External appointments: Ben is a Regional CEO, Greater China Regional CEO, Greater China & During 2008 to 2014, he was the member of the Financial Services &NorthAsia North Asia, on 1 October 2015.
CEO of Standard Chartered Bank Development Council, sits on the Hong Kong Ltd. Ben was Exchange Fund Advisory Committee Career: Ben was previously CEO previously a board member of and is a member of the General for the Greater China Region.
He theHong Kong Airport Authority, Committee of the Hong Kong joined Standard Chartered in 1992 theHong Kong Hospital Authority General Chamber of Commerce.
and has held a number of senior and a Council Member of the management positions spanning HongKong University.
corporate, commercial and retail Anna Marrs 43 Appointed: Anna was appointed Career: Anna joined Standard information and technology Regional CEO, ASEAN & South Asia CEO, Commercial & Private Banking Chartered as Group Head of company, having started her career and CEO, Commercial & Private Banking on 1 October 2015 and is leading on Strategy and Corporate with a hedge fund in New York.
the restructure of an expanded Development in January 2012.
External appointments: None Commercial Clients business and Priorto this she was a partner at the build out of the Private Bank.
McKinsey & Companys Banking Anna took on the additional role of Practice in its Global Banking Regional CEO, ASEAN & South Asia Practice and is a recognised in November 2016. expertin banking strategy.
Prior toMcKinsey she ran a financial Sunil Kaushal 51 Appointed: Sunil was appointed approximately 18 years, holding Executive Officer of SCB Taiwan Regional CEO, Africa & Middle East Regional CEO, Africa & Middle East senior roles across the Wholesale Ltd. Before joining Standard on 1 October 2015.
Prior to this and Consumer Bank.
Sunil has rich Chartered in 1998, Sunil held role, Sunil was Regional CEO, experience across the Groups various banking positions at a SouthAsia.
footprint, having served as the Head number of leading international of Corporate Banking in UAE, Head financial institutions.
Career: Sunil has 28 years of of Originations and Client Coverage banking experience in diverse External appointments: None in Singapore, Global Head Small markets and has been with and Medium Enterprises and New Standard Chartered for Ventures in Singapore and Chief Simon Cooper 49 Appointed: Simon joined the Group client segments.
Simon joined experience in the areas of corporate CEO, Corporate & Institutional as CEO, Corporate & Institutional HSBC in 1989 and held a number of finance, corporate banking and Banking Banking in April 2016. senior roles there, including deputy transaction banking.
chairman and chief executive officer, Career: Simon was previously External appointments: Simon is Middle East and North Africa: chief group managing director and chief a member of the advisory board of executive officer, Korea: and head of executive of Global Commercial the Lee Kong Chian School of Corporate and Investment Banking, Banking at HSBC.
He also has significant experience across our markets and www.
com 61 MANAGEMENT TEAM Karen Fawcett 54 Appointed: Karen was appointed Business Strategy.
Prior to that she industry thought leadership.
She CEO, Retail Banking CEO, Retail Banking on 1 October was a partner in financial services was also a non-executive director Group Head, Brand & Marketing 2015.
Karen is responsible for atBooz Allen & Hamilton, where ofStandard Chartered Bank directing the global strategy and shedrove multi-year change Malaysia Bhd for eight years, transformation of the Retail Banking programmes for leading banks untilOctober 2013. business.
She also assumed global across Asia.
External appointments: Karen responsibility for the Groups Brand Karen transformed Transaction sits on the board of directors of & Marketing in April 2016.
Banking from 2005 until 2014 and INSEAD business school.
Career: Karen joined the Group 16 represented the Group externally in years ago as Group Head of transaction banking regulatory and Mark Smith 55 Appointed: Mark was appointed as Career: Before joining Standard Other roles at HSBC included chief Group Chief Risk Officer Group Chief Risk Officer and a Chartered, Mark was the chief risk operating officer, Global Corporate Director of Standard Chartered officer Europe, Middle East and &Institutional Banking and he has Bank in January 2016.
Mark is Africa and global head, Wholesale worked in London and Hong Kong.
responsible for managing Credit, Credit and Traded Risk for HSBC.
External appointments: None Market and Operational Risk across He has had a long and successful the Group and ensuring the broader career at HSBC, having joined risk framework is effective.
He also Midland Bank as a graduate trainee has responsibility for the Groups prior to its acquisition by HSBC.
David Fein 56 Appointed: David joined the theGroups flagship philanthropic financial crime and a track record Group General Counsel Groupin September 2013 as Group effort dedicated to eliminating offorming and supporting General Counsel, advising the Board avoidable blindness.
and the Court of the Bank on all Career: David has held various External appointments: None material legal matters.
He oversees senior roles in the US Government, Standard Chartereds Legal including as US Attorney for the function, Group Corporate District of Connecticut and as Secretariat and Shared Investigative Associate Counsel to the President.
David also serves as He has extensive experience fighting Chairman of Seeing is Believing, Dr Michael Gorriz 56 Appointed: Michael was appointed Career: As an industry award group and has spent many years Group Chief Information Officer Group Chief Information Officer winner, Michael joined from Daimler working across our footprint.
when he joined Standard Chartered AG where he was most recently vice External appointments: None in July 2015. president and CIO with responsibility for the smooth operation of all Daimler systems and the management of IT projects globally.
For the past 14 years, he has held various CIO roles within the Daimler Doris Honold 50 Appointed: Doris was appointed Career: Doris joined the Group in over global responsibility for Group Chief Operating Officer Group Chief Operating Officer in March 2007, and has served as the Dresdner Kleinworts market October 2015, supporting the Group Group Head of Market Risk and the riskfunction.
Chief Executive in defining and Chief Operating Officer for External appointments: None executing the business strategy, Wholesale Banking.
Doris started reinforcing exemplary control and her career at Dresdner Bank in governance, ensuring strategic Frankfurt.
She held several market functional alignment and enabling risk leadership roles in Frankfurt, efficient business growth.
Tokyo and London, before taking Pam Walkden 56 Appointed: Pam was appointed as Audit, Group Head of ALM and onthe role of interim Group Group Head, Human Resources Group Head, Human Resources in Group Treasurer, where she was ChiefRisk Office from July 2015 April 2016. responsible for the management of toFebruary 2016 before the Groups balance sheet.
In 2014, assumingtherole of Group Career: Pam joined the Group in she became Group Business Head, Head, Human Resources.
1991 and has held a number of Regions working closely with the keyroles across the organisation External appointments: None Global Business Heads and including Group Head of Corporate Regional CEOs.
She then took Affairs, Group Head of Internal New Management Team member appointed As announced on 30 January 2017, Tracey McDermott, CBE, will join the Group and the Management Team as Group Head, Corporate, Public and Regulatory Affairs with effect from 20 March 2017.
