CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee The Committees composition and role The Committee members have detailed and relevant experience and bring an independent mindset to their role.
DavidConner joined the Committee on 1 January 2016 bringing with him significant global banking experience, strong risk management credentials and an in-depth knowledge of Asian markets.
The Board is satisfied that Christine Hodgson has recent relevant financial experience and that all the other Committee members Naguib Kheraj have board experience and knowledge Chair of the Audit Committee of financial reporting and international business.
Details of their experience canbe found on pages 57 to 59.
All the Committee Dear Shareholder I can confirm that the information the members are independent.
Committee has received has been As Chairman of the Audit Committee, Iam balanced, appropriate and timely, and The overlapping membership between pleased to present the Audit Committees has enabled the Committee to fulfil its theCommittee and the Board Risk, report for the year ended 31 December remit in ensuring that the interests of Remuneration, Brand, Values and Conduct 2016.
In addition to the disclosure the Groups shareholders are properly and Board Financial Crime Risk Committees requirements relating to audit committees protected in relation to financial reporting is one of the mechanisms for ensuring that under the UK Corporate Governance Code and internal control.
the linkage between the Audit Committee 2014, the following report sets out the and other Board committees avoids gaps or areas of significant and particular focus for unnecessary duplications between the remit the Committee and its activities over the of each committee.
course of the year, as well the review undertaken on the effectiveness of the In discharging its responsibilities, the Groups statutory auditor KPMG LLP Committee has been mindful of the KPMG and the assurance the Committee recommendation as set out in the Financial Naguib Kheraj has sought and been provided with Reporting Councils guidance for Audit Chair of the Audit Committee concerning the resourcing of the Group Committees 2016.
The Committees role Finance, Group Internal Audit and isto review, on behalf of the Board, the Compliance functions.
It is also responsible for oversight and advice to This report provides an overview of the theBoard on matters relating to financial significant issues the Audit Committee reporting and has exercised oversight assessed and the Committees opinion ofthework undertaken by Group onthe Annual Report when viewed as a Compliance, Group InternalAudit and whole, including how it has assessed the the Groups statutory auditor, KPMG.
narrative reporting in the front of the report to accurately reflect the financial Financial reporting statements inthe back.
The primary role of the Committee in Management reporting to the Committee relation to financial reporting is to monitor from across the business has provided the integrity of the Groups published theopportunity for the Committee to financial statements and formal challenge, discuss and seek assurance announcements relating to the Groups from management and enabled the financial performance, reviewing significant Committee to provide an independent financial reporting judgements and perspective.
accounting issues contained in them.
74 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION The Committee has discussed impairment Committee composition with management and the auditors, and considers the provisions held within each Scheduled Ad-hoc ofthe client segments to be appropriate.
meetings meetings N Kheraj Chair 6 6 1 1 Valuation of financial instruments The Committee receives reports and D P Conner appointed 1 January 2016 6 6 1 1 valuation updates at each reporting period, 1 C M Hodgson 5 6 1 1 detailing the process undertaken by Valuation Control, a unit independent of the Dr B E Grote 6 6 1 1 business.
The Committee is made aware of the amounts reserved to cater for model Directors who stepped down during 2016 and valuation risks, which cover both Level 2 Dr L H Thunell stepped down 31 January 2016 0 1 N A 2 and Level 3 assets: and the significant valuation judgements in respect of Level 3 Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2016 included: instruments.
Where the measurement of fair Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Chief Financial Officer: Group Chief Risk value is more judgemental in respect of Officer: Group Head of Internal Audit: Group General Counsel: Group Head, Compliance: Level 3 assets, these are valued based Group Company Secretary: Group Chief Information Officer: Regional Chief Executive Officer, onmodels that use a significant degree Africa and Middle East: Group statutory auditors.
As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee has private The Committee was satisfied with the member-only meetings.
reports and valuation updates provided.
Further details on financial instruments are 1.
Christine Hodgson was unable to attend one scheduled committee meeting due to prior commitments set out in note 13 on pages 227 to 236.
Lars Thunell was unable to attend one scheduled committee meeting due to prior commitments The Committee has written terms of reference that can be viewed at sc.
Goodwill impairment testing They include all the material points recommended under the UK Corporate Governance Code The Group undertakes its annual around the individual and portfolio GroupFinance has oversight and is assessment of goodwill impairment each impairment provisions.
They covered all responsible forthe consolidation of financial year and receives a report outlining the client and geographic segments and information from country reporting teams basis of the assumptions and forecasts included reviews of: for entities within the Group, the application used for determining cash flows, including of accounting policies and practices, Retail Banking, where provisions are any change from the prior year, headroom including key estimates and judgements, assessed more on a collective basis availability and sensitivities of the forecasts and providing adequate accounting and other than for mortgages.
Trend analyses to possible changes in assumptions.
During financial records over reporting of published of Portfolio Impairment Provisions against the year the Committee is updated on financial statements and formal Expected Loss was provided as were movements in assumptions and sensitivities announcements relating to the Group.
The to ensure that at reporting dates the The Group Finance team and country Committee continued to gain comfort goodwill is reasonably stated.
reporting teams perform analytical from the fact that the Retail loan book is The total goodwill carried on balance sheet procedures, ensuring compliance with predominantly secured and the loan-toas at 31 December 2016 is $3,456 million accounting standards, legal and regulatory value ratio on the mortgage book remains and, based on the review of forecasts and matters in relation to financial reporting low, at 49 percent assumptions by management, the andinteract on a regular basis to evaluate, Corporate & Institutional Banking and Committee considers that, other than noted manage and resolve relevant matters Commercial Banking assumptions below, the headroom available is sufficient relating to financial reporting, including underpinning possible recovery options to support the carrying value.
The significant accounting policies and financial and related cashflows Committee agreed with the impairment reporting judgements and changes charges as at 31 December 2016 of inestimates.
All financial information For certain significant exposures, $166 million detailed in note 9 and note 17. submitted by country reporting teams particularly those exposures in the iscertified by the in-country Chief highrisk credit grade and managed These are also considered to be key areas FinancialOfficer.
byGroup Special Asset Management that KPMG focused its work.
The GSAM, the Committee has been Committee received reports and updates The Committee is satisfied that the Groups briefedon business plans, management from KPMG and is satisfied the issues have accounting policies and practices are assessment of the recoveries and been addressed during the year.
appropriate, including significant accounting collateral available estimates and judgements made.
During the year, the Committee was Trends in early alert accounts provided with updates on finance projects During 2016, the Committee has considered wereshared and the concentration that have arisen as a result of accounting or on behalf of the Board, the Q1 and Q3 ofexposures in relevant sectors regulatory requirements.
The major project Interim Management Statements.
andcountries relates to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In 2016, the Committee paid particular effective from 1 January 2018.
In summary, The Committee also assessed the external attention to impairment of loans and these reports considered: macroeconomic conditions, geo-political advances, valuation of financial instruments, movements in footprint markets and areas Project governance across and goodwill impairment testing.
identified in discussions with the Board Risk multidisciplinary areas combining the Committee.
There is some common skills of finance, risk and IT, key risks, Impairment of loans and advances membership across the Audit Committee and progress against implementation.
Throughout the year the Committee and the Board Risk Committee, with the Reports to ensure compliance in respect received information on the quantum of Chair of the Audit Committee being a of the implementation requirements and impairment, specific names and industries member of the Board Risk Committee evaluate managements progress in under impairment review.
These reports are andvice versa.
This synergy facilitates implementing and transitioning to the from management at each reporting period, anassessment of current adequacy of impairment requirements of IFRS 9 detailing the composition of the loan book, provisions, and affords the Audit Committee A paper issued by the Global Public provisioning levels, cover ratio by client a forward-looking view of potential risks and Policy Committee GPPC to bank Audit segment and the judgement exercised their impacts.
com 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committee Chairs, to report on progress Key judgements and the significant issues Discussed the risks covered by the KPMG against implementation milestones of reported are consistent with the disclosures audit plan and has sought and received IFRS 9 impairment requirements by banks of key estimation uncertainties and critical assurance that these risks have been and provide an update on key industry judgements set out in the financial properly addressed in the audit strategy developments in the period statements on page 207.
As part of and plan, which have been reviewed by theCommittees year-end discussions, the Committee.
The Committee has The Committee discussed the key areas consideration was given to the Going enquired, and is satisfied, that KPMG has offocus of the finance function in 2016 and concern and Viability statements, allocated sufficient resources to address is satisfied with the adequacy of resources furtherdetails of which can be found these risks.
The Committee has sought including organisational change, headcount, onpages 124 to 125. and received assurance that no undue Group reporting technical and leadership pressure has been asserted on the level capability, projects and investment and Fair, balanced and understandable of audit fees to ensure that there is no risk processes and controls.
to audit work being conducted effectively The Committee has reviewed and monitored The Committee is satisfied that the Group and independently the appropriateness and completeness of Finance function is adequately resourced the published financial statements of the Analysed and discussed the results of the tomaintain the Groups external reporting Group.
The Committee has paid particular inspection of KPMG by the FRCs Audit obligations and that the qualifications, attention to the formal announcements Quality Review Team.
The discussions experience, training and budget are sufficient.
relating to the Groups financial performance, gave no cause for concern regarding the significant accounting policies and significant FRCs observations Aircraft and shipping financial reporting judgements and changes Performed its annual review of the The Committee discussed and considered in estimates made by the Group.
On behalf performance and effectiveness of KPMG.
the change in the Group revised estimates of the Board, the Committee considered, This review includes an assessment of for both the useful lives and residual value and has satisfied itself, that the processes their independence and objectivity.
The estimates relating to the aviation and and procedures in place ensure that the review was performed jointly by Group shipping assets refer to note 18 on page Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a Internal Audit and Group Finance and 247 and concluded that the change whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, took the form of a structured survey wasappropriate.
and provides the information necessary for which was sent to Committee members, shareholders to assess the Groups position the chairs of the Group subsidiary audit Restructuring provisions and performance, business model and committees, the Groups Management strategy and the business risks it faces.
The Committee received and reviewed Team, country chief executive officers, reports with respect to the restructuring The statement is underpinned by the regional country chief financial officers, charges.
We continued, like 2015, to review Committees, and the Boards, belief that members of the Group Finance the extent to which restructuring provisions the Annual Report and Accounts does not Leadership Team and country heads were recognised and measured and exhibit any bias: that all important elements ofaudit.
The results of the survey were remained consistent with the 2015 Strategic have been disclosed: and that the discussed by the Committee.
The Committee reviewed and descriptions of the Groups business as itwas felt that KPMG is considered to consider Managements judgements and setout in the strategic report are consistent beeffective, objective and independent assumptions and are satisfied there are with those used for financial reporting in the inits role as Group statutory auditor reasonable, including related disclosures.
In making its In accordance with the Auditing Practices assessment, the Committee applies its Board requirement, the lead audit Taxation accumulated knowledge and experience engagement partner was rotated in 2015, from Board meetings, engagement with The Committee discussed the tax charge having held the role for five years.
The lead management over the year and from access with Management and noted the effects of audit engagement partner has a to management performance information.
anumber of components that result in an background of auditing banks and overall charge to the income statement.
understands the markets in which the Group statutory auditor TheCommittee reviewed and considered Group operates.
Managements judgements and assumptions The Committee is responsible for the The Company complies with the Statutory with respect to tax risks and are satisfied appointment of the Group statutory auditor Audit Services for Large Companies Market these are reasonable and adequate and has overseen the work undertaken by Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive disclosure in the financial statements has KPMG throughout the year.
As Committee Tender Processes and Audit Committee been made.
Chair and as part of his visits to the Groups Responsibilities Order 2014.
A tender for markets, Naguib met with the local audit audit services was last conducted in 2013, Disclosures partner in Kenya and Taiwan.
In addition, following which KPMG were appointed as KPMGs local regional partners from Africa, The Committee has reviewed the clarity and the Groups statutory auditor.
Before the Hong Kong, Korea and the US attended completeness of the proposed disclosures audit tender took place, KPMG had been the Committee meetings.
Such interaction made within the published financial Groups statutory auditor for over 25 years enables the Committee to gain greater statements, checked that they are set and has regularly rotated its lead partner.
In insight of the challenges faced in the properly in context, and discussed the line with the new EU legislation in respect of Groups markets from a statutory audit proposed disclosures within this years statutory audit services, Directive 2006 43 perspective and provides the local regional Annual Report and Accounts arising from: EC which amends the Statutory Audit partners with the opportunity to provide Directive became applicable throughout the Alignment to best practice through the theCommittee with their assessment of the EU on 17 June 2016.
In accordance with application of the BBA Code for Financial Groups control systems and infrastructure this Directive, it is acknowledged that it is Reporting Disclosure in their markets, the quality of the Groups mandatory for the Group to change the management from a control perspective Bilateral discussions between the UK Groups statutory auditor for the year ended and a benchmark of the Groups control Prudential Regulation Authority PRA 31 December 2021. environment against local and international andthe BBA, which inform best practice peers.
Such discussions also provided the included in the BBA code noted above Non-audit services Committee with insight into local regulatory The themes raised by, and specific developments and the Groups standing The Committee sets, reviews and monitors comments from, the Financial Reporting with local regulators.
The Committee also: the appropriateness of the provision of Council FRC on aspects of UK reporting non-audit services, and applied the Groups policy on the award of non-audit services 76 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION tothe external auditor, while taking into Audit, business and or regional Regulations that came into effect in account the relevant ethical guidance.
management has been invited to attend July2016.
Thepolicy is designed to ensure the Group Committee meetings to provide updates The Committee has also sought and mitigates the risk of a conflict of interest that onthe steps being taken to enhance the received assurance concerning the Groups would compromise KPMGs independence control environment and address internal compliance with the Volcker Rule the Rule.
or perceived independence from the Group, audit findings.
As a result of internal audit The Rule refers to part of the Dodd-Frank and sets out the criteria for when the findings and at the Committees request, Wall Street Reform and Consumer Committees prior written approval is management have attended Committee Protection Act and prohibits the Group from required.
The Committee is satisfied that meetings to present specific deep dives i engaging in proprietary trading: and ii allthe requirements have been met.
intothe control environment in Africa, the acquiring or retaining directly or indirectly reasons for overdue remediation of In 2016 the Group spent $3.6 million on as principal, any equity, partnership or other information technology audit findings and non-audit services provided by KPMG.
The ownership interest in or sponsoring of a the Groups approach to managing the risk FRC published its Revised Ethical Standard Covered Fund.
In addition, the Rule requires of third-party outsourcing.
for Auditors in June 2016 and provided the Group to establish, maintain and newguidelines on services permitted or In addition to reporting to the Audit enforce an enhanced compliance program prohibited by auditors.
In addition to new Committee, Group Internal Audit provides reasonably designed to ensure and monitor restrictions, a cap on non-audit services the Board Risk Committee with a summary compliance with the Rule.
was introduced and will first apply to the of Group Internal Audits appraisal of As Standard Chartered Banks New York Group in the year ending 31 December controls across key risks subject to the branch is a qualifying foreign banking 2020.
Under the cap, total fees from Board Risk Committees oversight and the organization regulated under the US Bank non-audit services provided cannot exceed Board Financial Crime Risk Committee with Holding Company Act BHCA the 70 per cent of the average audit fee from updates on Group Internal Audits work in Committee has received updates regarding the previous three consecutive financial relation to Financial Crime Risk and its views the remediation work being undertaken to years.
There is no requirement to apply on the Groups control environment.
ensure the Group is fully compliant with retrospectively in 2020: however, if applied As part of KPMGs audit certain controls are theBHCA.
retrospectively the Group would be in tested in relation to financial reporting and compliance with current year fees being financial statement preparation.
Typically Speaking Up programme less than 25 per cent of the average audit this involves a detailed walkthrough of the fee from the previous three consecutive The Committee has spent time discussing front to back processing of transactions financial years.
the enhancement of the Groups Speaking andidentifying key controls implemented by Up programme in order to comply with new Further details on non-audit services provided the Group to assess that transactions are Whistleblowing Rule introduced by the by KPMG can be found in note 37 on page 272, processed completely and accurately.
and the Groups approach to non-audit Groups UK lead regulators the Prudential services can be found on page 130 KPMG also gained an understanding and Regulatory Authority PRA and the FCA tested key controls implemented by the that came into effect on 7 September 2016.
Oversight of internal controls Group for judgemental areas including The Groups Speaking Up programme was valuation of loans and financial instruments The Committee has considered reports in re-launched on 31 August 2016, linked held at fair value.
The Committee received respect of the control environment in the directly with the Group Code of Conduct areport setting out KPMGs observations Groups businesses.
A key feature ofthe Groups controls arising from KPMGs of the re-launch involves leveraging the The Committee discussed control audit for the year ended 31 December 2015 Groups initiative to promote Speaking Up environment issues, their root causes and and observations made in the current year.
#knowtherules as a critical outcome for managements responses and remediation The control points raised related principally good conduct, and creating the right activities.
On a regular basis, the Group to reinforcing or enhancing existing environment.
Internal Audit Report provides the procedures and did not suggest any Committee with Group Internal Audits view fundamental concerns over the control Speaking Up management information has of the system of internal controls across all framework or procedures.
The Committee been regularly provided to the Committee.
risk types, business and country functions.
also considered managements responses This includes year-to-date volumes relative In addition, the Committee is provided with to the findings together with proposed to 2015, any identifiable themes arising from a summary of items for monitoring by the timelines for addressing the findings.
Speaking Up reports, the average time to Committee.
This summary highlights the complete an investigation, the number of The Committee has also discussed most significant matters being monitored by ongoing investigations and the number of operational risk.
There is an overlap Group Internal Audit and items of thematic substantiated and non-substantiated cases.
between the work of the Audit Committee interest which have arisen as part of audits and the Board Risk Committee as the Board and which warrant the Committees Non-financial crime compliance, Risk Committee has considered issues attention.
At the Committees request the regulatory government investigations relating to operational risk management.
Group Chief Information Officer attended and significant cross-border and The Committee has considered KPMGs aCommittee meeting to discuss the action major disputes Management Letter and its observations of being taken to address outstanding IT the Groups controls.
The Audit Committee The Committee has been provided with related audit findings.
has received an update on the work updates on non-financial crime compliance To complement the Group Internal Audit undertaken by the Group to pursue the regulatory government investigations RGIs Report, the Committee is also provided with recommendations made by KPMG to facing the Group.
RGIs relating to financial the Group Internal Audit Information Report, further embed risk appetite and the crime compliance are reported separately which provides the Committee with operational risk framework, further details to the Board Financial Crime Risk additional and more granular information on ofwhich can be found in the Risk Committee.
The Committee has also significant areas.
It contains management Management Approach on page 147. received updates on significant cross actions to address items included in the border orders and major disputes facing The Committee has discussed the work summary, an overview of the audits the Group.
underway within the Group concerning completed over the course of the year and third party supplier and outsourcing overdue high-risk issues identified in audits Interaction with regulators riskmanagement.
since the last Group Internal Audit On an annual basis the Committee meets Information Report to the Committee.
The Committee received regular reports on with the PRA.
The purpose of such the status of the programme to handle the During 2016, for those most significant meetings is to enable discussion between implementation of the EU Market Abuse matters being monitored by Group Internal the Committee and the PRA without www.
com 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE thepresence of management on operational risks identified in the Groups Committee effectiveness review non-prudentially focused matters.
As Operational Risk Framework, the In keeping with the approach to Committee Committee Chair, Naguib also met local Committee has sought and received effectiveness reviews adopted by other assurance that Group Compliance has regulators in the UAE and Pakistan as part Board committees, in 2016 an internally discharged its risk ownership obligations of overseas visits to the Groups markets.
facilitated effectiveness review was through the maintenance of high-quality conducted.
This review, facilitated by the Group Internal Audit and Group compliance standards supported by a Group Corporate Secretariat, involved each Compliance dynamic risk management and assessment committee member and permanent structure.
As Committee Chair, Naguib The Committee has reviewed the resourcing attendee providing their thoughts on the hasmet and engaged with the Compliance and proposed work plans for both the Committees effectiveness.
The feedback teams in Kenya, Uganda, Pakistan, the Group Internal Audit and Group Compliance was then formally discussed by the UAEand the US and also separately functions, and is satisfied that both are Committee and an action plan designed to metthe Regional Head Compliance, appropriate in light of the proposed areas of address the key observations.
Americas, and the Taiwan Country focus, expertise and skill that are required HeadofCompliance when he travelled The Committee is viewed as being effective, within both functions, given the current tothesemarkets.
with observations from the review including regulatory environment.
The Committee is the effectiveness of debate and discussions also satisfied with the independence of the The Committee has reviewed the at meetings, the benefit derived from the Group Internal Audit function.
Throughout functionalagenda and annual plan private sessions between the Committee the year, Naguib has had regular meetings forGroup Compliance.
with Group Internal Audit, Compliance and with the Group Head of Internal Audit and KPMG, Committee pre-meetings that assist the Group Head, Compliance and has also Linkages between the Committee and in focusing discussion on key matters and met with the Regional Head, Audit, Europe subsidiary Board audit committees the broad range of topics covered.
& Americas and also met with Group While being mindful of the need to not Managements observations included Internal Audit teams in Kenya, Uganda, adversely impact the independence of the thegood level of challenge received, the Pakistan, the UAE and the US.
Groups subsidiary audit committees, there positive interaction between the Committee The Committee monitored and assessed are documented processes in place that and management, the right level of enquiry the role and effectiveness of the Group define the linkages between, and roles of, by the Committee and excellent Internal Audit function.
This included the Audit Committee and the audit engagement from the Committee reviewing and monitoring Group Internal committees of subsidiary companies.
Audits progress against its annual audit Another way in which the Committee strives Areas for increased Committee plan, and the review and monitoring of to ensure appropriate linkages between the effectiveness going forward included the post-audit actions.
The Committee also Committee and the Groups subsidiary audit need to guard against veering into conducted its annual review and approval committees is by holding an annual call management responsibilities as a result of hosted by Naguib as Committee Chair and ofGroup Internal Audits Charter.
too much information and detail being attended by the chairs of the subsidiary The PRA undertook a review of the Groups provided in the management information to audit committees.
In 2016, the Group Head Internal Audit function in Q4 2016.
The the Committee and further enhancements of Internal Audit, Group Head, Compliance, review encompassed analysis of information to the commentary in Group Internal Audit Deputy Group Chief Financial Officer and requested as well as meetings with senior Reports on management actions, thereby lead audit partner of the Groups statutory members of staff and the attendance by the providing a better account of the materiality auditor also participated in the call.
Thiscall PRA at a Committee meeting.
The purpose of audit findings in the context of broader provides the opportunity to share, among of the review was to assess the design and control environment, so as to assist other things, the Committees priorities for effectiveness of Group Internal Audit as a Committee members with calibrating the year ahead and to discuss ways in third line of defence.
which the linkages between the subsidiary discussed the findings of the PRAs review audit committees and the Committee can and will receive progress reports from be further strengthened and enhanced Group Internal Audit against these over the without comprising independence.
Committee Chair, Naguib also met with With the exception of the year-end focused theindependent non-executive directors meeting, at every scheduled meeting the ofStandard Chartered Bank Taiwan and Committee receives a Compliance Report.
members ofits audit committee and with Over the course of the year, the format of members ofthe Groups Malaysian this report to the Committee has been subsidiary audit committee when enhanced.
In addition to describing the theyvisited London.
work being undertaken by Compliance and any significant compliance and regulatory Ongoing training and development risks facing the Group together with the key All new Committee members receive an actions being taken to address or mitigate extensive, formal and tailored induction these risks, the report also includes updates programme that builds upon their from the business compliance and central experience and covers particular areas compliance teams.
In particular, the offocus of the Committee.
Existing Committee received updates on the Committee members have ongoing training transition of the Banking Reform Act the and development programmes which in Act programme to a business-as-usual 2016 included in-depth training sessions environment following the Act coming into onIFRS 9, which replaces IAS 39 Financial effect on 7 March 2016.
The report also Instruments on 1 January 2018.
The provides material updates by the Groups implications of the change are set out regional compliance teams, in particular, innote 1 Accounting policies on pages 207 any significant developments with the to 208.
Groups regulators in Hong Kong, India, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, China, the USand the UK.
As Group Compliance isthe risk owner of a number of the top 78 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
