CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board Financial Crime RiskCommittee Committee composition The Committees membership is comprised of five independent non-executive directors and four independent external advisor members who are neither directors nor employees of the Group but who have skills relevant to the Committee and whose expert input is valuable.
These four external advisor members have been appointed to support the Committee.
They provide a valuable external perspective and have extensive experience in counter-terrorism, Gay Huey Evans, OBE cyber security and international security.
Chair of the Board Financial Crime RiskCommittee More details on the independent non-executive directors can be found in their biographies on pages 57 to 59.
Dear Shareholder The biographies of the independent This is my first report as Chair of the Board Over the next 12 months, the Committee external advisor members can be found onour website using the following link Financial Crime Risk Committee, having will continue to exercise oversight of the sc.
com  succeeded Simon Lowth on 1 August delivery of the Groups Financial Crime 2016.
Sincere thanks are due to Simon for Risk Mitigation Programme and the Committee activities his leadership as Chair of the Committee improvement of new controls designed since its inception in 2015. toenhance the Groups financial crime The Committee, on behalf of the Board, compliance capabilities.
provides oversight of the effectiveness of This report provides an overview of the key the Groups policies, procedures, systems, areas of focus for the Committee and the controls and assurance arrangements Committees activities over the course designed to identify, assess, manage, of2016.
monitor, prevent and or detect money To assist the Committee in discharging laundering, non-compliance with sanctions, itsresponsibilities, in addition to updates bribery, corruption, and tax fraud and Gay Huey Evans provided by management on the Groups taxevasion.
Financial Crime Risk Mitigation Chair of the Board Financial Crime So as to assist the Committee in Programme, management presented deep RiskCommittee discharging these responsibilities, regular dives from across all of the Groups four reports and updates are provided to the client segments Private Banking, Retail Committee by the Global Head Financial Banking, Corporate & Institutional Banking Crime Compliance, the Group General and Commercial Banking on financial Counsel, and the Group Head of Internal crime risk and the steps being taken Audit.
The Global Head of Financial Crime tomitigate these.
These deep dives Compliance makes regular reports to the assistedthe Committee in understanding Committee in his capacity as the Groups the progress being made in achieving Money Laundering Reporting Officer theGroups financial crime MLRO.
This has included the Group complianceobjectives.
Money Laundering Reporting Officers Such reporting by management has Report and the Global Risk Assessment.
provided the Committee with an The Group General Counsel provides opportunity to challenge, discuss periodic reports to the Committee on any anddebate with management.
significant regulatory or government investigations which have taken place relating to financial crime compliance.
90 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION compliance global risk assessment, the Committee composition Committee has received updates from management from a number of the Groups Scheduled Ad-hoc markets including Germany, India, Malaysia, meetings Meetings the UAE and Zimbabwe, and the Committee G Huey Evans, OBE Chair 4 4 2 2 will continue to receive additional country appointed to the Committee on 1 March 2016 updates in 2017. and as Committee Chair on 1 August 2016 Over the course of the year, the Committee D P Conner appointed on 1 January 2016 4 4 2 2 has undertaken a number of deep dives across all of the Groups four client 1 C M Hodgson 4 4 1 2 segments.
These deep dives have enabled 1 the Committee to gain further insight and to N Kheraj 4 4 1 2 discuss the action being taken across the J M Whitbread appointed on 1 August 2016 2 2 1 1 Groups businesses to address the highest inherent financial crime risks identified within Directors who stepped down during 2016 the business portfolios and the key deliverables to achieve and sustain a S J Lowth Chair stepped down on 31 July 2016 2 2 1 1 reduction in residual financial crime risk.
Dr L H Thunell stepped down on 31 January 2016 N A N A The Committee has considered, discussed and recommended to the Board the External advisor members Groups risk appetite statements in relation L Campos 4 4 2 2 to financial crime risk.
The Committee has received an update on B H Khoo 4 4 2 2 the status of the Groups compliance with 1 Sir Iain Lobban 4 4 1 2 the following four intergovernmental client tax information regimes: 2 F Townsend 3 4 2 2 The US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2016 included: Act FATCA provisions Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Chief Risk Officer: Group Company The Common Reporting Standards the Secretary: Group General Counsel: Global Head, Financial Crime Compliance and Group associated impact of which on the Group Head, Compliance is determined in large by the nature of the As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee has private operations in a particular jurisdiction.
current impact jurisdictions for the Group 1.
Unable to attend an ad hoc meeting called at short notice due to prior commitments are Germany, Guernsey, India, Jersey, 2.
Unable to attend one scheduled Committee meeting due to ill health South Africa, South Korea and the UK The Committee has written terms of reference that can be viewed at The intergovernmental agreements sc.
com termsofreference between the UK and the Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories Regular reports from the Group Head of duediligence processes, transaction CDOT Internal Audit provide the Committee with monitoring and other core controls.
updates on Group Internal Audits GIA work Reporting obligations to the Canada In connection with the New York in relation to financial crime risks and GIAs Revenue Agency Department of Financial Services NYDFS views on the Groups control environment.
2012 Consent Order, an independent The Group FATCA Programme which was The Committee has provided ongoing monitor the Monitor was appointed.
As established in 2011 in preparation for the Board-level oversight of: part of the final settlement reached with the legislation which came into effect in July NYDFS on 19 August 2014, the Monitors 2014 to cover overall project management The Groups Financial Crime Risk appointment was extended for a further two and to ensure the Groups readiness to Mitigation Programme which is a years.
In 2016, the Monitor attended one of meet regulatory expectations arising Group-wide initiative to identify and the Committees meetings as an observer from FATCA has transitioned into a embed best practices in the field of and the Committee has received and business-as-usual environment.
financial crime compliance discussed the observations made in the To ensure ongoing compliance, the Group The US Supervisory Remediation Monitors fourth compliance review report has built a control framework across Group Programme US SRP which provides received towards the end of 2016.
Compliance and Group Tax, comprising the strategic oversight to the activities related Although the Committee has made some Client Tax Information Compliance team to the US obligations and related positive observations concerning progress and Customer Tax Information Reporting improvement actions under the Groups made, there remains additional work that is team.
For second line assurance, as 2012 and 2014 settlement agreements required to be done in implementing outlined in the Groups Operational Risk 1 with the US Authorities and the broader significant changes to processes and Framework, the risk owners are Compliance programme of enhancements being technology.
This agreement between for due diligence and monitoring changes introduced across the Group in relation management and the Committee in terms of in circumstance and Tax for withholding tofinancial crime compliance including the work still left to do indicates the Groups and reporting.
those relating specifically to customer commitment and capability to deliver The Committee has also looked at the asustainable control environment.
adequacy of resourcing of the Group teams The Committee has discussed emerging responsible for sanctions and anti-money 1.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of financial crime compliance risks and sought laundering systems and controls, and the Financial Services NYDFS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FED, the New York County and received assurance from management strength of leadership of the Financial Crime District Attorneys Office DANY, the United States on how the Group intends to address such Compliance team.
Department of Justice DOJ and the Office of Foreign risks.
As part of the 2016 financial crime Assets Control OFAC www.
com 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Both Gay Huey Evans as the Chair of the in2016.
During those visits, they met with Committee and her predecessor, Simon senior executives and members of the localfinancial crime compliance teams, Lowth, have had regular meetings with the andthe regional and country chief Group General Counsel, and the Global executiveofficers.
Head, Financial Crime Compliance to discuss financial crime risk outside the The external advisor members also scheduled Committee meetings in 2016. attended a cyber project working group meeting to provide expertise for a paper to Throughout the year, the Board has be presented to the Board on the Groups received regular updates from the overall operating model for managing cyber Committee Chair on the Committees risk.
External guest speakers also presented activities and areas of focus.
to both the external advisor members and The Committee has welcomed the effective the independent non-executive director materials produced by the Group through Committee members.
the Whole Story campaign, which emphasises that combating financial crime Committee linkages is at the heart of a good banking business, can prevent harmful human consequences Where there is a perceived overlap of and is integral to the culture of the Group.
responsibilities between the Committee and other Board committees, such as the Board The Committee provides oversight of the Risk Committee, the Audit Committee or Groups efforts towards developing a more the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee, suitable and effective model for fighting the respective Committee Chairs have financial crime.
For example, the Committee thediscretion to agree which Committee supports the Groups membership and isthe most appropriate to address that participation in the UKs Joint Money responsibility.
There is clear mapping of Laundering Intelligence taskforce, such overlapping items to ensure each apartnership between the UK government, Committee focuses on its area of law enforcement agencies and banks, responsibility.
The linkages between which uses a collaborative approach to Committees are further enhanced identifying and reporting money laundering.
Induction, ongoing training and Committee effectiveness review development The Committee undertook an internally As part of the process of Gay Huey Evans facilitated effectiveness review in the becoming Committee Chair, a thorough second half of 2016. handover with the former Chair, Simon Lowth, took place.
Gays induction as This review, facilitated by the Group Committee Chair built upon the already Corporate Secretariat, involved each existing induction programme following committee member and permanent herappointment as a member of the attendees providing their thoughts on the Committee on 1 March 2016.
Committees effectiveness in response to specific questions.
The feedback was then Since joining the Committee on 1 January formally discussed by the Committee and 2016 and 1 August 2016 respectively, an action plan designed to address the DavidConner and Jasmine Whitbread keyobservations.
havecommenced an induction programme relevant to the work undertaken by the While the overall feedback was that the Committee.
As part of Jasmines induction Committee was effective and included and prior to joining the Committee, positive feedback concerning the inclusion sheattended a Committee meeting of country deep dives that enable members asanobserver.
to hear directly from country management on financial crime compliance remediation Ongoing engagement programmes efforts and the meeting structure including havebeen provided to the Committees the updates from the MLRO and Group independent non-executive members and General Counsel, there were suggestions advisor members.
Such programmes have on ways the Committee could improve.
included a two-day learning event covering These suggestions have been factored into the Groups correspondent banking an agreed action plan for 2017. academies, anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering and the Groups Areas for enhanced effectiveness included anti-human trafficking initiative.
The giving consideration to the Committee Committee received updates from the hearing more from more third party external Committees external advisor members perspectives not only from the advisers on onthe activities that they have each the Committee, but also from other third undertaken in their role as Committee party experts, including regulators.
Committee members also requested that, going forward as remediation work is closed In March 2016, the Committee met in there should be more discussion on how to Beijing as part of the overseas Board identify, understand and combat financial programme and each of the external crime going forward.
advisor members visited some of the Groups key markets outside the UK 92 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
