STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Board Risk Committee The Committees role The Committees composition is comprised of independent non-executive directors and reflects the Groups belief that it should comprise members with a deep and broad experience of banking and of the risk factors affecting it.
Further details of the Committee members experience can be found on pages 57 to 59.
To guard against gaps or unnecessary duplication between Board committees, throughout 2016, there was overlapping David Conner membership between the Committee and Chair of the Board Risk Committee the Audit, Remuneration, Brand, Values andConduct and Board Financial Crime Risk Committees.
Dear Shareholder In the few instances where it does not have As Chair of the Board Risk Committee, The following pages provide insight into primary oversight for a given type of risk, having succeeded Lars Thunell on the workings of the Committee and its the Committee interacts closely with the 1 January 2016, I am pleased to present activities in the year.
An overview of the other Board committees where the remits the Board Risk Committees report for Groups approach to risk management ofthose other committees clearly cover theyear ended 31 December 2016. isset out on pages 139 to 149 and risk-related issues.
For example, the Audit theGroups risk profile is set out on The Committees role is to exercise Committee has oversight of the Groups pages150 to 181. oversight on behalf of the Board of internal financial controls and regulatory Group-wide risk, and to provide assurance compliance: the Board Financial Crime Risk to the Board that the overall framework Committee has oversight responsibilities for complying with the Risk Management inrelation to financial crime compliance Principles and the Board approved risk matters: and the Brand, Values and appetite statement is operating effectively.
Conduct Committee has oversight of the mechanisms by which reputational risk David Conner Since becoming Chair of the Committee ismanaged.
This interaction assists the Chair of the Board Risk Committee and as a result of feedback provided by Committee in ensuring that it is well the Committee to management, both the informed on discussions held, and the regular consolidated risk information closecollaboration of the Committee Chairs reporting and the material provided for the helps to ensure that there are no gaps and specific deeper dive discussions has been any potential for unnecessary duplication refined so as to enhance the Committees isavoided.
Acting within an authority delegated by the In discharging its responsibilities, the Board, the Committee has responsibility Committee has sought, and has received, foroversight and review of prudential risks, assurance regarding the independence including but not limited to credit, country of the Groups Risk function in its role of cross-border, market, pension, capital, maintaining the Groups risk management liquidity and funding and operational risks.
framework, upholding the overall integrity Itreviews the Groups overall Risk Appetite of the Groups risk return decisions and Statement and makes recommendations exercising direct risk-control ownership thereon to the Board.
Its responsibilities forcredit, market, country cross-border, also include reviewing the appropriateness and operational risks.
and effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and controlling the adequacy of information it is provided with, www.
com 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management of country risk Committee composition Twice a year, the Committee receives a Scheduled Ad-hoc report from the Group Head of Internal meetings meetings Audit.
These reports provide the Committee with a summary of Group Internal Audits D P Conner Chair appointed on 1 January 2016 6 6 2 2 appraisal of controls across key risks O P Bhatt 6 6 2 2 subject to the Committees oversight, together with the key risk issues identified 1 G Huey Evans, OBE 5 6 2 2 by Group Internal Audits work and management actions put in place to N Kheraj 6 6 2 2 address the findings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2016 included: A separate report to the Audit Committee Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Chief Financial Officer: Group Chief Risk provides Group Internal Audits view of the Officer: Group Head of Internal Audit: Group Company Secretary: Group Treasurer: Group system of internal controls across all risk statutory auditors types, business and country functions.
As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee has private The Committee focused on the following members-only meetings.
matters at its meetings in 2016: 1.
Gay Huey Evans was unable to attend one scheduled meeting due to prior commitments Risk management framework The Committee has written terms of reference that can be viewed atsc.
com termsofreference andprinciples considering the implications of material A report from the Group Chief Risk Officer As noted above, the Groups risk regulatory change proposals, and ensuring isalso presented at every scheduled management framework provides the effective due diligence on material meeting.
The qualitative commentary in architecture for the overall management acquisitions and disposals.
The Committee thisreport has been enhanced over the andcontrol of all risks and for the also reviews reports on key cyber risks, course of the year.
Such reports cover the implementation of the Risk Management threats, events, project updates and the macroeconomic environment, geo-political Principles.
The Groups Code of Conduct Boards top risk profile updates as outlook, material exposures and ongoing sets the standards for individual behaviour.
identified by the Information and Cyber risks.
In addition to these regular reports, Risk Management Principles are top-level Security Management Group.
atevery scheduled meeting, the Committee statements of principle that inform the also receives a report from the Group The Committee has the authority to request Groups overall approach to risk Treasurer, which covers market and receive relevant information consistent management and the Groups risk culture.
developments, liquidity, capital, recovery with the requirements of BCBS239 that will and resolution planning, and rating Further details regarding the risk management allow the Committee to fulfil its governance framework and principles can be found on agencyupdates.
mandate relating to the risks to which page 139 of the Risk review and Capital review theGroup is exposed, and alert senior The Committee receives regulatory updates Every year, the Committee pays careful management when risk reports do not with regard to capital, liquidity and risk.
attention to the formulation of the Groups meetits requirements.
Such updates provide a summary of the Risk Appetite Statement, in order to assure keyprudential regulatory developments In carrying out its responsibilities, the itself that it is effective in setting appropriate affecting the Groups capital, risk-weighted Committee is closely supported by the boundaries in respect of all main risk types.
Such Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief The Groups Risk Appetite Statement information enables the Committee to Financial Officer, Group Head of Internal defines the maximum level of risk the Group discuss with management the major risks Audit and Group Treasurer.
is ordinarily willing to take in pursuit of its faced by the Group across its businesses.
strategy, in accordance with its risk Risk information provided to In 2016, the Committee has had deeper principles.
Risk appetite constrains risk theCommittee discussions on the following topics: tothe levels where the potential for any financial or reputational damage is The Committee receives regular reports on 2016 Bank of England Stress Test consistent with the sustained pursuit of risk management, including portfolio trends, scenario, process governance and results strategy and in line with the reasonable policies and standards, stress testing, 2016 Reverse Stress Test results and expectations of stakeholders.
On behalf of liquidity and capital adequacy, market risk insights gained the Board, the Committee reviews a range of and operational risk and is authorised to stress tests which consider alignment with investigate or seek any information relating Cyber security and the Groups cyber the Groups Risk Appetite Statement.
On an to an activity within its terms of reference.
security strategy annual basis the Committee considers and The Committee also has deeper Transaction Banking cash management recommends the Risk Appetite Statement discussions on a rolling basis on different and trade to the Board.
sections of a consolidated risk information report that is provided at each scheduled Commercial Banking loan impairment In 2016, the Groups risk appetite definitions Committee meeting.
review were updated, further details of which can be found on page 141 of the Risk review The Committee tracks a wide range of risk Shipping Portfolio overview and Capital review.
The Group recognises metrics through a risk information report.
Operational Risk Retail Banking, three sets of constraints which determine This report is provided at each scheduled Private Banking, Wealth Management the risks that it is willing to take in pursuit of Committee meeting and provides an the Groups strategy and the development overview of the Groups risk profile against Survival horizon risk drivers of a sustainable business: the Groups Risk Appetite Statement.
Principal finance review of key Forexample, overviews of credit risk Risk capacity this defines externally processes and controls intheGroups Corporate & Institutional, imposed constraints within which the Commercial, Private Banking and Retail Recovery and resolution plans Group must operate.
It is the maximum Clients portfolio.
level of risk the Group can assume, given Unsatisfactory operational risk events its current capabilities and resources, 80 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION before breaching constraints determined framework and assumptions together with Risk function resourcing by regulatory capital and liquidity the liquidity risk appetite statement.
With The Committee sought and received requirements, or otherwise failing to meet regard to capital, the Committee reviews assurance that the risk function is the expectations of regulators and law theGroups Internal Capital Adequacy adequately resourced to perform its enforcement agencies Assessment and the Bank of England function effectively.
The discussion included Stress Test results in detail in order to Risk appetite this is defined by the changes to the function made in 2016 satisfy itself that the Groups approach to Group and approved by the Board.
It is following the appointment of Mark Smith capital planning is comprehensive, rigorous the maximum amount and type of risk asthe Group Chief Risk Officer and the and consistent with both the current that the Group is willing to assume in adequacy of the people resources, learning regulatory requirements and the likely pursuit of its strategy.
and talent management and the areas of anticipated outlook.
focus for the function in 2017.
Risk tolerances are outer constraints Further details concerning capital can be defined by the Group for each risk type found on page 182 and liquidity can be found Committee reporting to the Board inthe Risk review and Capital review on via metrics and thresholds.
Risk tolerance page134 is set within risk appetite and is a buffer, Throughout the year, the Board has determined by management, within the received regular updates from the Stress testing Board approved risk appetite Committee Chair on the Committees The Committee tracks a wide range of risk activities and areas of focus including Risk appetite covers credit, country metrics that are also periodically reported thediscussions held by the Committee cross-border, market, liquidity and funding, tothe Board.
Stress testing and scenario inrelation to the half and full year results operational, reputational, pension and analysis are used to assess the financial together with minutes of Committee strategic risk, further details of which are and management capability of the Group meetings.
There has also been formal risk covered on pages 141 and 142, as well tocontinue to operate effectively under reporting to the Board in 2016 from the asinthe Capital review on page 188. extreme but plausible market conditions.
Group Chief Risk Officer on risk issues.
The Board-approved Risk Appetite The Committee maintains oversight of the Statement, is underpinned by a set of Interaction with management Groups overall stress testing programme, financial and operational control metrics.
reviewing the design, key assumptions On a regular basis, the Committee Chair These metrics directly constrain the andthe outcomes of principal tests.
The met individually with the Group Chief aggregate risk exposures that can be Committee reviewed the results of the Bank RiskOfficer.
These meetings allow open takenacross the Group.
of England stress test which the Group, discussion of any matters relating to The Committee has considered the Groups along with the largest UK banks, was issuesarising from the Committees risk appetite metrics which increased in required to undertake.
number in 2016 to include greater breath Further details of stress testing can be and greater granularity for credit, capital, Interaction with regulators found on page 142 of the Risk review and Capital review market and operational risks.
Through our The Committee met with one of the Risk Management Framework the Group GroupsUK lead regulators, the Prudential Operational risk manages enterprise-wide risks, with the Regulation Authority PRA.
The purpose objective of maximising risk-adjusted The Groups operational risk appetite ofthe meeting was to enable a discussion returns while remaining within the Groups approach aims to control operational losses between the Committee and the PRA risk appetite.
finance and reputational so that they concerning prudentially focused topics.
donot cause material damage to the In 2016, the Committee discussed the Groups franchise.
changes to the risk management framework Induction, ongoing training and that had been approved by the Group Risk development The Committee has received summaries Committee.
The changes reflected the ofthe Groups operational risk profile, In preparation for becoming Committee revisions to the Risk Appetite Statement, measures relating to operational risk Chair, David Conner received a thorough last approved by the Board in 2015, and appetite thresholds, and updates on risks induction covering the Groups risk theintroduction of a simplified Group facing the Group and action being taken controlenvironment.
committee structure following orto be taken to mitigate them, including reorganisation of the Group.
In reviewing All new Committee members receive an restrictions on business activities.
theRisk Management Framework, the extensive, formal and tailored induction More details concerning the Groups approach Committee sought and received assurance programme that builds upon their to operational risk can be found onpage 180 from the Group Chief Risk Officer on its experience and covers particular areas effective implementation.
Existing Risk management disclosures Committee members have ongoing Further details regarding the Groups Risk The Committee has reviewed the risk trainingand development programmes Appetite Statement can be found on pages 21 to 23 of the Strategic report and page 134 disclosures in the Annual Report and which in 2016, included training on market of the Risk review and Capital review Accounts and the Half Year Report and has and credit traded risk.
reviewed and approved the disclosure on Capital and liquidity the work of the Committee.
In reviewing the Committee effectiveness reviews operational risk disclosures made in this The Committee considers and discusses In keeping with the approach to Committee years Annual Report and Accounts, the the Groups capital and liquidity position effectiveness reviews adopted by other Committee has taken into consideration and the regulatory environment and Board committees, in 2016 an internally The Financial Stability Boards guidelines expectations.
The Committee has facilitated effectiveness review was on principles and recommendations on considered the Groups Individual Liquidity conducted.
This review, facilitated by disclosures contained in the Enhancing the Adequacy Assessment Process which theGroup Corporate Secretariat, involved Risk Disclosures of Banks report issued by considers the Groups liquidity position, its each Committee member and permanent the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force in framework and whether sufficient liquidity attendee providing their thoughts on the October 2012.
In conjunction with the Audit resources are being maintained to meet Committees effectiveness in response to Committee, the Committee also reviewed liabilities as they fall due.
The feedback was then the Basel II Pillar 3 annual disclosure.
reviews the liquidity risk stress testing formally discussed by the Committee and www.
com 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE an action plan designed to address the keyobservations.
Overall, the Committee is viewed as being effective, with management commenting that Committee members ask insightful and probing questions in a constructive way, providing an effective level of challenge.
Committee member observations included acknowledgement that recent improvements in the conciseness and 360-degree overview of risk provided by management in reports to the Committee was a step forward.
Papers for meetings were of good quality and not too voluminous, with the report from the Group Chief Risk Officer providing an opportunity to raise broader issues beyond the agenda.
Areas for potential enhancement included a need for greater challenge to the business heads and generally more engagement with people running the Groups business, in addition to those leading the Groups support functions.
