STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance The Board and committee structure is set out below.
We believe that effective governance is achieved through a culture of transparency and openness between management and the Board and across the Group.
This report, while detailing the required governance and regulatory assurances and disclosures, also provides an insight into how governance operates at Standard Chartered and how effective governance supports and guides our culture and behaviours.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE Standard Chartered PLC Audit Committee Oversight and review of financial, audit, internal control and The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success non-financial crime issues.
More details are on page 74. of the Group and for ensuring leadership within a framework of effective controls.
The Board sets the strategic direction of the Group, approves the strategy and takes the appropriate action to ensure that the Group is suitably resourced to achieve its Board Risk Committee strategic aspirations.
The Board considers both the impact of Oversight andreview of fundamental risksincluding credit, itsdecisions and its responsibilities to all of the Groups market, capital, liquidity, operational, country cross-border, stakeholders, including the Groups employees, shareholders, cyber and pension risks.
More details are on page 79. regulators, clients, suppliers, the environment and the communities in which it operates.
Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Oversight of the positioning of the Groups brand, conduct, culture and values, reputational risk, government and regulatory relations, and sustainability issues.
Group Chief Executive Governance and Nomination Committee Responsible for the management of all aspects of the Groups Oversight and review of Board and executive succession, businesses, developing the strategy in conjunction with the overall Board effectiveness and governance issues.
More Chairman and the Board, and leading its implementation.
Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Oversight and review of all financial crime compliance matters.
Management Team The Management Team comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer: fourregional CEOs: Remuneration Committee clientsegment CEOs: and our global function heads.
Ithas Oversight andreview of remuneration, share plans and other responsibility for executing the strategy.
Details of the Groups incentives.
Management Team can befound on pages 61 to 62.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, along with Matters reserved for the decision of the Board and written terms of reference for the Boards committees, can be viewed at delegated authorities sc.
com termsofreference The Board discharges some of its responsibilities directly and delegates certain other responsibilities to its committees to assist itin carrying out its function of ensuring independent oversight.
TheBoard also delegates authority for the operational management of the Groups business to the Group Chief Executivefor further delegation by him in respect of matters thatare necessary for the effective day-to-day running and management ofthe business.
The Board holds the Group Chief Executive accountable in discharging his delegated responsibilities.
During the year the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board was reviewed against industry best practice and corporate governance provisions and guidance, including the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA Supervisory Statement on Board Responsibilities.
The Board approved a revised Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board to ensure that it remains appropriate and enables the Board to create space to focusonthose areas it cannot delegate.
The Governance and Nomination Committee, in keeping with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, is chaired by theGroup Chairman.
All the Board committees are made up of independent non-executive directors and play an important role in supporting the Board.
In addition to comprising five independent non-executive directors, the Board Financial Crime Risk Committees membership includes four independent external advisor members.
com 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD ROLES AND KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Chairman Jos Vials Responsible for leading the Board, the development of the Groups culture and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Promotes high standards of integrity and governance across the Group and ensures effective communication between the Board, management, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Group Chief Executive Bill Winters Responsible for the management of all aspects of the Groups businesses, developing the strategy in conjunction with the Chairman and theBoard and leading its implementation.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Naguib Kheraj Deputy Chairman: Provides support and guidance to the Chairman as required and, in coordination with the Chairman, acts as an ambassador for the Board and Group in its relationships with governments, regulators, staff, and clients.
Deputises for the Chairman at Board, general shareholder, or other meetings when the Chairman is unable to attend.
Senior Independent Director: Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and discusses concerns that are unable to be resolved through the normal channels or where such contact would be inappropriate with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Chairs the Governance and Nomination Committee when considering succession of the Chairman.
Independent non-executive directors See pages 57 to 59 Provide an independent perspective and constructive challenge, and monitor the performance and delivery of the strategy within the risk andcontrols set by the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and are clearly defined in detailed role descriptions which can be viewed at sc.
com roledescriptions BOARD MEETINGS 2016 In 2016, the Board held eight scheduled and one ad hoc meeting, including two meetings outside the UK in Beijing and Nairobi.
January February March April May June July August September October November December 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 BEIJING AGM NAIROBI Scheduled Ad hoc Shareholder meeting To enable the Board to use its time most effectively, it maintains a Director and the independent non-executive directors on a number scheduled forward programme of meetings and a rolling agenda.
of occasions to assess their views and discuss mattersarising.
There is sufficient flexibility in the programme for specific items to Performance against delivery of the agreed key financial priorities be added to any particular agenda to ensure that the Board can isreviewed at every meeting with particular reference to the focus on the key matters at the appropriate time.
The Board also detailed Group management accounts.
The Group Chief Executive schedules a number of informal sessions and interactions, which and Group Chief Financial Officer comment on current trading, allows Board members to discuss areas of the business, strategy business performance, the market, people and regulatory and and the external environment with members of the Management external developments at each meeting, and present comparative Team and or external advisors.
Generally, members of the data andcustomer insight.
In addition, the Group Chief Risk Officer Management Team and other senior executives are invited periodically attends meetings to update the Board on the key risks.
toattend part of the meetings to ensure effective interaction Detail of the key activities considered by the Board in 2016 is set out on withthe Board.
During the year, the Chairman Sir John Peace and page 65 to 66.
Some of these items were considered at each meeting and subsequently Jos Vials met privately with the Senior Independent others reviewed periodically throughout the year.
CODE COMPLIANCE We applied the provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code during 2016.
The directors are pleased to confirm that Standard Chartered PLC the Company complied with all of the provisions set out in the Code for the year under review.
Although not effective for Standard Chartered until 1 January 2017, the Company is already compliant with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
The directors also confirm that, throughout the year, the Company has complied with the code provisions set out in the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code contained in Appendix 14 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Throughout this corporate governance report we have provided a narrative statement of how governance operates within the Group and our application of the principles set out in the Hong Kong Listing Rules and the main principles of the Code.
The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct regarding directors securities transactions on terms no less exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Having made specific enquiry of all directors, the Group confirms that all directors have complied with the required standards of the adopted code of conduct.
Copies of the Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code can be found at frc.
hk respectively To the extent applicable, information required by paragraphs 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is available in Other disclosures on pages 124 to 130 64 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION During 2016, the Boards programme included the following items, some of which were considered at each meeting and others reviewed periodically throughout the year.
BOARD ACTIVITIES 2016 Group Strategy Details of the key activities considered by the Board under each of the three pillars of the Group Strategy secure the foundation: get lean and focused: and invest and innovate during 2016 are set out below.
1Secure the foundation 2Get lean and focused 3Invest and innovate Received an update on the liquidity Discussed progress in repositioning the Discussed and scrutinised the strategic characteristics of the Group and the Groups franchise in Indonesia priorities in China and received an update framework under which it is managed on the macroeconomic environment in Received an update on the progress of the China Discussed the Groups competitive and restructuring strategy in Korea market position relative to global and local Assessed the key trends in new financial Reviewed and discussed the technology peers technologies and solutions and their impact strategy and the initiatives to improve the on the Group and the banking sector Discussed the Groups corporate structure delivery of the Groups technology capability Scrutinised progress in growing the Private Approved changes to the Groups Risk Bank and Wealth Management business Appetite as noted in the risk and Discussed the Groups progress in and strengthening their processes and governance section below executing the strategic priorities, across all controls segments and regions Reviewed the assessment of the 2017 Received an overview of performance and budget against the risk appetite statement Deep-dived into the Corporate & context of the Groups franchise in ASEAN Institutional Banking business Received an update on progress against and South Asia and assessed the progress the Groups Conduct Programme and key Scrutinised progress against the Groupof the strategy in India and Singapore priorities for the year wide business efficiency programme, Received an overview of the Africa and including cost commitments and Middle East region with a particular focus investment priorities on Africa and the execution of the Africa Assessed progress against the Retail strategy Banking transformation agenda and For a detailed overview of Our strategy see actions to overhaul Commercial Banking pages 14 to 17 Budget and Reviewed and scrutinised the strategic and operational performance of the business across client segments, performance ProductGroups and regions oversight Monitored and assessed the strength of the Groups capital and liquidity positions Considered the key factors in determining payment of a final dividend in 2015 and an interim dividend in 2016 andrecommended no dividend was paid Discussed the updated 2016 budget against the agreed risk appetite thresholds Monitored progress against the strategic priorities and reviewed and approved the five-year corporate plan as abasisfor preparation of the 2017 budget Approved the Groups 2017 budget External Received internal and external briefings and input across a range of topics, including geopolitical risks, developments environment in the regulatory environment, the macroeconomic landscape, cyber security and brand and culture Assessed the potential implications of Brexit on the Group Attended a Seeing is Believing SIB event in Kenya to gain an insight into projects funded by the SIB innovation fund Shareholder and Engaged with investors throughout the year and responded to retail shareholders questions at the Annual General stakeholder Meeting relationships Engaged with key clients, customers and regulators as part of the Boards overseas visits including participation in anumber of community activities and projects Engaged with the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA on the findings of the 2016 Periodic Summary Meeting Letter Engaged with the Financial Conduct Authority on the findings and assessment of the Group following the completion of the 2016 Firm Evaluation Letter Discussed periodic updates from Investor Relations on the share price, performance metrics, register activity, and investor and analyst sentiment Discussed the views of institutional shareholders Risk and Received regular risk reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer governance Evaluated and approved proposed changes to the Groups Risk Appetite, its supporting metrics and thresholds Discussed the Groups enterprise-wide approach to managing cyber risk and approved a new cyber security governance model, moving the Chief Information Security Officer function into the Risk and Compliance function Reviewed the Groups response to the PRA cyber resilience questionnaire 2016 ahead of submission Received assurance from Board Risk Committee regarding 2016 Bank of England stress test submission and results Agreed the appropriate alignment of the Groups conduct pillars with the relevant Board committees to improve committee oversight of conduct Discussed specific conduct matters and potential outcomes and impacts Received an update on progress in ensuring the Groups compliance with current and future requirements of the Senior Managers Regime Assessed the outcome of the 2016 Board effectiveness review and approved the 2016 Action Plan www.
com 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD ACTIVITIES 2016 continued People, culture Considered the composition of the Board and its committees in the context of our Board succession plan and values Received regular progress updates on the Chairmans succession plan Approved the appointment of Jos Vials as Chairman, Naguib Kheraj asDeputy Chairman and Gay Huey Evans asChair of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Approved a stand-alone incremental fee for the Deputy Chairman role Reviewed the Groups People Strategy and its key priorities Discussed the results of the My Voice employee opinion survey, including participation rates and management actions Assessed the findings outlined in the Banking Standards Boards 2015 Assessment Report and the Boards response to the 2016 assessment Discussed the Groups culture, core values and the importance of a robust conduct culture throughout the Group Endorsed the refresh of the Groups Code of Conduct which each director recommitted to The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board, together with the Board committees terms of reference, can be viewed at sc.
com termsofreference BOARD AND AGM ATTENDANCE Name of director AGM Scheduled Ad hoc Attendance Chairman J Vials appointed Chairman Designate 3 October 2016 and Chairman 1 December 2016 N A 2 2 N A 100% Deputy Chairman N Kheraj appointed Deputy Chairman on 1 December 2016 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% Group Chief Executive and Executive Director W T Winters 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% A N Halford 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% Independent Non-Executive Directors O P Bhatt 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% 1 Dr K M Campbell 1 1 7 8 1 1 89% Dr L Cheung 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% D P Conner appointed 1 January 2016 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% Dr B E Grote 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% C M Hodgson 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% 2 G Huey Evans, OBE 1 1 7 8 1 1 89% J M Whitbread 1 1 8 8 1 1 100% Directors who stepped down during 2016 Sir John Peace stepped down 1 December 2016 1 1 7 7 1 1 100% A M G Rees stepped down 30 April 2016 N A 2 2 N A 100% 3 3 S J Lowth stepped down 31 July 2016 1 1 4 5 0 1 67% L Thunell stepped down 31 January 2016 N A 1 1 N A 100% 1.
Kurt Campbell was unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting due to a prior commitment.
Gay Huey Evans was unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting due to a prior commitment.
Simon Lowth was unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting due to illness and the ad hoc Board meeting due to a prior commitment.
In 2016, the Group held one general meeting, our Annual General Meeting, on 4 May 2016, which was attended by all of the directors.
All directors were proposed for annual re election and all were successfully re elected.
66 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Board composition Executive and the Chief Financial Officer as the two executive directors on the Board.
Simon Lowth stepped down from the In July 2016, we announced the successful conclusion to the Board on 31 July 2016, having served six years as an independent extensive external search for our new Chairman, with Jos Vials, non-executive director, to focus his time on his appointment as who joined the Board as Chairman Designate on 3 October 2016, Group Finance Director at BT Group plc.
succeeding Sir John Peace as Group Chairman on 1 December 2016.
Joss appointment followed a period of significant change During 2016, the Board took the decision to strengthen its tothe composition of the Board in recent years.
expertise and understanding of cyber risks, with the appointment of Sir Iain Lobban as an independent external advisor to the Board Jos Vials joined Standard Chartered from the International and its committees on cyber security and cyber threat Monetary Fund where he was the Financial Counsellor and Director management.
Sir Iains appointment took effect on 1 January 2017 of the Monetary and Capital Markets Department.
He brings deep and will enable the Board to draw on his substantial knowledge, economic, political and regulatory experience of the markets in skills and in-depth experience in this space.
Sir Iain will continue in which we operate and is widely acknowledged as an expert on parallel as an external advisor member of the Board Financial Crime theworld financial and regulatory landscape.
For more detail on the Boards succession planning andfull details of the Chairmans search process see page 87 to 88 Visits to our markets In parallel to Joss appointment we announced that Naguib Kheraj The Board strongly supports an open and challenging, inclusive would become Deputy Chairman with effect from 1 December and collaborative culture.
This culture of transparency ensures that 2016, providing Jos additional support and capacity in independent non-executive directors have wide-ranging access to representing the Group.
Naguibs extensive banking and management and information and enables us to maintain a high commercial experience as an executive, and in non-executive level of governance across the Group.
The exposure our governance roles across multiple sectors, ensures he is well suited independent non-executive directors have to the Group is to the role.
He also has significant knowledge of many of the demonstrated through the visits that they make throughout our Groups markets.
markets, both to gain an on-the-ground understanding of the opportunities and risks we face and to validate the Group Strategy.
Other changes to the Board during 2016 included the appointment of David Conner as an independent non-executive director on In addition, the overseas Board meeting programmes provide 1 January 2016.
He succeeded Lars Thunell as Chair of the Board asignificant opportunity for the Board tomeet with senior Risk Committee following his stepping down from the Board on management, clients and our employees throughout our network.
David further strengthens the Boards banking During 2016, the Chairman, our independent non-executive and risk credentials and provides extensive experience of banking directors and the external advisor members to the Board Financial operations across Asia.
Mike Rees, the Deputy CEO, stepped Crime Risk Committee made 84 visits across our markets, which down from the Board on 30 April 2016, leaving the Group Chief included two overseas Board meetings, held in Beijing and Nairobi.
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, BOARD FINANCIAL CRIME RISK COMMITTEE EXTERNAL ADVISOR MEMBERS AND CHAIRMANS VISITS TO OUR MARKETS IN 2016 Europe & Americas Greater China & North Asia Destination Visits Destination Visits San Francisco 1 Seoul 1 Houston 2 Beijing 17 New York 7 Tianjin 3 Paris 1 Hong Kong 3 Boston 1 Shanghai 3 Washington DC 1 Taipei 1 Sao Paulo 1 Newark 1 Toronto 1 Africa & Middle East ASEAN & South Asia Destination Visits Destination Visits Nairobi 13 Chennai 1 Dubai 6 Mumbai 2 Abu Dhabi 2 Delhi 1 Accra 1 Singapore 7 Port Louis 1 Bangkok 1 Kampala 1 Karachi 1 Lagos 1 Lusaka 2 www.
com 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE External directorships and other business interests Jos Vials induction We support Board members taking external directorships and The first two months of Joss induction programme were other outside business interests and recognise the benefits that combined with a well-managed handover period with the outgoing greater boardroom exposure gives our directors.
However, we Chairman, Sir John Peace.
The handover consisted of regular closely monitor the number of directorships our directors take on structured meetings on key areas providing Jos with valuable tosatisfy ourselves that any appointment will not adversely impact insight, guidance and support.
Sir John also acted as a sounding their role at Standard Chartered and that all of our Board members board for Jos in the weeks leading up to his appointment as are compliant with the PRA requirements.
These requirements Chairman and Jos was able to shadow Sir John at the Board and impose a limit on the number of directorships both executive and committee meetings held in Nairobi in November 2016. independent non-executive directors are permitted to hold.
Details Naguib Kheraj, who was appointed Deputy Chairman on of the directors external directorships can be found in their 1 December 2016, has also provided support and guidance to biographies on pages 57 to 59.
Jos throughout his induction and will continue to support him Before committing to an additional appointment, directors confirm more widely through his chairmanship.
the existence of any potential or actual conflicts: that the role will Joss formal induction programme was designed to provide a not breach their limit as set out by the PRA: and provide the comprehensive insight into all aspects of the Group, tailored to necessary assurance that the appointment will not adversely hisextensive economic, political and regulatory experience and impact their ability to continue to fulfil their role as a director of the focused on those aspects which are new to him, including our Group.
In addition, the Boards executive directors are permitted unique history, culture and values: our key markets: the Groups tohold only one non-executive directorship.
Of our executive strategy: the way in which we are structured globally to execute directors, Andy Halford is a non-executive director of Marks and thestrategy: current performance: people: accounting: risk Spencer Group plc, listed on the FTSE 100, and Bill Winters is a management: legal matters: and the regulatory and legislative non-executive director of Novartis International AG, listed on SIX framework in which the Group operates, including the UK Swiss Exchange.
corporate governance regime and the obligations of being a director of a UK listed company.
Time commitment Since joining the Group in October 2016, Jos has taken the We expect our independent non-executive directors to commit opportunity to travel extensively around our markets, visiting sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities.
In general, we branches and offices in Singapore, India, Hong Kong, China, estimate that each independent non-executive director spent Dubai, India, Kenya and the US, building an understanding of how approximately 35 to 50 days on Board-related duties, and the Group is viewed, its strengths and weaknesses, the execution considerably more for those who chair or are members of of the strategy on the ground, the operations, and gaining an multiplecommittees.
insight into the culture, values and ethical standards of the Group.
Director induction Joss induction has been facilitated through a series of in-depth group and one-to-one briefings sessions in the UK and across our All new Board directors receive an extensive, formal and tailored markets, meeting with senior management, clients, shareholders, induction programme to enable them to function effectively as regulators, staff and other stakeholders.
The Group Company quickly as possible, while building a deep understanding of our Secretary has provided significant support to the Chairman business and markets.
Their induction is supplemented with a throughout his induction.
handbook, which includes information on a broad range of matters relating to the role of a director as well as details of applicable procedures.
Each induction typically consists of a combination of meetings with both executive and independent non-executive directors as well as the Group Company Secretary: briefings from senior managers across the Group: the opportunity to attend key management meetings and to meet with major investors and clients: and visits to key markets across our footprint.
The induction programmes are usually completed within the first six to nine months of a directors appointment.
They are regularly reviewed and take into account directors feedback to ensure they are continually improved.
David Conner, who joined the Board as an independent non-executive director at the start of the year, completed a comprehensive induction to Standard Chartered, tailored to his extensive experience of banking and covering those areas where he was less familiar.
Jos Vials began his induction on joining theBoard in October 2016 as Chairman Designate.
Details of the broad themes and individual topics covered in Joss induction arehighlighted on page 69.
Directors who joined a Board committee during the year also received thorough committee specific inductions.
68 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION JOS VIALS INDUCTION PROGRAMME Board Overview & Strategy Regular meetings with Sir John Peace throughout the handover period Regular one-to-one meetings with the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director, the independent non-executive directors and the Group Company Secretary Briefing on the Groups strategic agenda and core strategic projects from the Global Head, Strategy Held one-to-one meetings with each of the Management Team members Observed a Management Team meeting Client Segments & Product Meetings in Singapore with the Chief Executive Officer, Corporate & Institutional Banking: the Group Groups Head, Commercial and Private Banking Clients: the Chief Executive Officer, Retail Banking: the Group Head, Corporate Finance: the Group Head, Financial Markets: the Group Head, Transaction Banking: the Global Head, Private and Wealth Management Regional Businesses Met each of the four Regional Chief Executive Officers, in Dubai, Singapore, Hong Kong and London Met with each of the Regional Chief Executive Officers management teams Risk Met with the Group Chief Risk Officer and held meetings with regional Chief Risk Officers Attended a regional risk management meeting in Hong Kong Compliance Briefing on overview of compliance with Group Head, Compliance and Group Chief Risk Officer: meeting on Speak up Whistleblowing with Group Head, Compliance and the Senior Independent Director Meeting with Global Head, Financial Crime Compliance FCC and the Heads of Regional FCC Regular briefings with the Global Head, Regulatory Liaison and the Head, Compliance, Global Functions Met with the Heads of Regional Compliance Met the Groups Supervisory teams at the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA Legal Briefing on the legal function and the US Regulatory Environment with Group General Counsel Overview of litigation matters with Head, Legal, Dispute Resolution Finance Regular meetings with the Group Chief Financial Officer Briefing on the Groups balance sheet, capital management and liquidity risk from the Group Treasurer Audit Met with Group Head of Internal Audit and with the Groups statutory auditors Corporate Governance Briefing from external legal advisors: directors duties, responsibilities and obligations, and the UK and Hong Kong Listing Regimes Regular meetings and update sessions with the Group Company Secretary Hosted a call with the subsidiary non-executive directors and met a number of them across our markets Met with the Head, Insurable Operational Risk People Discussed the Groups People strategy, culture and My Voice staff survey with the Group Head, Human Resources Met the Global Head, Performance, Reward and Conduct and received an external perspective on reward from the Remuneration Committee advisor Held townhall meetings with staff and undertook floorwalks in the UK and as part of visits to our markets Participated in the Groups women forum in Kenya, SKIRTS Sisterhood, Knowledge, Integrity, Respect, Tenacity & Substance Brand & Marketing Briefing from the Group Head, Brand & Marketing on the Groups brand experience and strategy Undertook branch visits across the Groups markets Technology & Operations Briefing from the Group Chief Information Officer and the Group Chief Information Security Officer on the digital and innovation agenda and cybercrime Met with the Group Chief Operating Officer to discuss key priorities and strategy execution Corporate Affairs Regular meetings with the Group Head, Corporate Affairs Briefing from the Global Head, Investor Relations on key priorities and the shape of the share register Meetings with the Global Head, Public Affairs and Sustainability, which included environmental, social and governance ESG matters and the Group Head, Corporate Development External Stakeholders Meetings with regulators in the UK, Singapore, Hong Kong, China, India and the US Met with major shareholders, corporate brokers and investor bodies Met key clients in the UK and attended client meetings on visits across the Groups markets Met with representatives from industry bodies and held discussions with senior policymakers in the UK and across the Groups markets David Conners induction career within senior executive positions at banks across Asia.
It also provided support to ensure he received a thorough and broad David Conners induction programme included a comprehensive grounding in the responsibilities and obligations of being a director insight into Standard Chartered and was tailored to his significant of a listed company in the UK and the UK legal, regulatory and global and corporate, investment and retail banking experience, as governance framework.
well as his extensive knowledge of risk management and of his www.
com 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As part of his induction David made a number of visits to the directors understand the business and the issues as quickly Groups markets, both independently and as part of the Boards aspossible, but also a well-managed process of ongoing overseas meetings.
These visits included meetings and or briefings engagement, training and development.
This was an area of from regional and function heads, senior management, auditor additional focus during 2016 for all of the Board directors, as partners, clients and regulators, in London, Singapore, New York, mandatory training and ongoing engagement plans were a key Beijing, Nairobi and Dubai.
element of their fit and proper assessments under the Senior Managers Regime.
During the year, all directors received a Having been appointed as Chair of the Board Risk Committee, an combination of mandatory training, briefings, presentations and early part of Davids induction was focused on providing an insight papers on a range of topics to ensure that each directors into the Groups risk management profile and appetite.
He also contribution to the Board remained well-informed and relevant.
received a number of regulatory and legal briefings from our external This training took the form of refresher training on their statutory legal advisors and the Group Company Secretary on the UK duties: an update on regulatory and governance responsibilities directors duties, the Senior Managers Regime, responsibilities and and obligations: briefings on geo-political developments, cyber obligations, as well as attending an external one-day session to security, an external perspective on brand and culture, and a provide him with additional context and further training in this area.
The table below gives further Davids induction was comprehensive in its overview and took the detail on who received these briefings.
form of briefings and in-depth sessions in the areas of strategy: Support is provided to the directors by the Group Company client segments and product groups: regional businesses: risk: Secretary and the Group Corporate Secretariat team.
Directors compliance: legal: finance and taxation: capital and liquidity: also have access to independent professional advice at the audit:people: brand and marketing: technology and operations: Groups expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their corporate activity: corporate governance: Board and committee responsibilities as directors.
The delivery of Board and committee governance: external stakeholders: meetings with clients, papers and other briefing material to directors through iPads employees, regulators and shareholders.
continues to provide the Board with a flexible and efficient method of accessing information, particularly given the global nature Ongoing development plans ofourBoard.
Sustaining a highly engaged, effective, well-informed and functional Board requires not only a thorough induction process to ensure DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND ONGOING DEVELOPMENT IN 2016 Visits to our Directors markets and External duties and meetings perspective China Induction regulatory with local Geo-political on brand economic 1 2 3 3 training updates management developments Cyber and culture context 4 4 4 4 J Vials appointed Chairman Designate 3 October 2016 and Chairman 1 December 2016 W T Winters N A A N Halford N A O P Bhatt N A Dr K M Campbell N A Dr L Cheung N A D P Conner appointed 1 January 2016 Dr B E Grote N A Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE N A C M Hodgson N A G Huey Evans, OBE N A N Kheraj N A J M Whitbread N A 4 4 4 S J Lowth stepped down 31 July 2016 N A Sir John Peace stepped down 1 December 2016 N A 4 4 4 A M G Rees stepped down 30 April 2016 N A 4 4 4 4 4 4 L Thunell stepped down 31 January 2016 N A 1.
Applicable to new directors appointed during 2016 2.
There were no papers available for circulation to directors unable to attend 3.
These briefings took the form of a combination of presentations, Board dinners and discussions.
Where a director was unable to attend a session they received the update by the circulation of papers 4.
Not a member of the Board at the time of the briefing event 70 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Board effectiveness 2016 members to offer their insight into the effectiveness of the Board and highlight areas where its effectiveness could be enhanced.
The effective operation of the Board and the collaborative Afinal report incorporating the feedback and observations from andopenrelationship between the executive directors and the thedirectors, including recommendations for action, was presented independent non-executive directors is crucial and well understood to the Board meeting in December 2016 for its consideration.
With the transition to a new Chairman Theoverall conclusion from this years Board effectiveness review towards the end of 2016, it was appropriate for the Board was that the Board operates effectively.
However, it highlighted effectiveness review to be conducted internally in 2016, anumber of actions for 2017 to address the key outputs.
These, facilitatedby the Group Company Secretary.
along with further detail onthis years Board effectiveness review This years Board effectiveness review took the form of a process, are set out below.
self-assessment questionnaire, completed by each independent The observations from this years review formed part of Sir John non-executive director and shared with the Chairman ahead of his Peaces handover to Jos Vials, providing him with valuable one-to-one meetings with each of them.
The executive directors context as he transitioned into his role as Chairman.
It also comments were received separately through the Group Company provided informative background ahead of the externally facilitated Secretary.
The meetings took place between September and Board effectiveness review that is being conducted in 2017, November 2016 and were attended by the Group Company theconclusions of which will be shared in next yearsreport.
These meetings provided an opportunity for Board THE 2016 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW PROCESS Completion of Each independent non-executive director completed a self-assessment questionnaire ahead of their questionnaire one-to-one conversation with theChairman.
Overall, the feedback received from Board members indicated that the Board was operating effectively.
Anumber of key themes were identified for consideration by the Board, including: Chairmanship style An appreciation of Sir Johns open and inclusive style Board composition Acknowledgement that the smaller Board is preferred Board composition and succession: balance between geographical representation and technical experience The value of input from external advisors Key observations, themes and feedback Consideration of diversity inall dimensions including gender Committee composition Future succession of committee chairs and committee membership Recognition of the heavy workload of some committee members Operational Creating sufficient space onthe agenda for further focused discussion on aspects of the Strategy Review of the scheduling andspacing of Board and committee meetings and the frequency of non-UK Board meetings Continued value and importance of targeted ongoing training Improve technology at the Board meetings to assist those overseas Board and Governance The Board and the Governance and Nomination Committee discussed the findings of the effectiveness and Nomination review and developed and agreed an action plan for 2017.
Committee discussion Maintain the open and inclusive culture on the Board under the new Chairman Ensure that discussions in respect to composition include: geographical and technical representation most effective way to draw on specific technical skills : size: structure: overall composition and diversity 2017 agreed action plan Agree a new Board Diversity policy Consider additional space in the year for in-depth consideration of elements of our strategy 2018 Board schedule to be reviewed to accommodate concerns about scheduling and spacing ofmeetings, and consider an optimal balance of non-UK Board meetings Review Board meeting technology to ensure it is fit for purpose Consider ways to improve thedelivery of induction and training Committee effectiveness The effectiveness of each of the Board committees was reviewed This feedback was formally discussed by each of the committees inparallel with the Board.
Each of the committees conducted an and overall it was considered to be effective, challenging and internally facilitated effectiveness review.
An action plan for each committee has been designed by the Group Corporate Secretariat, consisted of a questionnaire to address the key feedback identified.
More detail on the individual withacombination of specific questions relating to the individual committee reviews can be found within their sections in this report.
committees as well as the operation of each committee.
Committee members as well as permanent attendees were invitedto provide feedback.
com 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors performance Engagement with Shareholders During the autumn of 2016, Sir John Peace, as Chairman, held We recognise the importance of trusted and open relationships discussions with each of the directors to review and assess their with our shareholders.
These relationships are strengthened by individual performance.
This is used as the basis for recommending ensuring we openly seek shareholders views not simply in the the re-election of directors by shareholders.
leadin to the AGM but throughout the year.
For each of the independent non-executive directors, discussion The Chairman and other Board directors have direct contact with included consideration of: shareholders and advisory voting bodies as well as receiving regular updates from Investor Relations on the views of our key Their time commitment, including where relevant the potential shareholders, the position of influential advisory bodies together impact of any outside interests with reports on market and investor sentiment.
The current and future committee membership and structure KEY SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN 2016 The Boards composition, taking into account when each independent non-executive director envisaged stepping down February April May August November from the Board 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Full year Q1 IInterim Annual Half year Q3 Interim Directors fitness and propriety results and Management General results Management Annual Report Statement Meeting Statement Standard Chartered has a framework in place to ensure that individuals appointed to relevant senior manager positions across the Group have the appropriate fitness and propriety to properly discharge their responsibilities, both on appointment and during the course of their appointment.
The Chairman has responsibility During the year, we maintained our comprehensive engagement for assessing the fitness and propriety of the Companys with investors and other key stakeholders, including investor independent non-executive directors and the Group Chief advisory bodies and credit rating agencies.
We have focused Executive Officer.
Annual fit and proper assessments were engagement on our progress with executing the Groups strategic carriedout in respect of each independent non-executive director plan set out in November 2015 to stabilise and reposition the Group and the Group Chief Executive Officer during the course of 2016. and the steps taken to improve returns to shareholders.
This year, we have undertaken around 500 investor meetings and have met Chairmans performance with around 300 separate institutions in key investor hubs across The Senior Independent Director met with the independent 25 cities in Europe, North America and Asia.
non-executive directors, at a private meeting without the Chairman The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer present, to review the Chairmans performance.
The feedback was continue to be our primary spokespeople and have engaged collated and consolidated feedback was given to Sir John Peace extensively with current and potential investors through individual ahead of him stepping down from the Board on 1 December 2016. and group meetings at various roadshows and investor conferences throughout the year.
In addition, many of the Independence and re-relection to the Board Management Team met with investors at various conferences and The Chairman is committed to ensuring that the Board group meetings to promote greater awareness and understanding iscomprised of a majority of independent non-executive directors.
of our client segment, regional, risk and technology strategies.
In determining whether a non-executive director is independent, As part of Joss induction as Chairman, he spent a significant theBoard considers each individual against the criteria set out amount of time in his first few months engaging with our top inthe UK Corporate Governance Code, the Hong Kong Listing investors, who comprised more than 50 per cent of the share Rules and also considers their contribution and conduct at Board register, as well as with several investor advisory bodies to meetings, including how they exercise judgement and independent understand their views on the Group, introduce himself and thinking.
In line with the Code, Dr Hans re-appointment was setouthis priorities as Chairman.
subject to particular review and scrutiny, given he has served on the Board for more than six years.
The Board is satisfied that The Group maintains a diverse, high-quality and predominantly DrHan and each of its non-executive directors bring robust, institutional shareholder base.
North American investors now independent oversight.
comprise around 30 per cent of the share register.
All of the directors will stand for re election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM with the support of the Board.
72 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS PROGRAMME The Investor Relations team has primary responsibility for managing day-to-day communications with our institutional investors.
The team supports the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, other Board members, and senior management in conducting acomprehensive shareholder programme spread across the year.
During the year, the programme of investor events included: Formal presentation of full year and half year results followed by post-results investor roadshows across 25 cities in major investor centres across Europe, North America and Asia Interim Management Statements issued for the three months ending 31 March 2016 and nine months ending 30 September 2016, followed by a webcast with investors and analysts Fourteen industry conferences in Europe, North America and Asia attended by a combination of executive directors, regional segment CEOs, senior divisional management and the Investor Relations team Continued engagement on governance with institutional shareholders and voting advisory bodies.
The Group Company Secretary leads this process along with the Senior Independent Director SID with input from senior management.
Throughout the year, the SID met with a range of investors to keep them appraised of progress on the search for a new Chairman and the Remuneration Committee Chair consulted extensively with a range of shareholders regarding the new Remuneration Policy.
94.3 per cent of shareholders supported the executive remuneration policy at the 2016 AGM A governance event hosted in London in April 2016 by Sir John Peace the then Chairman, together with the SID, Remuneration Committee Chair and Group Company Secretary attended by 14 institutional investors.
The event provided an open forum for debate on topical governance issues and, more broadly, assisted us in deepening the relationship with the Groups shareholders Various investor meetings hosted by the Group Treasurer, regional and client segment management All presentation material and webcast transcripts are made available on the Groups website and can be viewed at investors.
com DEBT INVESTOR PROGRAMME RETAIL SHAREHOLDERS PROGRAMME Group Treasury manages the Groups relationships with debt investors The Group Company Secretary oversees communication with our and the three major rating agencies.
Country chief executives and retail shareholders.
The AGM in 2016 was held on 4 May 2016, was chief financial officers lead on management of subsidiary ratings.
In well-attended and all of the proposed resolutions were passed, with 2016, management met with debt investors across Europe, the US shareholder support in favour of each resolution ranging from 90.5 to and Asia and maintained a regular dialogue with the rating agencies.
It provided an opportunity for the Board to meet with The Group is an active issuer of senior unsecured and non-equity our retail shareholders, listen to their views and respond to their capital-issuing $2 billion of Additional Tier 1, $1.25 billion of Tier 2 questions.
During the year, we also met with the United Kingdom and around $4.4 billion of senior unsecured debt from Standard Shareholders Association and undertook a roadshow with Private Chartered PLC in 2016.
It is therefore important to maintain regular Wealth fund managers.
contact with debt investors to ensure continued appetite for the Groups credit.
The Groups credit ratings are important to the external perception of the Groups financial strength and creditworthiness.
Further information can be found at investors.
com The results of the voting on each resolution at the 2016 AGM can be viewed at investors.
com Board committees The Board places significant reliance on its committees by Alongside interconnected committee membership, the Board delegating a broad range of responsibilities and issues to them.
receives minutes or a verbal summary of each of the committees Ittherefore remains crucial that effective linkages are in place meetings with the exception of the Governance andNomination between the committees and the Board as a whole, not least as Committee.
The membership of many of the committees was itis impracticable for all independent non-executive directors to changed during 2016, including the chairs of the Board Financial bemembers of all of the committees.
Mechanisms are in place to Crime Risk Committee, the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee, facilitate these linkages, including ensuring that there are no gaps the Board Risk Committee and the Governance and Nomination or unnecessary duplications between the remit of each committee Committee, allowing for a fresh perspective from existing or newly and overlapping membership between Board committees.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP LINKAGES Board Financial Governance and Remuneration Brand, Values and Board Risk Committee Crime Risk Committee Nomination Committee Committee Conduct Committee Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Remuneration Committee Governance and Nomination Committee 1.
Committee linkages as at 24 February 2017 www.
