STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Committees Committee Chair Audit Committee Governance and Nomination Committee shown in green Board Risk Committee Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Remuneration Committee Jos Vials 62 Appointed: October 2016 and andadvisory positions including and financial sector work.
He was Group Chairman Group Chairman in December 2016 Chair of Spains Deposit Guarantee the IMFs chief spokesman on Fund, Chair ofthe International financial matters, including global Experience: Jos has substantive Relations Committee at the financial stability.
During his tenure experience in the international European Central Bank, member of at the IMF, Jos wasa member of regulatory arena and has the Economic andFinancial the Plenary and Steering Committee exceptional understanding of the Committee of the European Union, of the Financial Stability Board, economic and political dynamics and Chair of the Working Group on playing a key role in the reform of ofour markets and of global trade, Institutional Investors at the Bank for international financial regulation.
and a deep and broad network of International Settlements.
Jos decision-makers in the jurisdictions External appointments: joined the International Monetary in our footprint.
Fund IMF in 2009 until he stepped Career: Jos began his career as down in September 2016 to join Committees: an economist and as a member of Standard Chartered PLC.
He the faculty at Stanford University, wasthe Financial Counsellor and before spending 25 years at the theDirector of the Monetary and Central Bank of Spain, where he Capital Markets Department and rose to be the Deputy Governor.
was responsible for the oversight Jos has held many other board and direction of the IMFs monetary Bill Winters, CBE 55 Appointed: June 2015 bank from 2004 until he stepped analternative asset management Group Chief Executive down in 2009.
Bill was invited to firm, where hewas chairman and Experience: Bill is a career banker bea committee member of the CEO.
He stepped down on with significant frontline global Independent Commission on appointment to the Standard banking experience and a proven Banking, established in 2010, to Chartered PLC Board.
Bill was track record of leadership and recommend ways to improve previously a non-executive director financial success.
He has extensive competition and financial stability in of Pension Insurance Corporation experience of working in emerging banking.
Subsequently, he served plc and RIT Capital Partners plc.
markets and a proven record in as an advisor to the Parliamentary Hereceived a CBE in2013.
Commission on Banking Standards External appointments: Bill is an Career: Bill began his career with and was asked by the Court of independent non-executive director JP Morgan, where he went on to theBank of England to complete of Novartis International AG.
become one of its top five most anindependent review of the senior executives and later co-chief banksliquidity operations.
In 2011 Bill Winters also sits on the Management Team executive officer at the investment Bill founded Renshaw Bay, Andy Halford 57 Appointed: July 2014 Europe, Middle East and Africa Relations, Property and Global Group Chief Financial Officer region, and later the chief financial Sourcing functions.
Experience: Andy has a strong officer of Verizon Wireless in the US.
finance background and deep External appointments: Andy is He was a member of the board of experience of managing complex anon-executive director at Marks representatives of the Verizon international businesses across and Spencer Group plc and a Wireless Partnership.
Andy was dynamic and changing markets.
member of the Business Forum appointed chief financial officer onTax and Competitiveness.
Career: Andy was finance director ofVodafone Group plc in 2005, at East Midlands Electricity plc aposition he held for nine years.
Andy Halford also sits on the Management Team priorto joining Vodafone in 1999 AsGroup Chief Financial Officer asfinancial director for Vodafone atStandard Chartered, Andy is Limited, the UK operating company.
responsible for Finance, Corporate Andy was later appointed financial Treasury, Group Corporate director for Vodafones Northern Development, Group Investor Naguib Kheraj 52 Appointed: January 2014, Senior and in various business leadership External appointments: Naguib is Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director in June 2015 positions in wealth management, a non-executive director of Rothesay Independent Director and Deputy Chairman in institutional asset management Life, a specialist pensions insurer, December2016.
Naguib and member of the investment was also a Barclays nominated committee of the Wellcome Trust.
Experience: Naguib has significant non-executive director of Absa Group Naguib spends the majority of his banking and finance experience.
in South Africa and of First Caribbean time as a senior advisor to the Career: Naguib began his career International Bank.
Healso served AgaKhan Development Network atSalomon Brothers in 1986 and as chief executive officer of JP and serves on the boards of various went on to hold senior positions Morgan Cazenove.
Naguib is entities within its network.
atRobert Fleming, Barclays, aformer non-executive director of Committees: JPMorgan Cazenove and Lazard.
NHS England and served as a senior Over the course of 12 years at advisor to Her Majestys Revenue Barclays, Naguib served as group and Customs and to the Financial finance director and vice-chairman Services Authority in theUK.
com 57 BOARD OF DIRECTORS David Conner 68 Appointed: January 2016 went on to hold a number of remained as a non-executive Independent Non-Executive Director Asia-based senior management director on the board of OCBC Experience: David has significant roles, including chief executive Bank, before leaving the group global and corporate, investment officer ofCitibank India and in2014.
and retail banking experience, managing director and marketing strong risk management credentials External appointments: manager atCitibank Japan, before and anin-depth knowledge of David is a non-executive director leaving Citibank in 2002.
ofGasLog Ltd. joined OCBC Bank in Singapore as Career: David spent his career chief executive officer and director in Committees: inthe financial services industry, 2002.
He implemented a strategy David is a member of the Combined living and working across Asia for ofgrowth and led the bank through USOperations Risk Committee of Standard Chartered Bank 37years, for both Citibank and a period of significant turbulence.
He joined Citibank in David stepped down as chief 1976 as a management trainee and executive officer in 2012 but Christine Hodgson 52 Appointed: September 2013 where she held a variety of roles Ladbrokes Coral Group plc and sits Independent Non-Executive Director including chief financial officer on the board of The Prince of Wales Experience: Christine has strong forCapgemini UK plc and chief Business inthe Community.
business leadership, finance, executive officer of technology Christine is also chair of The accounting and technology services for North West Europe.
Careers & Enterprise Company Ltd, experience.
Christine was previously a trustee agovernment-backed company Career: Christine held a number ofMacIntyre Care before stepping established to help inspire and ofsenior positions at Coopers down in September 2015. prepare young people for the world &Lybrand and was corporate of work.
External appointments: Christine development director of Ronson plc is chair of Capgemini UK plc, Committees: before joining Capgemini in 1997, anon-executive director at Jasmine Whitbread 53 Appointed: April 2015 Executive Program, Jasmine set up into one management line of 15,000 Independent Non-Executive Director one of Oxfams first regional offices, people across seven regions and Experience: Jasmine has managing nine country operations 60countries, while aligning the significant business leadership inWest Africa, later becoming federation behind a single mission experience as well as first-hand international director responsible and strategy.
Jasmine stepped experience of operating across forOxfams programmes worldwide.
down from Save the Children in ourmarkets.
Jasmine joined Save the Children December 2015.
Career: Jasmine began her career in2005, where she was responsible External appointments: Jasmine in international marketing in the for revitalising one of the UKs is chief executive of London First technology sector and joined mostestablished charities.
In 2010, and a non-executive director of Thomson Financial in 1994, shewas appointed as Save the BTGroup plc.
becoming managing director of Childrens first international chief theElectronic Settlements Group.
executive officer, where she led the Committees: After completing the Stanford merger of 14 separate organisations Gay Huey Evans, OBE 62 Appointed: April 2015 wasdirector of markets division, previously a non-executive director Independent Non-Executive Director capital markets sector leader, at Aviva plc and the London Stock Experience: Gay has extensive withresponsibility for establishing Exchange Group plc.
She received banking and financial services amarket-facing division for the an OBE for services to financial experience with significant supervision of market infrastructure, services and diversity in 2016. commercial and UK regulatory oversight of market conduct and andgovernance experience.
External appointments: developing markets policy.
From Gay is anon-executive director of Career: Gay spent over 30 years 2005 to 2008, Gay held a number ConocoPhillips and Bank Itau BBA working within the financial services ofroles at Citibank, including head International plc and is deputy chair industry, the international capital ofgovernance, Citi Alternative of the Financial Reporting Council.
markets and with the financial Investments, EMEA, before joining regulator.
Gay spent seven years Barclays Capital where she was Committees: with the Financial Services Authority vicechair of investment banking and from 1998 to 2005, where she investment management.
She was Om Bhatt 65 Appointed: January 2013 department, which pioneered Banks Association and was Independent Non-Executive Director financial inclusion.
He led the previously an independent Experience: Om has extensive project team that pioneered SBIs non-executive director of Oil commercial and retail banking technology initiative in the 1990s, andNatural Gas Corporation.
experience, financial services undertook assignments at SBIs andleadership acumen, with deep External appointments: Om is Washington and London offices knowledge and experience of India, anindependent non-executive andheld general management roles one of our largest markets.
director of Hindustan Unilever Ltd, between 2004 and 2006, becoming Tata Consultancy Services, Career: Om had a career spanning managing director of SBI in 2006, Tata Steel andChairman of Greenko 38 years with the State Bank of India culminating in his appointment as EnergyHoldings.
SBI, Indias largest commercial chairman of the State Bank Group bank, where he held a number of until he stepped down in 2011.
Committees: roles beginning with the lead bank Omwas chairman of the Indian Committees Committee Chair Audit Committee Governance and Nomination Committee shown in green Board Risk Committee Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Remuneration Committee 58 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Dr Kurt Campbell 59 Appointed: June 2013 Career: Kurt was founder and wasthe chief executive officer and Independent Non-Executive Director chairman of StratAsia, a strategic co-founder of the Center for a New Experience: Kurt has a wealth advisory firm focused on Asia.
American Security and associate ofexperience of the US political From2009 to 2013, Kurt served as professor at Harvards John F environment and significant the US Assistant Secretary of State Kennedy School of Government.
experience of some of our key for East Asian and Pacific Affairs.
External appointments: Kurt is Hewas widely credited as being Kurthas served in several capacities chairman and chief executive officer akey architect of the pivot to in the US Government, including of The Asian Group LLC, a strategic Asiapolicy.
Kurt was a central deputy assistant secretary of advisory and investment group figure inadvancing the US-China defence for Asia and Pacific Affairs specialising in the Asia Pacific region.
relationship, building stronger ties and director on the National Security toAsian allies and in the opening Committees: Council Staff in the White House.
Previously, Kurt Dr Louis Cheung 53 Appointed: January 2013 Career: Louis was a global partner External appointments: Louis is Independent Non-Executive Director of McKinsey & Company and a managing partner of Boyu Capital Experience: Louis has a wide leader in its Asia Pacific financial Advisory Co, a China-focused breadth of knowledge and institutions practice prior to joining private equity investment firm, experience of financial services, Ping An Insurance Group in 2000. independent non-executive particularly in a Greater China Louis worked in several senior roles director of Fubon Financial Holding context.
at Ping An, including chief financial Company and a Fellow and officer, before becoming group council member of the Hong Kong president in 2003 and executive Management Association.
Committees: Dr Byron Grote 68 Appointed: July 2014 Asia from 2001 to 2006.
Byron External appointments: Byron is Independent Non-Executive Director waschief financial officer of BP plc a non-executive director of Anglo Experience: Byron has broad from2002 until 2011, subsequently American plc, Tesco plc and is anddeep commercial, financial serving as BPs executive vice deputy chairman of the supervisory andinternational experience.
president, corporate business board at Akzo Nobel NV.
He is also Career: From 1988 to 2000, activities, from 2012 to 2013 a member of the European Audit Byronworked across BP in a variety withresponsibility for the groups Committee Leadership Network.
of commercial, operational and integrated supply and trading Committees: executive roles.
He was appointed activities, alternative energy, as chief executive of BP Chemicals shipping and technology.
Byron and a managing director of BP plc wasa non-executive director at in2000 and had regional group-level Unilever plc and Unilever NV until accountability for BPs activities in hestepped down in 2015.
Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 80 Appointed: January 2010 to 2009.
He also served as Korean advisor to the High Level Panel on Independent Non-Executive Director ambassador to the US, chief of staff Water co-convened by the UN and Experience: Dr Han is a to the president, president of the World Bank, chair of the High-Level distinguished economist and has 56th Session of the United Nations Experts Leaders Panel on Water astrong geo-political background, UN General Assembly, special and Disaster, chair of the Water with valuable knowledge of Asia envoy ofthe UN Secretary-General Advisory Group at the Asian andits economies.
on Climate Change and chairman of Development Bank and co-chair Career: Dr Han is a former Prime the2009 Organisation for Economic ofthe International Finance Forum Minister of the Republic of Korea.
Dr Han is non-executive Hehas a distinguished political, Ministerial Council Meeting.
director at Seoul Semiconductor Inc. diplomatic and administrative career, and Doosan Infracore Co Ltd and External appointments: Dr Han serving as deputy prime minister Senior Advisor with the Kim & sits on a number of advisory boards and minister of finance, foreign Chang law firm in Korea.
and is currently the UN Secretaryaffairs and industry and trade before Generals special envoy for Disaster Committees: serving as prime minister from 2008 Risk Reduction and Water, special Committees Committee Chair Audit Committee Governance and Nomination Committee shown in green Board Risk Committee Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Remuneration Committee Liz Lloyd, CBE 45 Liz was appointed Group Company appointed Chief Executive Officer of Group Company Secretary Secretary in January 2016.
Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania, a position she held until October Liz joined Standard Chartered 2015.
She was elected vice-chair in2008, initially within Group ofthe Tanzania Bankers Association Compliance, focused on regulatory in2015.
She received a CBE in 2008. risk and regulatory relationships, before being appointed as Group Head of Public Affairs, responsible for coordinating the Groups policies and positioning on all political and regulatory matters.
com 59 E L A S R M A E E Y F 3 - 1 E L A M E F R A E Y 1 - 0 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board diversity We have a distinctive footprint and a of gender diversity, since we set our inthis area and remains supportive longhistory of diverse board membership.
ambition to increase the proportion andengaged in further increasing the This mix of skills, knowledge, experience ofwomen to 25 per cent by 2017.
This representation of women on the Board and cultural difference enriches the Board commitment was further strengthened to33 per cent.
discussion and contributes towards a high during the year with the introduction of performing and effective Board.
It sets out the View the Board diversity policy progress continues to be made in the area Boards broad ambitions and objectives at sc.
com boarddiversitypolicy Gender diversity Board Executive Non-executive 77% 23% 100% 70% 30% 77% 23% 100% 69% 31% As at end 2016 As at end 2015 Experience Our Board comprises directors withabroad International Banking Finance Risk Accounting International Banking Finance Risk Accounting lived and or worked across experience among independent range of skills, experience, backgrounds lived and or worked across experience among independent Asia, Africa, Middle East non-executive directors Asia, Africa, Middle East non-executive directors and perspectives.
As at theend of December 2016, nine directors on the Board have lived and or worked across 69% 60% 69% 60% ourkey markets of Asia, Africa orthe Middle East and over half of the independent 65% 54% non-executive directors have some 65% 54% combination of banking, finance, riskandaccounting experience.
As at end 2016 As at end 2016 As at end 2015 As at end 2015 Non-executive director tenure We remain mindful of the need to ensure thatthe tenure of our non-executive directors is well balanced.
10% 10% 40% 40% Further details on the work of the Governance and Nomination Committee can be found on page 86 60 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 E E E L L L A A A S R M M M A E Y 9 - 6 S R A E Y 6 - 3
