CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Governance and NominationCommittee The Committees composition and role The membership of the Committee iscomprised of the Chairman and independent non-executive directors.
Itwasrefreshed during the year following wider changes made to the Board at the end of 2015.
Lars Thunell stepped down from the Committee on leaving the Board on 31 January 2016 and Jasmine Whitbread and David Conner joined in January and April 2016 respectively.
Jos Vials replaced Sir John Peace as Chairman of the Jos Vials Committee on 1 December 201 6 in Chair of the Governance and conjunction with his appointment as NominationCommittee GroupChairman.
Biographical details of the Committees Dear Shareholder Looking forward, there are a number of members can be found on pages 57 to 59 priorities for the Committees focus during This is my first report to you as Chair of the The Committee is responsible for reviewing 2017, both from a nomination and Committee, having been appointed on the structure, size and composition of the succession, as well as a governance 1 December 2016.
While there were no Board and its committees.
In doing so it perspective.
These include seeking an meetings of the Committee in December, takes into account the current and future independent insight into the effectiveness as part of my induction I did have the balance of skills, knowledge, experience of the Board and its committees.
opportunity to attend the November and diversity.
The Committee makes Establishing and maintaining robust meeting in Kenya as an observer, and recommendations to the Board with regard succession plans for the Board in the received a comprehensive handover from to any adjustments that are necessar y short-, mediumand longer-term remains Sir John Peace.
andprepares a description of the role akey priority for the Committee and one andcapabilities required for a I would like to thank Sir John for his which I will report progress on in future .
leadership of the Committee since 2009 reports.
Connected to the composition during which time many changes were and succession of the Board is the need The Committee keeps under review the made to the size, structure and toensure that the Board is well diversified leadership needs of, and succession composition of the Board and its and reflects our markets and society more planning fo, t r he Group in relation to both committees.
The recent work of the executive directors and other senior Committee which resulted in the approval executives.
In addition, on behalf of the I set out details of the changes made to and publication of a new Board diversity Board, the Committee oversees the the Board and its committees during the policy is a welcome start to this process by which the Board, its committees year, including my own appointment, commitment.
The Committee will also and individual directors assess their earlier in this report.
The Committees continue to oversee succession planning effectiveness.
It keeps the diversity of the overriding focus throughout 2016 was the for the Management Team.
Board under review and monitors progress search and subsequent recommendation towards achieving its objectives in this area, of a successor to Sir John.
The Committee I look forward to working with the and considers any potential situational led by Naguib Kheraj as Senior Committee members on these and conflicts of interest declared by our Board Independent Director oversaw the process otherinitiatives.
The Committee is also which culminated in my appointment as responsible for the consideration of the Chairman in December 2016.
A summary impact of material changes to corporate of the detailed work undertaken by the governance regulation and legislation Committee in this area is highlighted in affecting the Group.
thisreport, alongside detail of the other activities over which the Committee The Committee reviewed its terms of Jos Vials hadoversight.
reference during the year taking into Chair of the Governance and account individual responsibilities under NominationCommittee 86 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION A copy of the full Board diversity policy Committee Composition is available to view at sc.
com boarddiversitypolicy Scheduled Ad-hoc meetings meetings Chairmans succession 1 J Vials appointed 1 December 2016 N A N A The Committee, led by Naguib Kheraj as Senior Independent Director, oversaw the C M Hodgson 2 2 3 3 process to identify and recommend for 2 D Conner appointed 1 April 2016 2 2 1 2 appointment a new Chairman to succeed Sir John Peace.
The search began in June N Kheraj 2 2 3 3 2015 following Naguibs appointment as Senior Independent Director.
Naguib J M Whitbread appointed 1 January 2016 2 2 3 3 chaired all meetings of the Committee when it considered matters relating to the Directors who stepped down during 2016 Chairmans succession and Sir John Peace Dr L H Thunell stepped down on 31 January 2016 N A N A recused himself from these discussions.
The Committee was assisted in its search 3 Sir John Peace stepped down 1 December 2016 2 2 1 3 by three firms: Russell Reynolds Associates: Lygon Group: and Heidrick & Struggles JCA Other attendees at the Governance and Nomination Committee meetings in 2016 Group, all of whom are signatories to the included: Group Chief Executive: Group Company Secretary: Group General Counsel: voluntary code of conduct for executive Group Head, Human Resources.
Jos Vials attended one scheduled meeting as Group Chairman Designate, ahead of his appointment to the Committee.
Group is a supplier of senior resourcing to 2.
David Conner was recused from one ad hoc meeting due to a potential conflict the Group: Lygon Group had a contract, 3.
Sir John did not chair any meetings when the Committee considered his succession.
He was recused from two ad-hoc which expired during the year, for the supply meetings, which were chaired by Naguib Kheraj as Senior Independent Director of an independent non-executive director and Russell Reynolds Associates have no theSenior Managers Regime, best Committee.
Details of the diverse nature other connection with the Group.
 and the role ofthe Board can be found on page 60.
With the assistance of the search firms the theCommittee plays in respect to Ahighly effective Board is about chemistry Committee undertook a comprehensive and corporategovernance.
and behaviours, underpinned by robust wide-ranging international search.
Maintaining a diverse Board The Committee has written terms of reference of potential candidates emerged through made up of individuals with a range of that can be viewed atsc.
com termsofreference the process, and the Committee spent backgrounds, knowledge, skills and significant time discussing the key experience is paramount.
This diversity Committee activities attributes, skills and experience required provides a rich mix of perspectives which ofthe successful candidate as well as contribute and enhance the Boards Succession planning thecapacity and energy to take on a near overalleffectiveness.
Board succession planning continued to full-time role and travel extensively around To assist the Board in driving further bean important area of discussion for the the Groups markets.
Members of the progress in this area, including the Committee in 201 6.
For the succession of Committee and a number of other representation of women on the Board, independent non-executive directors, the independent non-executive directors theCommittee recommended to the Board Committee considers a combination of the participated in interviews with short listed a new Board diversity policy, which was required skills, knowledge and experience potential candidates.
In addition to updates published in December 2016.
The policy alongside the future composition, size and at meetings, the Committee received has been drawn up, cognisant of the structure of the Board.
In addition to regular verbal and written briefings Hampton-Alexander Review overseeing the Chairmans succession throughout the search process.
The recommendations in respect to gender process, which resulted in the appointment SeniorIndependent Director also met diversity and will be kept under review by of Jos Vials, the Committee had wide witharange of shareholders to keep them the Committee.
ranging discussions on potential succession appraised of progress relating to the and composition scenarios for the Board, Chairmans succession.
The policy includes measurable objectives which included defining specifications for which the Committee will monitor and Jos Vials emerged as a strong candidate future appointments.
report against annually: in the first half of 2016.
Committee Succession planning for the Management members and the wider Board met with Increasing the representation of women Team was also overseen by the Committee, Jos on a number of occasions through on the Board and having 25 per cent which included oversight of the emergency June and July, sharing their thoughts and female representation on the Board by cover for management positions across the insights into his credentials with the 2017.
We remain supportive and engaged business in accordance with the Senior Committee: their support for Jos in increasing this proportion further to Managers Regime.
In recommending 33 per cent cover for key Board and committee chair theappointment of Jos as Chairman, Ensuring that the Board is comprised roles were also discussed by the theCommittee considered the benefit of ofagood balance of skills, experience, Committee, ensuring that appropriate appointing a Deputy Chairman to provide knowledge, perspective and varied individuals have been identified with the support and assistance.
In considering backgrounds necessary skills and attributes to cover candidates, the Committee agreed that these roles on an interim basis should the Naguib Kherajs skills and experience were Only engaging search firms who are need arise.
highly relevant and compatible with Joss.
signed up to the Voluntary Code of Naguib was not party to any of the Conduct for Executive Search firms Board diversity Committees discussions in respect Reporting annually on the executive tothedecision to appoint him as Ensuring that diversity in its broadest sense pipeline below the Board and the Boards DeputyChairman.
remains a central feature of the Board is an diversity, including progress being made important overarching factor for the on reaching the Boards gender target.
com 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS SUCCESSION TIMELINE February Announced Sir John Peaces intention to step down as Chairman during the course of 2016 2015 June Appointed Naguib Kheraj as Senior Independent Director and confirmed that the Committee led by 2015 Naguib would oversee the process to identify anew Chairman Agreed the key criteria and characteristics for the role and engaged with our shareholders and lead regulator, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA July 2015 Identified search firms to assist with the search and selection process Naguib Kheraj updated the Board on progress August Agreed timeline with search firms who conducted a desktop search for a discussion on a long-list of 2015 candidates Naguib Kheraj and other Committee members identified and held preliminary discussions with September potential candidates 2015 Naguib Kheraj updated the Board on progress The Committee held a number of meetings during this period to discuss further potential candidates and their suitability The Board, the PRA and institutional shareholders were updated on progress September-December 2015 Naguib Kheraj and members of the Committee continued to identify and shortlist prospective candidates as appropriate A fresh review of the market was conducted from which new potential candidates emerged from more January-May diverse backgrounds.
From this review, Jos Vials was identified as a primary candidate for Chairman 2016 The PRA and institutional shareholders were kept updated on developments Committee members and other Board members had a series of meetings with Jos Vials Jos Vials met with members of the Management Team The Committee met to: Discuss the positive feedback received on Jos Vials following interviews and other meetings with Committee and Board members Discuss establishing a Deputy Chairman role to support the new Chairman and consider potential June-July candidates for this role 2016 Recommend the appointment of Jos Vials as Chairman and Naguib Kheraj as Deputy Chairman Application made to the PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA for the approval of Jos Vials The Board approved the appointment of Jos Vials as Chairman The Group announced the decision to appoint Jos Vials as Chairman October Jos Vials joined the Board as Chairman Designate and commenced his induction programme and 2016 handover from Sir John Peace December Jos Vials took up his appointment as Group Chairman 2016 88 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Subsidiary governance action plan can be found on page 71.
Thefindings provided useful context to As part of its governance remit the Joson joining as Chairman.
Committee has oversight of the Groups approach to corporate governance across In line with the UK Corporate Governance its subsidiaries.
During the year the Code provisions, the Board and its Committee reviewed both the escalation committee evaluations will be externally ofkey risks and the linkages between the facilitated in 2017.
The review will consider Group Board and its committees and the the structure and effectiveness of the Board and its committees, to ensure they are banking subsidiary boards.
It considered appropriately constituted and organised the formal and informal enhancements tooversee a large, complex institution.
being made to strengthen the current linkages and improve the flows of Committee effectiveness review information, including encouraging further contact between subsidiary boards and In keeping with the approach to committee theGroups independent non-executive effectiveness reviews adopted by the other directors.
Board committees, in 2016 an internally facilitated effectiveness review was In addition the Committee received conducted.
This review, facilitated by the assurance that the composition and Group Corporate Secretariat, involved each operation of the local subsidiary boards Committee member and permanent were in line with local and Group corporate attendees providing their thoughts on the governance standards.
Committees effectiveness in response to specific questions.
The feedback was then As at 31 December 2016, the Group had 26 formally discussed by the Committee and banking subsidiaries and 68 independent an action plan designed to address the key non-executive directors excluding our observations.
Group Board independent non-executive directors.
As the Group Board directors Overall feedback received indicated that the travel across our footprint, they play a Committee is operating effectively.
Actions critical role in actively engaging with the for the Committee in 2017 included ensuring banking subsidiary independent nonthat longer-term succession planning is executive directors.
During 2016, Jos discussed in greater depth across the year Vials, Bill Winters and Naguib Kheraj and incorporated into the 2017 rolling hosted calls with the subsidiary agenda: a commitment to ensuring that an independent non-executive directors.
Bill at externally facilitated review of the Board and the beginning of the year and Jos towards its committees is undertaken: and giving the end of 2016 focused on the strategic consideration to the Committees Terms priorities and direction of the Group, its ofReference, particularly around the role it performance and the important role of the plays in respect to corporate governance subsidiary boards.
Naguib provided context and the principles of its membership.
on the work of the Audit Committee and the key areas of focus for 2016.
Annual re-election of directors The review of the performance of each ofthe directors seeking annual re-election at this years Annual General Meeting was carried out in 2016 by the then Chairman, Sir John Peace.
More detail on the process is set out on page 72.
Situational conflicts As part of the Committees remit, it reappraises the authorisations previously provided to directors for those situations in which they had, or potentially could have in the future, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts with the interests of the Group.
Board effectiveness review The 2016 Board and committee effectiveness reviews were conducted ahead of Jos Vials appointment asChairman.
The Committee reviewed the outcome and actions from the 2016 Board and committee effectiveness reviews, ahead of the findings being presented to the Board and an action plan being agreed.
Details of the Board effectiveness review process and the 2017 www.
