STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Brand, Values and ConductCommittee Committee composition and role The membership of the Committee is comprised of independent non-executive directors who have diverse backgrounds, significant experience and knowledge ofgeo-political relations, brand and sustainability matters, and international andgovernment relations.
Om Bhatt, a member of the Board Risk Committee, waswelcomed to the Committee on 1 December 2016.
Details of the independent non-executive directors Jasmine Whitbread canbefound in their biographies on Chair of the Brand, Values and pages57 to59.
ConductCommittee The Committee provides oversight of the Groups brand, culture, values and conduct, Dear Shareholder external perspectives and discussions, as well as processes by which the Group weintend to continue this practice in 2017.
As Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct identifies and manages reputational risk, Committee, I am pleased to present the Linked to the focus on culture, the government and regulatory relations and Committees report for the year ended Committee reviewed the progress being sustainability issues.
This report provides made against the Groups Conduct an overview of the activities undertaken by agenda, and received assurance on how Brand and culture review the Committee throughout the year.
this is being constantly reinforced and Towards the end of 2015, a review of the communicated throughout the On becoming Committee Chair, I held Groups Here for good brand promise was organisation.
discussions with Committee members and undertaken, including the launch, execution permanent attendees on the Committees The Committees focus on the Groups and impact of this commitment.
One of the ways of working.
As a result, the brand, culture, values and conduct will insights gained was that while Here for Committees agenda has been realigned remain of paramount importance in 2017. good had resonated well with employees, so as to ensure the Committees work ithad become overly linked to community adds value to the business.
engagement, rather than the Groups core activity of serving clients.
The Committee The focus of the Committee this year endorsed the importance of working on hasbeen on aiding the Group brand and culture in tandem, in order to Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Jasmine Whitbread ensure consistency, and was supportive theManagement Team to develop the Chair of the Brand, Values and ofthe Brand and Culture Review, as an Groups brand and culture, in line with ConductCommittee integrated programme of work.
The Committee noted that the work around As well as reviewing managements plans, the brand took an outside-in lens to the Committee benefited from input and consider how the Groups clients can be insights from leading external experts on served in a differentiated way.
The review brand and implementing cultural change.
involved interviews with a significant number As part of the overseas Board visit to of the Groups clients.
China in March 2016, the Committee held an informal session with the local It was acknowledged that the work on management team, to discuss the Groups culture took an inside-out view, in order culture, brand and reputation in China, togain a deeper understanding of the which provided useful context.
Given Groups culture and assess the way in theinsights received from these informal which it operates.
This approach was relianton input from employees at all levelsof the organisation.
com 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE theBoard-approved Group Risk Appetite Committee composition Statement.
The Committee reviewed reports on the material thematic reputational Scheduled risks facing the Group, provided from the meetings perspectives of both internal and external J M Whitbread Chair 4 4 stakeholders.
The reputational risk management report sets out the Group O P Bhatt appointed on 1 December 2016 1 1 function responsible for supporting the 1 business in managing the issue: the Dr K Campbell 3 4 mitigating actions being undertaken: and Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 4 4 anindication of where trends have improved or worsened since the previous update to C M Hodgson 4 4 the Committee.
This year, the Committee focused on how reputational risk Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2016 included: management could be enhanced and Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Head, Human Resources: Group Company thisdiscussion will continue into 2017.
Secretary: and Group Head, Corporate Affairs.
At the Committees request, a discussion 1.
Dr Campbell was unable to attend one scheduled meeting due to a prior commitment was held on the Groups Public Relations The Committee has written terms of reference that can be viewed atsc.
The aim of this discussion was to receive assurance from management that the Group has a robust As the work on brand and culture has anoverview of the conduct awareness and and pro-active PR strategy in place.
The progressed, the Committee has education campaign entitled #knowtherules Committee reviewed the Groups initiatives encouraged the use of metrics in order to launched to ensure that employees are underway evidencing the Groups track progress.
These metrics on culture will clear on their conduct obligations was differentiated offering and value to clients.
feature as part of the Committees oversight alsoprovided.
As an example, the Committee received and discussions going forward.
anupdate on a renminbi campaign, that Employee engagement In addition to formal Committee meetings, had attracted around 80,000 views to anumber of informal discussions have been The Committee is fully supportive of theGroups BeyondBorders blog a held on brand and culture.
An informal topic theGroups focus on creating a fair, communication channel to provide value focused session was held with the China safeand inclusive place to work that toclients and share expert opinion.
The management team to discuss culture, encourages creativity, collaboration Committee agreed that the development brandand reputation locally.
ofthought leadership pieces, such as this, linked well to the Groups core activity of Two informal discussions were held with The Committee reviewed the global results serving clients.
external experts in brand and implementing of the 2016 My Voice Employee Engagement cultural change.
These provided the Survey My Voice, which provided valuable Sustainability Committee with relevant best practice insights into employee sentiment.
andlessons learnt from other large The Committee reviewed a number of In reviewing the global results, the globalorganisations.
matters under the Groups Sustainability Committee agreed that they were agenda including the draft Position encouraging.
It was noted that overall Conduct Statement covering Climate Change, which employee connection to the Group was subsequently published in March 2016, The Committee reviewed conduct with a remained strong.
The Committee also and the Groups community expenditure for focus on Retail Banking, which included notedthe areas which needed the full year 2015. anoverview of Net Promoter Score a tool improvement, including internal process used to gauge a clients loyalty to the andefficiency.
Further details on My Voice The Committee noted that the Group Group, complaints management and can be found onpage 128. remains differentiated with high-quality Treating Customers Fairly requirements.
skillsbased employee volunteering EV time The Committee reviewed the Groups comprising 40 per cent of community The Committee also reviewed a progress approach to Diversity and Inclusion, in expenditure in 2015.
The Committee report on the Groups Conduct agenda.
particular, the work streams underway as discussed the broader benefits and value This included an overview of how conduct aresult of the Group signing up to the HM EV has in building employee engagement management is being embedded through Treasury Women in Finance Charter and and commitment to the Group.
Further the Groups three lines of defence the first theGender Pay Gap.
details on EV can be found on page 11. line including the business segments, The Committee discussed the benefits functions and countries: the second line The Committee received a progress report ofthe Groups over 40 country based being Risk and Compliance: and the third on the Groups approach to sustainability Employee Networks and three Global line being Group Internal Audit.
The and community engagement in 2016, Networks Women: Disability: Lesbian, Committee received an update on the including the Groups Sustainability Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender and Allies.
Conduct Management Policy, articulating Aspirations and revised Human Rights The Committee was pleased to note that the Groups approach to managing Position Statement.
Standard Chartered Bank in Korea had conduct-related risks and reviewed the been awarded the Financial Services Groups multi-pronged approach to conduct Government and regulatory Commission Chairmans Grand Prize training.
The Committee was supportive relationships Award, as the leading institution in driving ofthe Groups use of case studies to gender equality.
The Committee reviewed the Groups facilitate a deeper understanding of approach to all its main government and conductfor all employees.
Reputational risk management regulatory relationships across our key The Committee discussed and received markets, focusing on the quality of these The Committee reviewed the processes assurance on how communication of relationships and the engagement in place.
bywhich the Group identifies and manages theGroups Conduct agenda is being The Committee acknowledged that, given reputational risk in an effective and constantly reinforced.
Furthermore, the Groups diverse geographic footprint, transparent manner, consistent with 84 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION there are typically a number of supervisory matters or investigations ongoing at any time.
It noted that each major issue is given appropriate management attention and is reported to the relevant governance committee within the Group, as well as the Audit Committee.
In light of the criticality of such relationships, the Committee sought and received assurance that the resource inplace is both adequate and of the right calibre.
The Committee agreed on the importance of ensuring that the management of government and  continues to receiveappropriate focus, resource andsenior management attention.
Induction, ongoing training and development Since joining the Committee on 1 December 2016, Om Bhatt is in the process of receiving a thorough induction in relation tothe Committees responsibilities and the specific matters the Committee has been focusing on.
Further details of ongoing training and development plans for those independent non-executive directors who are members of the Committee are detailed on page 70.
Committee effectiveness In keeping with the approach to Committee effectiveness reviews adopted by other Board Committees, in 2016 an internally facilitated effectiveness review was conducted.
This review, facilitated by the Group Corporate Secretariat, involved each Committee member and permanent attendee providing their thoughts on the Committees effectiveness in response to specific questions.
The feedback was then formally discussed by the Committee and an action plan designed to address the keyobservations.
Overall feedback received indicated that the Committee is operating effectively.
It was acknowledged that Committee papers were more focused and that the informal discussions had provided useful external insights and perspectives.
Areas for enhanced effectiveness included suggested topics for incorporation into the 2017 rolling agenda, and that consideration be given as to how informal discussions incorporating external perspectives and contribution from the Groups local management teams might continue in 2017. www.
