SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Report.
Our Governance Code compliance The principal matters reserved for the Board The Board supports the principles laid down in the UK Financial Statements Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 which applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014 the Code.
setting and managing Group strategy: approving capital expenditure and long-term commitments: The following, together with the Directors biographies on pages 51 to 52, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to approving changes relating to the Groups capital policies reviewing Board membership and appointment: 83, the Directors Report on pages 84 to 86, the Nomination and structure including share issues, dividends and buyapproving remuneration policy for Directors, the Company Committee Report on pages 64 to 65 and the Audit Committee backs: Secretary and other Senior executives: Report on pages 59 to 63 provide an explanation of how the reviewing and approving of budgets, forecasts and financial principles of the Code have been applied during the year.
delegation of authority: and reporting: The Board considers that it has been in compliance with the approval of corporate governance and Company policies.
oversight of maintenance of a sound system of internal provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 30 April 2016. control and risk management: The Board is considered to be of a sufficient size and balance to meet the requirements of the business.
The composition of the Board has been strengthened by the appointment of The requirement for Board approval on these matters is conducted an external Board evaluation using Lintstock and Steve Sunnucks, who joined the Board on 1 March 2016, and understood by our senior management team and is built into our implemented improvements where identified: of Beatrice Lafon who joins the Board on 14 September 2016. control framework.
Steve is a highly experienced Director with significant expertise reviewed our position and agreed our approach towards in the apparel retail sector both as an executive and as a NonThe Board receives appropriate and timely information to enable information and cyber security: Executive Director.
Beatrices appointment will bring international it to discharge its duties.
considered and confirmed our longer term viability in a and further retail experience to the Board.
During the year, in addition to its routine business, strategic statement published in this annual report: The Strategic Report includes the information needed for planning and presentations by senior management, the Board reviewed a number of Group governance policies: and shareholders to assess our performance, business model also: and strategy and is incorporated into the Directors Report by established Market Disclosure and Share Allotment considered succession planning for Non-Executive Directors reference.
Committees to improve Board efficiency.
and approved the appointment of a new Non-Executive The Board Director: The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and The Board is responsible collectively for promoting our success Chief Executive Officer, and the role and duties of the Senior considered the proposal for and gave approval to our joint and for implementing the business model and strategy as Independent Director, are set out in writing and agreed by venture with Trendy International Group for China: set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 12.
Keith Edelman is the Groups Senior Independent provides leadership for the Group and concentrates its efforts reviewed and gave support to ethical trading proposals in Director a summary of his responsibilities is available on our on strategy, performance, governance and internal control, as respect of our supply chain to ensure compliance with the website at www.
set out in the schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
Modern Slavery Act: The Non-Executive Directors meet with the Chairman separately The Board meets regularly to consider issues relating to our reviewed brand performance and development and gave on a regular basis normally the evening before a Board meeting overall performance, strategy and future development.
In approval to open six new stores in the USA: without the Executive Directors present there have been four accordance with the Code, the schedule of matters reserved for such meetings during the year.
In addition, the Non-Executive approved the investment in two new distribution centres the Board has been reviewed and approved in the current year.
Directors have each spoken to the Senior Independent Director during 2016 to service better our retail customers in Europe to appraise the performance of the Chairman during the year.
co. uk 53 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Corporate Governance Report.
All members of the Board and the Board committees have As reported in our last Annual Report, our single largest Non-Executive Director independence and sufficient resources and budget to allow access to independent shareholder is Julian Dunkerton, one of the founders of the length of service advice as required.
We and Julian Dunkerton entered into a relationship The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is considered agreement on 12 March 2010, which was amended on 9 annually along with their commitment and performance on the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the July 2014, to regulate our ongoing relationship in accordance Board and its relevant committees.
All Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board with the Listing Rules.
Julian Dunkerton sold 4 million ordinary are considered by the Board to be independent of management procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of shares, representing approximately 4.9% of our issued share and free from any relationship that could interfere materially with the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
capital in February 2016, reducing Julians holding to 27.2%.
the exercise of their independent judgement.
Accordingly, the relationship agreement between Julian and the Operational matters, trading performance and the development A clause is included in their letters of appointment setting out Company was deemed no longer required with effect from of proposals for the Board, where required under the schedule their required time commitment.
12 February 2016. of matters reserved for the Board, are delegated to the Executive Committee that consists of the Chief Executive Having considered the Chairmans commitments, the Board Non-executive Tenure at 30 April 2016 Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Founder, Product and Brand is satisfied that he has adequate time to be able to act as Director, Sales and Marketing Director, Group HR Director, Chairman.
Merchandising Director, Transformation Director and Global Retail Director.
Senior management below Board level attend Directors conflicts of interest Board and Executive Committee meetings where appropriate to Our Articles of Association permit the Directors to consider and, present business updates.
if thought fit, authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the Groups interests.
The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict, the duties.
These committees are detailed below.
Each of these non-conflicted Directors must act in a way they consider would committees is chaired by a separate chairman and has written be most likely to promote the Companys success and they may terms of reference which were reviewed during the year and are impose limits or conditions when giving their authorisation, or available on our website.
0-1 year 1 17% subsequently, if they think it is appropriate.
Any authorisation 1-3 years 1 17% Minutes are prepared for each of these committee meetings by given is recorded in the Board minutes.
The Board monitors and 3-6 years 2 33% the Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary and reviews potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
6-9 years 2 33% presented at the following respective meetings for approval.
All Relationship agreement committees have sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Any person who exercises or controls, on their own or together As at the date of the Annual Report the Board has nine with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or The Board confirms that in the period to 12 February 2016: members: the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters Officer, two other Executive Directors and five Non-Executive at general meetings of a company are known as controlling i we complied with the independence provisions included in Directors.
Steve Sunnucks was appointed as a Non-Executive shareholders.
The Listing Rules require companies with the relationship agreement: Director on 1 March 2016.
James Holder resigned as an controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding ii so far as we are aware, the independence provision included employee and Director of the Company on 1 June 2016, and agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling in the relationship agreement had been complied with by Ken McCall steps down from the Board on 13 July 2016.
The shareholder complies with certain independence provisions.
Julian Dunkerton: and biographies of the Directors appear on pages 51 to 52. iii so far as we are aware, the procurement obligation included Beatrice Lafon has been appointed as a Non-Executive Director in the relationship agreement had been complied with by with effect from 14 September 2016.
The Nomination Committee monitors Board composition and succession with a view to ensuring compliance with the Code.
co. uk 54 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance The external evaluation in 2016 covered: Performance evaluation Board committees Each year the performance of the Board, its committees and the The Board has three principal committees to which it delegates the Boards balance of skills and experience, independence Financial Chairman is evaluated.
The internal evaluation in 2015 identified specific responsibilities.
Committee membership as at 13 July Statements and knowledge, and diversity including the gender of Board that improvements could be made to the administration of 2016 is set out below: members: the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee how the Board worked together: how effectively it used its meetings, and there was general consensus that the Board Audit Committee: Minnow Powell Chairman time and the support it received: should continue to provide sufficient time to focus on strategic Penny Hughes matters, particularly those associated with international growth strategic and operational risk oversight, risk management and notably in the USA and China.
Significant progress was made Ken McCall internal control: and in the year to improve further the effectiveness of Board and Steve Sunnucks committee meetings creating greater time for the Board to invest key talent and succession planning.
in the consideration of the key strategic drivers of the Group.
Nomination Committee: Peter Bamford Chairman Following the evaluation, the Board agreed a number of actions This included a number of reviews of progress within the newly that will be monitored through the current year.
These centred acquired North American operation prior to the approval of the Keith Edelman on the continual evolution of the composition of the Board investment required to open six additional owned retail stores in to complement the strength of the existing Directors and Penny Hughes the current financial year.
enhance the international experience and skills, refinement of Remuneration Committee: Keith Edelman Chairman As required by the Code, every third year the evaluation should the agenda planning process to ensure focus on the key issues be conducted by an external independent facilitator.
This and opportunities, and extending the Boards oversight of talent Ken McCall years evaluation was conducted by Lintstock Consultants management within the business to the senior management Minnow Powell Lintstock who have no other connections with the Company.
Subsequent to the evaluation, the Boards composition has been strengthened further through the addition of Steve Steve Sunnucks The evaluation process involved Lintstock engaging with the Sunnucks and Beatrice Lafon as Non-Executive Directors, who Chairman and Company Secretary to agree a tailored set of both add further retail and international experience to the Board Ken McCall steps down from the Board on 13 July 2016 and is succeeded questions for completion by the Directors, which was followed and have recent executive experience.
by Steve Sunnucks on the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
by a telephone interview by Lintstock where any issues were identified.
The results were then analysed by Lintstock: Re-election of Directors discussed with the Chairman and the Company Secretary: At the Annual General Meeting AGM, all Directors, with the tabled at a meeting of the relevant committee: and then exception of Ken McCall, who steps down as a Director on presented to the Board at its meeting held on 24 March 2016.
13 July 2016, will offer themselves for election or re-election as appropriate.
We consider the Directors offering themselves for The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the election or re-election to be effective, committed to their roles process to encourage an open and honest exchange of views.
and to have sufficient time available to perform their duties.
The performance evaluation was positive with all responses indicating continued high or improved performance during the year.
The performance of the Executive Directors during the year was monitored by the Chief Executive Officer and the Nomination Committee.
co. uk 55 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Corporate Governance Report.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors make site visits to Board and committee attendance ensure they are kept up to date with developments across The table below gives details of the Directors attendance at scheduled Board and committee meetings during the year: the Group.
In November 2015, the Board visited a number Board meeting Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee of our owned stores in Germany to understand better the Number of Number of Number of Number of strategic approach to and operational management of our Retail scheduled meetings scheduled meetings scheduled meetings scheduled meetings Membership and attendance attended held attended held attended held attended held business in one of our key growth markets.
Peter Bamford 7 7 7 7 All Directors have received instruction on their responsibilities as a Director and have also received copies of our key policies.
Euan Sutherland 7 7 The Chairman is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating an Julian Dunkerton 7 7 induction programme for newly appointed Directors, including James Holder 6 6 presentations from senior management on different aspects of the business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities Nick Wharton 6 6 and liabilities as a Director of a listed company.
Following Steve Keith Edelman 7 7 7 7 6 6 Sunnucks appointment to the Board, the Company Secretary arranged a tailored induction programme focused primarily on Penny Hughes 7 7 5 5 7 7 his role as a Director and the role of the Board in general.
His Ken McCall 6 7 4 5 5 6 induction included one-to-one meetings with individual members of the executive team as well as store and other site visits.
Minnow Powell 7 7 5 5 6 6 Steve Sunnucks Diversity Appointed on 1 March 2016 1 1 We believe in respecting individuals and their rights in the workplace.
Please see page 31 of the Strategic Report and Actual number of meetings attended Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the directors could have attended page 65 of the Nomination Committee Report for more information about our approach to our colleagues and diversity, A description of the work of the Audit, Nomination and and for details on the Boards policy on diversity.
Induction and professional development Remuneration Committees is set out on pages 59 to 83.
Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet Communication with shareholders with members of the Executive Committee and the wider The terms of reference of each committee, which are We recognise the importance of communicating with our management team to gain first-hand experience of the business.
reviewed regularly by the Board, are available on our website shareholders.
Communication with institutional shareholders Senior managers regularly attend Board meetings to make at www.
The terms and conditions of is undertaken as part of our investor relations programme.
This year, these presentations appointment for each Director are available for inspection The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make have included such topics as our approach to product at our registered office.
presentations after the half-year and full-year results and development, sourcing strategies, cyber and information communicate regularly on the Groups developments to our During the year, additional ad hoc Board meetings were held security, corporate social responsibility and environmental shareholders.
Committee meetings may be attended by nonactivities, health and safety and logistics strategy.
members by invitation from the relevant Chairman.
Attendance The Chairman arranges meetings with institutional by non-members is recorded in the relevant committee minutes.
shareholders to gain a balanced understanding of their views and concerns and to discuss strategic development and corporate governance.
The Chairman ensures that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman is in regular communication with our significant private shareholders, Julian Dunkerton and James Holder.
co. uk 56 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Our AGM will be held on 14 September 2016, at which time A comprehensive control framework is in place which delegates Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions of authority for both financial and operational activities, the aim where necessary to remedy any deficiencies identified through Financial the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination being to increase the level of responsibility and embed a culture our internal control and risk management processes.
Statements Committees, the Senior Independent Director, and the remaining of compliance through the organisation.
The key elements of the The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed members of the Board.
control framework and review processes are as follows: the effectiveness of internal controls during the year and the Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives: confirms that: Our shareholders have the opportunity to meet the NonExecutive Directors at additional times in the year.
the Executive Committee integrates these objectives into their there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and The Annual Report and Financial Statements are made available operational and financial business plans: managing our significant risks: to all of our shareholders and potential investors.
Other the Executive Committee meets regularly with senior this has been in place for the year and up to the date of information about us is made available on our website.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to the approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: Board on behalf of the Executive Committee on significant Financial statements the process is regularly reviewed by the Board: and changes in the business and the external environment.
The The Board is ultimately responsible for approving the Annual Chief Financial Officer provides the Board with financial the process accords with the Code.
Report and Financial Statements and the half year report.
information which includes key performance and risk In addition, the Board also reviewed the effectiveness of the risk Internal control and risk management indicators: management process in the year which it felt was satisfactory.
In accordance with the guidance for Directors on internal we operate a risk management process which is integrated control, the Board confirms that there is a process for within the short and long-term business planning processes: Our Directors powers identifying, evaluating and managing the risks we face.
This Our Directors have delegated authority to manage the process was put in place prior to the IPO in March 2010, our treasury position, including cash and foreign exchange, operations of SuperGroup subject to the limitations contained underwent significant review in 2012, and has continued to is managed in accordance with our Board approved treasury in the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, the terms of be developed during the year.
We have a Risk Committee that policy: reference of the Board committees and our Group delegated reports into the Executive Committee, with oversight provided authority matrix.
financial forecasts, providing predicted results with sensitivity by the Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee meets every analysis, are prepared routinely throughout the year for review month to review the risks identified, relevant controls, agree Political contributions by the Executive Committee and the Board: mitigating actions and discuss any new risks.
Where new risks We have not made any political donations during the year.
are identified, they are scaled according to their likelihood and we have established investment appraisal and authorisation potential impact, and then monitored.
These systems are in Directors indemnity insurance procedures and our capital expenditure is reviewed against place to manage rather than eliminate risk and can provide We maintain Directors and officers liability insurance which budgets which have been approved by the Board: and only reasonable and not complete assurance against material gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against our we assess routinely the capability of our people to deliver misstatement or loss.
The principal risks and uncertainties are Directors and or officers.
In accordance with section 236 of the the business objectives set and respond accordingly.
It reviewed twice each year by the Board.
Companies Act 2006, qualifying third party indemnity provisions is recognised that there is a need to focus continually on are in place for the Directors in respect of liabilities incurred as The role of the Executive Committee is to implement Board succession planning to ensure that, where there is a loss of a result of their office, as far as is permitted by law.
Both the policies on risk and control and the Board has delegated daykey personnel, we have the ability to operate in both the short insurance and indemnities applied throughout the year and to-day management to the Chief Executive Officer and, through and long-term.
continue through to the date of the Directors Report.
him, to the other Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee and other senior management.
co. uk 57 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Corporate Governance Report.
Change of control Share capital Annual General Meeting The provisions of our employee share plans may cause options Details of our share capital are set out in the Directors Report Our AGM will be held at our Head Office, The Runnings, and awards granted under such plans to vest upon a change of on page 85.
Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, GL51 9NW on Wednesday, control.
The notice of Going Concern and Viability Statement this years AGM is included in a separate circular to shareholders Substantial shareholdings Our business activities and growth strategy, together with and will be sent out at least 20 working days before the As at 13 July 2016, we had been notified, pursuant to DTR 5 of factors likely to affect our future development, performance and meeting.
This notice is available to view under the Equity the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 12 Investors section of our website www.
In Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in our ordinary and Our Performance section on pages 32 to 42. accordance with the Code, all valid proxy appointments are share capital: properly recorded and counted, are made available at the AGM The Directors have reviewed our forecasts and projections.
and are published on our website after the meeting.
These include assumptions around our products, expenditure At 13 July Number of 2016 Nature commitments and expected cash flows.
Taking into account The notice of AGM sets out why we believe the Directors should Name of holder ordinary shares % held of holding possible changes in trading performance and after making be re-elected or elected, as appropriate.
Details of the Directors Julian Dunkerton 22,088,944 27.2 Direct enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that we service agreements and their letters of appointment are given in have adequate resources to continue our operations for the the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 83.
For this reason, we have continued to adopt Investments 10,521,487 13.0 Indirect The Directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
to be presented at the AGM is in our best interests and those James Holder 9,384,415 11.6 Direct The Directors have assessed our prospects over a four-year of our shareholders and employees as a whole and is most Old Mutual Global period.
Further details of the Viability Statement are provided on likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit Investors 4,769,653 5.9 Indirect page 49. of its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of the Oppenheimer Funds 4,087,930 5.0 Indirect Independent auditors proposed resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Artemis Investment their own shareholdings.
Directors will put a resolution before the AGM to reappoint Management 3,822,756 4.7 Indirect  LLP as auditors for the ensuing year.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Lindsay Beardsell Company Secretary 13 July 2016 Registered Office: Unit 60 The Runnings Cheltenham Gloucestershire GL51 9NW www.
