SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Audit Committee Report.
Our Governance The Committee has met five times during the year and reports Dear shareholder, were provided to the subsequent Board meeting.
At least I am pleased to present my report to shareholders on the Financial once a year the Committee meets separately with the external key activities undertaken by the Committee during the year in Statements auditors and Head of Internal Audit without management accordance with its principal responsibilities which are to: present.
monitor the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements, the I am satisfied that the Committee was presented with papers half year report and any formal announcements relating to of good quality during the year, provided in a timely fashion to the Groups financial performance, including receiving reports allow due consideration of the subjects under review.
I am also from the Groups auditors, reviewing significant financial satisfied that meetings were scheduled to allow sufficient time reporting judgements contained therein, together with to enable full and informed debate.
We also reviewed our terms compliance with accounting standards and other legal and of reference during the year, including comparing them against regulatory requirements: the Code, and these were approved by the Board.
These are review the Groups internal financial controls and internal available at www.
control and risk management systems, by providing oversight The externally facilitated Board evaluation completed this year of the Groups Risk Committee and considering reports on covered the effectiveness of each committee and was positive their effectiveness from the Chief Financial Officer together with strong support, as indicated last year, for the reduction in with reports from both the internal and external auditors: the number of meetings.
review the Groups controls and systems to ensure The biographical details of each of the Committee members compliance with the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010 and are set out in the details of the Board of Directors on pages the Groups whistleblowing policy: 51 to 52. review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function Minnow Powell and ensure that it is adequately resourced: Audit Committee Chairman recommend to the Board the appointment, reappointment 13 July 2016 and removal of the external auditors and to approve their remuneration and terms of their engagement: review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity, the effectiveness of the external audit process and the audit plan: and review the engagement of the external auditors to ensure that the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm does not impair its independence or objectivity.
The Committee has a standing agenda of areas to be covered at each meeting based on its terms of reference and, in addition, it considers relevant matters as they arise.
Specifically, within the year, the Committee has devoted time to overseeing the Groups response to the growing exposure to information security and cyber risks.
This approach including assessing existing controls against an industry standard and developing a programme of activity to improve how we mitigate this risk.
co. uk 59 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Audit Committee Report.
The principal matters under consideration during the year are Group restructure Audit Committee set out below.
A programme to rationalise the Groups corporate structure, The membership of the Committee is set out below: which has become overly complex following a series of Internal control and risk management Number of meetings acquisitions in recent years, was reviewed by the Committee.
Audit Committee attended held The Committee has continued to review and discuss with Approval was given to implement the initial steps which focus Member member since during the year management the Groups process for and evaluation and on the restructuring the Groups European entities.
Minnow Powell assessment of its internal controls and management of risk.
Chairman 1 December 2012 5 5 The review focuses on the effectiveness of the risk management Other process including financial, operational, technical and The Committee has continued to review other key areas of Penny Hughes 1 April 2015 5 5 compliance risks and related controls which are described risk and internal controls including accounts payable, treasury, 1 on page 44.
The Committee has noted the continued focus Ken McCall 24 May 2010 4 5 tax and credit control management with presentations given and improvement in the risk management process and the by the manager responsible.
The Committee also discussed 1 Steve Sunnucks 13 July 2016 strengthening of internal controls during the year.
with management the risk and controls over fraud, and the risk of financial misstatements by non-compliance with laws and 1.
Ken McCall steps down from the Committee on 13 July 2016 and is Risk management process regulations.
succeeded by Steve Sunnucks The Groups risk management process is described on page 44.
The Committee reviewed the Tax and Treasury policies and Actual number of meetings attended The Committee reviewed the risk management process during recommended them to the Board for approval.
the year and confirmed to the Board that the processes are Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the directors appropriate.
could have attended All of the Committee members are Non-Executive Directors.
Information technology and information security The Board considers them all to be independent and the While the core IT systems within the Group have been biographies of each of the members are set out on pages 51 to strengthened significantly, given their continued development, 52.
At least one member Minnow Powell, the Audit Committee the Committee has continued to focus on the development of Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience.
The the IT control environment.
other members of the Committee each bring their international A key area of focus for management during the year has been business experience, with Penny Hughes and Steve Sunnucks the development of an approach to monitor and govern cyber also contributing strong retail knowledge and Ken McCall security.
To ensure that information management is covered in contributing extensive logistics experience.
its widest sense IT systems, data protection and integrity and By invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chairman, the confidentiality a business wide group has been established Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, Head of covering all key functions.
This forum has applied common Internal Audit outsourced to KPMG LLP, other senior managers practice from other businesses and the framework published and external auditors also attend Committee meetings.
by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills to create a programme to improve security and improve education and The role of the secretary to the Committee is performed by the awareness.
Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary.
Senior management have also provided reports on the Groups compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, and IT security risks, key issues and development of the related controls.
Disaster recovery plans for the major IT components critical to business operations are now in place and will continue to be tested and enhanced, while non-IT related Business Continuity plans continue to be developed.
co. uk 60 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Financial reporting and accounting judgements The Committee reviewed and approved the Financial Statements of the Group and all formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
The review considers the integrity of the Financial reporting, the appropriateness and acceptability of accounting policies and practices, and compliance with financial reporting standards and requirements.
Statements For accounting judgements, the Committee considered detailed papers from management and the views of the external auditors.
The Committee considers that the Group has adopted appropriate accounting policies and made appropriate estimates and judgements where required.
The areas of accounting judgements and issues have been reviewed and updated by the Committee for the current year are set out below: Area Issue How addressed Acquisition accounting, Material items are outside the The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the fair value attributed to the purchase of the assets of SDUSA LLC at licence and contract normal course of business and are the anniversary date of the purchase and the subsequent adjustment to the initial fair value estimate.
termination, and other adequately disclosed.
The Committee considered the nature and size of costs categorised as exceptional to include whether they met the definition of an exceptional and reFair values are appropriately exceptional, being material in size, unusual, or infrequent in nature, or are re-measurements.
measurement items determined at the date of The Committee has reviewed the exceptional and re-measurement items as disclosed in Note 6 to the Financial Statements and is acquisition.
satisfied that the categorisation is appropriate.
Provisions for inventory, Management judgement is required For each provision, the Committee considered and challenged the judgements made by management and assessed the available returns, receivables and and estimates are used to support evidence, including historic trends, and concluded that the provisions were appropriate.
Going concern and The appropriateness of preparation The Committee reviewed the cash flow forecasts and concluded that it was appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements on Viability Statement of the Financial Statements on a going concern basis.
Following the Boards review of the business plan, the Committee considered the cash-flows, sensitivities a going concern basis and the and disclosures, made with regard to the Groups viability, in this Annual Report.
Revenue recognition Revenue from Wholesale sales The Committee reviewed managements policy for credit note provisions and the controls in place over the Wholesale invoicing is recognised in the appropriate process, and are satisfied they are appropriate.
co. uk 61 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Audit Committee Report.
Fair, balanced and understandable Internal audit effectiveness Effectiveness of external audit At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered The internal audit function has continued to develop and A review of the effectiveness of external audit was undertaken whether the Financial Statements and the elements of the improve its effectiveness during the year.
The ongoing review by an internal survey of members of the Committee, the Chief Annual Report that are relevant to the Financial Statements, of an audit universe, and the outputs from the Risk Committee, Financial Officer, and the internal finance team in September as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
has enabled the role of internal audit and scope of its work to 2015.
This review adopted the new FRC guidance on continue to evolve to take account of changes within the Group effectiveness and included consideration of the AQRT report on The Board took account of this review in its consideration of and emerging best practice.
The annual review of the internal PwC as a firm and noted the key findings.
whether the Annual Report, in its entirety, was fair, balanced audit plan ensures that the coming year is planned and following and understandable.
While we were satisfied that our external auditors continued two years agreed in outline so that areas of focus are audited to perform effectively, the Committee believed that audit at least once over the course of the three year plan.
During the Whistleblowing effectiveness would be enhanced by the introduction of year, internal audit has delivered ten audits including coverage The Group has a policy and process in place for whistleblowing a new audit partner who would provide fresh perspective of the following areas: health & safety compliance, e-commerce and the Committee is satisfied that colleagues have the and challenge.
Following a selection process and managed security, accounts receivable, VAT, general IT controls, opportunity to raise concerns in confidence about possible handover, the new partner, Mark Smith, was introduced in management reporting, international franchises, retail supply fraudulent activity and any other concerns that arise within the November 2015. chain, merchandise procurement and retail pricing.
The Committee is also satisfied that arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation of Supervision of the external auditors The effectiveness of internal audit is reviewed on an ongoing such matters, including appropriate follow-up action.
The Committee oversees the external auditors by reviewing, basis by the Committee with no significant concerns identified.
challenging, and approving the audit plan and ensuring that This review takes the form of a detailed questionnaire followed During the year the Committee received an update on instances it is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
The by discussion and assessment of the outsourced function.
The of fraud within the Group and a summary of the calls to the Committee meets regularly with the external auditors, both with Committee will continue to assess whether internal audit should whistleblowing helpline together with follow up actions that were and without management present.
During the review of the remain outsourced, in part or in full.
audit plan, the Committee discussed and agreed those financial External audit effectiveness and integrity of statement risk areas identified by the auditors that required Controls and procedures are in place to ensure compliance additional audit emphasis and discussed and challenged the with the Bribery Act 2010.
The Committee receives a regular the Groups relationship auditors assessment of materiality.
The audit opinion on pages report on the Groups gift register which includes any gifts The Committee reviews, with the external auditors, the audit 89 to 96 provides a full explanation of the auditors assessment and hospitality received by colleagues from external business plan and the outcome and findings of the annual external audit.
of material misstatement, concept of materiality and scope of relationships above an agreed threshold.
In reviewing the audit plan the Committee noted and challenged the audit.
the key areas of risk raised by  PwC, understood the basis of materiality and requested that Reappointment of external auditors all potential adjustments and errors above 0.1m be reported to Based on the assessment of effectiveness and independence the Committee.
of the external auditors, the Committee has recommended the reappointment of PwC, who were appointed by a competitive In addition, the Committee approves the scope and fees for tender process to the SuperGroup legacy companies in 2008, the external audit and is responsible for recommending the for the next financial year.
The Committee plans that the audit appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors.
will be tendered in early 2017, with the successful firm taking office after the completion of the 2017 audit.
The Committee confirms that the Company was in compliance with the UK Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 during the year ended 30 April 2016. www.
co. uk 62 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Details of all non-audit services provided during the year are set Independence out within the note on auditors remuneration on page 118 and Auditor independence is maintained by reviewing PwCs Financial are summarised in the table below: confirmation of their independence, monitoring the nature Statements and value of non-audit services carried out, and ensuring that 2016 2015 employees of the external auditors who have worked on the 000 000 audit in the past two years are not appointed, without prior Audit fees 430 305 approval of the Committee, to senior financial positions within the Company.
In addition, the rotation of the lead partner occurs Non-audit fees every five years.
Audit-related assurance services 60 42 The Committee assessed the independence of the external Tax compliance and advisory 45 64 auditors and concluded that they were independent.
Other 331 120 Non-audit services The general policy in respect of non-audit work by the external Total non-audit fees 436 226 auditors is that they should not be requested to carry out nonNon-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees 101% 74% audit services on any material activity of the Group where they may, in the future, be required to give an audit opinion or act as Non-audit fees were 101% in 2016 primarily due to 331,000 management, in accordance with the Audit Practices Boards of advisory services provided by PwC to support the Groups Ethical Standards for Auditors.
These services were subject to a In certain limited areas it is in the Groups and its shareholders robust tendering process, involving five alternative suppliers.
interests to engage the external audit firm to deliver certain This process clearly demonstrated PwCs deep capability and services.
To protect auditor objectivity and independence the relevant retail experience to support this important programme Committee approves each individual non-audit service above and the strength of their commercial proposition, including 20,000 in value, and every piece of work once an agreed value for money.
The Committee confirmed that the award of threshold, capped at a value equivalent to the audit fee, is this project did not influence the remuneration of the Senior reached.
The Committee has reviewed and agreed the non-audit services as set out above provided by the external auditors, together with the associated fees, and is satisfied that these did not prejudice the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Minnow Powell Audit Committee Chairman 13 July 2016 www.
