SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Nomination Committee Report.
The Committee, together with Euan Sutherland, have Dear shareholder Activities during the year continued to review the executive team structure to define clear The Committee is responsible for nominating candidates The prime focus of the Committee this year has been on accountability for delivery of the five-year strategic plan and for Board positions and ensuring that the Company has overseeing a series of changes to Board composition and to ensure the right leadership structure is in place to lead the the leadership and senior management to meet its growth ensuring that the Company has the right talent in key roles to business through a complex period of growth in new territories.
realise its growth potential in existing and new markets.
This Nick Tatum joined the Group in December 2015 as Global Retail included the recruitment and subsequent recommendations The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: Director and as a member of the executive team following an made to the Board on the appointment of Steve Sunnucks and, extensive search in partnership with Korn Ferry.
He previously subsequent to the year end, Beatrice Lafon, both as Nonreview the structure, size, composition and balance of the held a broad range of retail and commercial senior leadership Executive Directors.
Board and recommend changes where appropriate: roles with Tesco.
During the year the Committee monitored the performance of consider and recommend succession planning for Executive the senior team and reviewed the organisational structure.
It also Appointment process and Non-Executive Directors: ensured that key individuals were given support and mentoring There is a formal and robust procedure for the appointment identify and nominate candidates for approval by the Board to where appropriate.
of new Directors to the Board, under which the Committee fill Board vacancies or new positions as and when they arise: interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either by Key talent risks and succession plans for the Executive Directors existing Board members or by an external search firm and approve appointments to the Executive Committee: and and senior leaders were reviewed in October 2015 and actions undertaking extensive referencing.
Careful consideration is given put in place to mitigate identified risks.
evaluate the skills, experience and knowledge of Board to ensure proposed appointees have enough time available to members.
devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and The Committee also reviewed its effectiveness against its terms experience on the Board is maintained.
When the Committee of reference and the results of the annual Board evaluation, Membership as at 30 April 2016 and has found a suitable candidate, a proposal is made to the the details of which can be found on page 55.
The review meetings during the year Board, which has retained the responsibility for all such concluded that the Committee was performing effectively.
During the year, this procedure was followed for meetings Director changes the appointments of Steve Sunnucks and Beatrice Lafon.
Membership and attendance attended held In January 2016, Ken McCall advised of his intention to step Steve was introduced to the Board by an existing Board Peter Bamford Chairman 7 7 down from the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect member against the agreed profile of adding recent industry from 13 July 2016.
Keith Edelman 7 7 experience, including North America.
Following a series of Steve Sunnucks was appointed to the Board as a Noninterviews with me and other members of the Board, it was Penny Hughes 7 7 Executive Director on 1 March 2016.
Following Kens agreed that Steve would be a strong addition to the Board and Actual number of meetings attended resignation, Steve was appointed to the Audit and so no other candidates were considered.
Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the directors could have attended In May 2016, James Holder, Founder, Brand and Design Director, resigned as an employee and Director with effect The Committee met seven times during the year.
James will continue to work with the Group the members of the Committee, which comprises independent through a contract for services arrangement and will focus his Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and the time on leading innovation in product design.
Group HR Director attended each of the meetings.
The role of secretary to the Committee is performed by the Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary.
A report on the Committees activities is given to the Board at each Board meeting following a meeting of the Committee.
co. uk 64 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance In respect of Beatrices appointment, the Committee engaged The Board is also supportive of the recommendations of Lord Board evaluation with Russell Reynolds, which provide only Board and executive Davies report on Women on Boards and recognises the Details of the review of the Board and its committees, including Financial recruitment services to SuperGroup, and the following process importance of women having greater representation at key this Committee, and my effectiveness as Chairman, undertaken Statements was undertaken: decision making points in the organisation and aims to target during the year can be found on page 55.
Having reviewed the a participation of 20% of women on the Board by the end of results of the Board evaluation, the Committee confirmed to the role profiles were prepared against which potential candidates calendar year 2016.
Board that the present Board and its committees continue to were considered: operate effectively and that all of the Non-Executive Directors All Board appointments are based on the business needs and as Chairman, I interviewed an initial list of candidates, from remain independent and, with the exception of Ken McCall who the merit of each candidate, having assessed the skills and which a shortlist of preferred candidates was selected: steps down from the Board on 13 July 2016, should stand for experience that they can bring to the business.
re-election or election, as appropriate, at the AGM.
other Non-Executive Directors and Executive Board members In addition to seeking to increase the diversity of SuperGroups interviewed the shortlist of candidates and provided feedback Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Directors, the Board believes it is equally important that the to the Committee: wider leadership team which includes the members of the Peter Bamford Executive Committee and SuperGroups senior managers is the Committee considered these views together with Nomination Committee Chairman diverse in terms of skills, experience, gender and background.
other independent references in its deliberations before 13 July 2016 recommending a preferred candidate to the Board: and As part of our commitment to improve the gender diversity of the Board, we have worked in partnership with Russell Reynolds the Board approved the appointment as recommended.
to appoint Beatrice Lafon as a Non-Executive Director.
Beatrice A similar process is followed for the appointment of members to will join the Board on 14 September 2016. the Executive Committee.
Further details on our statistics on gender diversity can be found Board composition and policy on diversity on page 31 of the Strategic Report.
The Committee reviews regularly the composition of the Board and membership of Board committees.
The Board is supportive of greater diversity in all its forms and believes that a truly diverse board should include and make good use of differences in the skills, experiences, gender and background of its Directors.
Given the global growth ambitions of SuperGroup, the Board is focused on ensuring that its Directors have experience of living and working in those markets in which it operates or plans to operate, and that the Board comprises a mix of Non-Executive Directors with professional experience as Non-Executive Directors and or with current or recent operational experience.
