30 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has implemented a framework for corporate governance which it considers to be appropriate for the Company.
This framework is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board evaluation process and will be reviewed in light of any changes to the Companys strategy.
The Corporate Governance Code the Code, published in 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, applies to disclosures in this statement.
The Code is available to download from www.
The Company is subject to the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
The Company entered into a management agreement with SVGC Managers Limited a wholly owned subsidiary on 1 October 2015.
State Street Trustees Limited continues to act as its depositary, in accordance with the requirements of the AIFMD.
Compliance statement The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose how they have complied with the provisions of the Code.
This Corporate governance report, together with the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 36 and Going-concern statement set out on page 32, indicates how the Company has complied with the principles of good governance of the Code and its requirements on risk management and internal control.
The Board considers that the Company has, throughout the year under review, complied with the principles of theCode.
These principles are: leadership: effectiveness: accountability: remuneration and relations with shareholders.
Information on each of these themes can be found in this Corporate governance report, the Risks and audit oversight section on page22, the Report of the Directors on page 35 and the Remuneration report on page 38.
Role of the Board The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment objectives and policy and considers the future strategic direction of the Company.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for presenting fair, balanced and understandable information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, in annual and half-yearly reports and other forms of public reporting.
Itmonitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, and evaluates the performance of all service providers, with input from its Committees where appropriate.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company including those powers relating to the issuing or buying back of shares.
Further details of the authorities to be sought at the AGM with respect to issuing or buying back shares can be found on pages 93 to 99.
A procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company has been agreed.
Composition and independence At 31 January 2016, there were five non-executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Lynn Fordham, who became an employee ofSVGC Managers Limited on 1 October 2015, continues in her role as Chief Executive of the Company.
Proles of each of the Directors, including length of service, may be found on pages 28 and 29.
The Board considers each of Simon Bax, StephenDuckett, Helen Mahy CBE and David Robins to be independent.
A review of Board composition and balance, including succession planning for appointments to the Board, is included as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may be found below.
The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size, with an appropriate balance of skills and experience including financial expertise, andthat no individual or group ofindividuals is or has been in a position to dominate decision making.
Senior Independent Director David Robins is the Senior Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Company Secretary The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Tenure The Directors have adopted a policy on tenure that they consider appropriate for the Company.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, impacts on independence.
The independence of non-executive Directors willcontinue to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
