Corporate information Corporate governance report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has implemented a framework for corporate governance which it considers to be appropriate for the Company.
This framework is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board evaluation process.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published in 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, applies to disclosures in this statement.
The Code is available to download from www.
The Company is subject to the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
The Company entered into a management agreement with SVGC Managers Limited a wholly owned subsidiary on 1 October 2015.
State Street Trustees Limited continues to act as its depositary, in accordance with the requirements of the AIFMD.
Compliance statement The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose how they have complied with the provisions of the Code.
This Corporate governance report, together with the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 20 and Goingconcern statement set out on page 16, indicates how the Company has complied with the principles of good governance of the Code and its requirements on risk management and internal control.
The Board considers that the Company has, throughout the year under review, complied with the principles of the Code.
These principles are: leadership: effectiveness: accountability: remuneration and relations with shareholders.
Information on each of these themes can be found in this Corporate governance report, the Risks and audit oversight section on page 7, the Report of the Directors on page 19 and the Remuneration report on page 22.
Role of the Board The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment objectives and policy and considers the future strategic direction of the Company.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for presenting fair, balanced and understandable information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, in annual and halfyearly reports and other forms of public reporting.
It monitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, and evaluates the performance of all service providers, with input from its Committees where appropriate.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company including those powers relating to the issuing or buying back of shares.
A procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company has been agreed.
Composition and independence At 9 December 2016, there were five nonexecutive Directors, including the Chairman.
Lynn Fordham continues in her role as Chief Executive of the Company.
Profiles of each of the Directors, including length of service, may be found on pages 12 and 13.
The Board considers each of Simon Bax, Stephen Duckett, Helen Mahy and David Robins to be independent.
A review of Board composition and balance, including succession planning for appointments to the Board, is included as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may be found below.
The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size, with an appropriate balance of skills and experience including financial expertise, and that no individual or group of individuals is or has been in a position to dominate decision making.
Senior Independent Director David Robins is the Senior Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Company Secretary The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Tenure The Directors have adopted a policy on tenure that they consider appropriate for the Company.
The Company has a policy of annual reelection for each Director.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, impacts on independence.
The independence of nonexecutive Directors will continue to be assessed on a casebycase basis by the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
The Companys articles provide that in addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act 2006, the Company may by special resolution remove any Director.
The Company may by ordinary resolution elect a Director.
14 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 SVG Capital plc Interim Report 2016 Corporate information Induction and training When a Director is appointed he or she receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
This includes a detailed briefing from the Company Secretary on the running of the Board covering such matters as terms of reference, governance practices, risk management and oversight, and the calendar of events.
In addition, meetings are arranged with various members of the management team to facilitate abetter understanding of the business.
New Board members are provided with oneonone risk oversight and governance training and orientation.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time.
In addition, Directors may attend ad hoc seminars covering issues and developments relevant to the Company.
The suitability and adequacy of training that is made available to Directors isassessed as part of the performance evaluation process.
It was assessed as adequate in the most recent evaluation.
Performance evaluation The last Board evaluation was undertaken in late 2015 and concluded that the Board was well led and functioned effectively and efficiently.
While no material issues were identified, a number of housekeeping recommendations were suggested which were considered by the Chairman with the Company Secretary and an action plan to address a number of matters was proposed and then approved by the Board.
These included: updating the terms of reference of the Nominations and Governance Committee to better reflect its role and changing governance expectations of such committees: updating the Senior Independent Directors letter of appointment to reflect the expectations of that role: facilitating continuing education through better information flows to Directors on industry relevant training material and courses.
These matters were dealt with during the course of 2016.
Given the takeover offer received by the Company and the ensuing change of investment objective and policy and sale of investment portfolio, it was decided that no board evaluation be undertaken in 2016.
Information flows The Board receives written reports from management on at least a quarterly basis and as appropriate on specific matters.
The Chairman ensures that Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements, and the Companys risk management and control results.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
Insurance and indemnities During the year, the Company maintained cover for its Directors and Officers under a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The Company provides a Deed of Indemnity to each Director to the extent permitted by UK law whereby the Company agrees to indemnify such Director against any liability incurred in proceedings in which the Director is successful, and for costs in defending a claimbrought against the Director for breach of duty where the Director acted honestly and reasonably.
Conflicts of interest The Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts of interest to the Board as they arise for consideration and approval.
These are considered carefully, taking into account the circumstances around them, and if considered appropriate, are approved.
The Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise such conflicts if deemed appropriate.
Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions to the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
Terms of Reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Details of membership of the Committees at 9 December 2016 may be found on pages 12 and 13 and information regarding attendance at Committee meetings during the year under review may be found below.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 15 Corporate information Corporate governance report Continued Meetings The Board held 12 meetings in the period to 9 December 2016.
These included the three scheduled Board meetings and then a number of ad hoc meetings which were mostly to consider the takeover offer received by the Company.
Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings was as set out below: Corporate Governance and Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Director Board Committee Committee Committee Stephen Duckett 12 12 3 3 3 3 1 1 Lynn Fordham 12 12 Simon Bax 12 12 2 3 3 3 1 1 David Robins 11 12 3 3 3 3 1 1 Helen Mahy 11 12 3 3 3 3 1 1 Andrew Sykes 12 12 3 3 1 1 The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other nonexecutive Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Simon Bax was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting.
Helen Mahy and David Robins were not able to attend one board meeting each.
All of these meetings were unscheduled meetings, called on short notice, to deal with the takeover offer received.
In the event that a Director does not attend, the Chairman and or the Chief Executive will contact him or her prior to and following the meeting to keep him or her apprised and seek views on the matters discussed or to be discussed.
Relations with shareholders The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with both institutional and retail shareholders is important for the prospects of the Company.
It has, since its launch, sought engagement with investors.
The Chief Executive and Chairman and other Directors, where appropriate, discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
Annual and semiannual results presentations take place each year along with an annual capital markets day.
The Board may also undertake shareholder perceptions research from time to time.
The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual Report and Accounts is, when possible, sent to shareholders at least 20 business days before the Annual General Meeting, which is normally attended by the full Board of Directors.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders toquestion the Chairmen of the Board, Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Corporate Governance and Nominations Committees.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys yearend is valuable.
The notice of Annual General Meeting at page 72 sets out the business of the meeting.
Going concern The Directors have not adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts as they plan to return most of the Companys assets to shareholders by way of a series of tender offers and associated repurchases, before placing the Company in liquidation.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a period of one year.
The period selected was considered appropriate as it is expected that the Company will appoint aliquidator within the next 12 months.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will not continue in operation, although it should meet its obligations as they fall due over the period of assessment.
16 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 SVG Capital plc Interim Report 2016 Corporate information Audit and Risk Committee report The Audit and Risk Committee, chaired by Stephen Duckett, consists of the nonexecutive Directors other than the Chairman and meets at least four times each year.
Given the shorter reporting period, it met three times.
Details of attendance at the meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee can be found on page 16.
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
In particular, Stephen Duckett has significant private equity experience which is relevant in assessing the valuations of underlying investments.
Simon Bax is a chartered accountant.
Further details on the experience and qualifications of members of the Committee can be found on pages 12 and 13.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee has recent and relevant financial expertise.
The Committees responsibilities include reviewing the methodologies used in valuing the Companys investments by underlying fund managers, monitoring changes in accounting practices and policies and reviewing decisions with a significant element of judgement.
In addition, the Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for ensuring the Companys risk monitoring programme, internal audit processes and regulatory compliance arrangements are appropriate.
Further details of the work performed in this area can be found on page 8.
The Audit and Risk Committee has responsibility for the oversight of the external audit function.
At the request of the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee provides confirmation to the Board through a summary presented at board meetings as to how it has discharged its responsibilities so that the Board can be satisfied that information presented in the Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
During the year, the Committee met three times.
It reviewed: the 2016 annual and semiannual report and accounts: periodic risk monitoring and IT security reports: and various Group policies.
During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year ended 9 December 2016, the Audit and Risk Committee considered the following significant issues, including those communicated by the auditors during their reporting: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Accounting for the asset transfer transaction with HarbourVest Management accounted for the transaction in accordance with Structured Solutions III L. P. HarbourVest applicable accounting standards.
The auditors undertook a thorough review of all relevant documentation relating to the transaction and considered the appropriateness of all adjustments.
The split between receivables and investment balances as at 9December 2016 was checked and all cash receipts were vouched to subsequent bank statements.
The Audit Committee questioned management, reviewed the accounts and reviewed and considered the auditors report.
The Board reviewed the Audit Committees work.
Implementation of the liquidation basis of preparation of the Management prepared the financial statements on a liquidation financial statements basis in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The auditors reviewed: managements assessment of the recoverability of assets and those expenses directly related to the liquidation process: managements analysis of forecast income and expenses throughout the period to liquidation: the criteria for recognition of contingent liabilities and the process for identifying liabilities: the financial statements to ensure they were in accordance with the liquidation basis of preparation.
The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation ofthe financial statements.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 17 Corporate information Corporate governance report Continued The Audit and Risk Committee has a primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and removal of external auditors.
Representatives of the Companys auditors attended the Audit and Risk Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report and Accounts were considered.
Prior to that, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee met with the audit partner to discuss the criteria that the FRC recommends be used in assessing auditor effectiveness.
Having reviewed the performance of the external auditors, including assessing the quality of work, timing of communications, work with management and the relevant FRC guidance, the Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
While it is unlikely that a further audit will be required before liquidation, the Audit Committee considers it prudent to seek shareholder approval for their reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The current audit firm has audited the Companys financial statements since 1996.
The Company put out the role of auditors to tender in 2012 and the incumbent auditors were reappointed.
The auditor provides nonaudit services to the Company, including tax and regulatory services.
The Audit and Risk Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply nonaudit services to the Company.
Certain nonaudit services are not permitted.
Certain types of nonaudit services, including any nonaudit service with a fee of greater than the lower of 50,000 or 25% of the most recent annual audit fee for the Company, must be referred to the Audit and Risk Committee for preapproval.
Certain types of nonaudit services such as tax compliance services need not be referred to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers whether any engagement of the auditor for nonaudit services will impair objectivity and independence and seeks written confirmation from the auditor on its policies and procedures for maintaining independence.
It is not considered that the independence of the auditor has been prejudiced by the provision of nonaudit services during the period.
The total amount of fees paid to the auditor with respect to the provision of nonaudit services was 191,000 in the period for tax advisory services around VAT and the review of the Companys halfyear report and certain comfort required in connection with the takeover offer and the tender offer series.
Terms of Reference of the Audit and Risk Committee may be found on the Companys website, www.
The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal control is set out on page 8.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order.
Stephen Duckett Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 2 February 2017 Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee report The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board on the Boards composition and balance of skill and experience, and on individual appointments, leads the process and makes recommendations to the Board.
It also monitors the Companys compliance with corporate governance guidelines.
The Committee considered an evaluation of the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company in the Board succession planning.
It considered the impact of the Companys change of investment objective on the optimal size of the Board.
Simon Bax will be stepping down as a director at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee considers the Board will be of an adequate size, with appropriate skills, following the departure of Simon Bax.
The Committee reviewed the corporate governance disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee has responsibility for monitoring boardroom diversity, of which gender diversity is an important element.
Two of the six Board Directors are women and the Company will seek to maintain at least a 25% proportion of female Board membership.
The Boards aim is to have a diverse Board in terms of gender, industry experience, skills and educational background.
David Robins Chairman, Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee 2 February 2017 18 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 SVG Capital plc Interim Report 2016
