GOVERNANCE Board of Directors N A Johnson 67 C G MacLean 53 S G Bennett 52 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Position and date of appointment: Position and date of appointment: Position and date of appointment: Chairmanof the Board and the Nomination ChiefExecutive Officer since January 2015: ChiefFinancial Officer since May 2015: member andDisclosure Committees.
Neil joined the member of the Disclosure Committee.
Board in 2011 and was appointed Chairman Key appointments: No external appointments.
Key appointments: No external appointments.
Skills and experience: Calum was previously Skills and experience: Stephen was previously Key appointments: Neil is Chairman asenior board executive of INEOS and was a at INEOS where he had been chief financial officer ofMotability Operations Group plc, e2v founder member of the business in 1998.
At at Petroineos Refining since 2006.
In addition technologies plc and Electra Private Equity plc INEOS he was most recently executive chairman tothis role, Stephen had acted as chief financial and the senior independent non-executive of INEOS Olefins and Polymers Europe and officer of INEOS Upstream Limited, a start-up director of the Business Growth Fund.
chairman of Styrolution, INEOSs joint venture oiland gas exploration business, and of INEOS Skills and experience: Neil held senior withBASF, and Petroineos Refining, INEOSs Olefins and Polymers South and INEOS Phenol.
executive positions at British Aerospace and jointventure with PetroChina.
Calum had been He joined Coopers & Lybrand in 1986 and is intheUK motor manufacturing industry before ChiefExecutive of a number of its principal aqualified chartered accountant.
He was at becoming Chief Executive of RAC Holdings business units and actively involved in merger and FullCircle Industries plc as company secretary from 1995-1999.
Neil has considerable acquisitions, strategy and implementation.
Prior to andgroup controller before moving to experience as an independent non-executive INEOS, he spent six years at Inspec International  LLP PwC in 1997 director and public company chairman gained Speciality Chemicals, a publicly listed company asadirector in transaction services.
At PwC, in multiple sectors andgeographies.
on the London Stock Exchangethat was originally hespecialised in public and private equity formed through amanagement buyout of transactions across a variety of sectors BPChemicals.
A G Catto 64 B W D Connolly 60 C A Johnstone 56 Non-executive director Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Position and date of appointment: Position and date of appointment: Position and date of appointment: Non-executive director since 1981.
SeniorIndependent non-executive director since  director since Key appointments: Alex is managing director January2014: Chairman of the Remuneration March2015: Chair ofthe Audit Committee: of CairnSea Investments Limited, a private Committee: member of the Audit, Disclosure member of the Nomination and Remuneration investment company, and a non-executive andNomination Committees.
director of several early stage companies that Key appointments: Brendan is Chairman Key appointments: Caroline is deputy chair, have been backed by CairnSea.
His current oftwoprivate equity backed companies.
non-executive director and chair of the Audit other directorships include Neptune Investment Skills and experience: Until June 2013 Brendan Committee of Leeds Teaching Hospital Trust: Management Limited.
was a senior executive at Intertek Group plc and provides consulting services to a range of global Skills and experience: Prior to the had previously been chief executive officer of chemical organisations: is a member of the establishment of CairnSea Alex was a director of Moody International which was acquired by governing council of the University of Leeds: and Morgan Grenfell & Co and then Lazard Brothers Intertek in 2011.
Prior to Moody, he was managing isa non-executive director of the Shepherd Group.
& Co Ltd. director of Atos Origin UK, and spent more than Skills and experience: Caroline was a partner at 25 years of his career with Schlumberger in senior PwC until 2009 having worked extensively with international roles over three continents.
Brendan large global organisations on turnaround strategy, has previous experience as chairman of the culture change, delivering value from mergers and remuneration committee of a UK listed company.
acquisitions and cost reduction programmes.
46 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Dato Lee Hau Hian 63 J Chen 64 Dr J J C Jansz 60 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Nationality: Malaysian Nationality: Chinese American Nationality: Dutch Position and date of appointment: Position and date of appointment: Independent Position and date of appointment: Non-executive director since 2002: first joined non-executive director since October 2012.
Independent non-executive director since theboard in 1993 and stood down in 2000 Key appointments: Jinya is a corporate vice April2012: member of the Audit and tobecome an alternate director.
president at Alcoa Inc based in Shanghai and Remuneration Committees.
Key appointments: Hau Hian is a Director of aboard member of Zhong Nan University.
Key appointments: Just is founder and Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd and is the president Skills and experience: Jinya practised as a US managing director of Expertise Beyond Borders ofthe Perak Chinese Maternity Association.
He attorney and then spent 12 years in a series of legal BV, an independent business and technology also serves as a Director of Yayasan fide La Salle.
and operational roles at General Motors and Delphi management consultancy, providing services Skills and experience: Hau Hian is the Corporation in China before joining Alcoa in 2007. globally to chemical and polymer companies.
Managing Director of Batu Kawan Bhd, Heis a senior advisor at Natrium Capital UK alistedMalaysian investments holding andSiluria Technologies US.
company, with interests in plantations Skills and experience: Just has over 30 years andchemicals manufacturing.
chemical industry experience at Shell, Basell andLyondellBasell.
Until July 2010 Just was president, technology business, and a member ofthe management team of LyondellBasell, overseeing process technology licensing, polyolefin catalysts and new ventures.
Just has previous experience as a non-executive director inthe US and as an advisor in Saudi Arabia.
R Atkinson 54 Company Secretary Nationality: British Position and date of appointment: CompanySecretary since 1998: Group ChiefCounsel.
Skills and experience: Richard qualified as a solicitor in 1988 practising as a corporate lawyer before moving into industry.
