GOVERNANCE Corporate governance DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES CHAIRMAN primarily responsible for the working and effectiveness of the Board facilitating an effective contribution from the non-executive directors and a constructive relationship with the executive directors ensuring the balance of membership of the Board is appropriate ensuring that the Board is in full control of the Companys affairs and has an effective dialogue with itsshareholders leading on all aspects of corporate governance CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER senior executive responsible for operational management of the Group development, preparation and implementation of the Groups strategy as approved by the Board communication of the Groups culture and values communicating the Groups financial performance to investors in conjunction with the  keeping the Board fully informed of all material issues SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR to be available to shareholders when concerns have not been resolved through normal channels to lead the annual appraisal of the Chairman to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders to provide a sounding board for the Chairman NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS to bring an independent and objective judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources of the Group to challenge constructively and scrutinise management performance BOARD RESERVED MATTERS setting of long term objectives and strategies to be employed in achieving them including the approval of annual budgets policy setting for safety, health and environmental matters, business conduct, diversity and human rights, recruitment and employment, risk management and treasury material decisions on capital raising, financial commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement of litigation approval of information contained in communications to shareholders the review and monitoring of performance BOARD NOMINATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMPANY SECRETARY provides advice and services to the Board and its Committees supports the Chairman in all governance matters CEO EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Chief Company Executive Vice Vice President Vice Vice Financial Secretary & Vice President Americas and President President Officer Chief President Europe Middle East, Specialities, Operations Counsel Asia Investor Business Relationsand Development Communications & Global HR Director 48 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION During 2016 the Board held eight meetings with a half day In addition, arrangements are made each year for the Board dedicated to an annual strategy development review.
The directors tovisitup to two of the Groups operational sites and meet local receive in advance full information on all matters to be discussed management.
Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for individual atBoard meetings as well as a detailed review of performance.
During 2016 the Board held Thenon-executive directors met once without the Chairman oneof its meetings in the Czech Republic and in conjunction with toappraise his performance.
that Board meeting visited the Companys plant in Sokolov where presentations were given by local senior management and a plant tour took place.
BOARD ACTIVITY IN 2016 SUPPORTING OUR STRATEGY SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT SHE INVESTING IN ORGANIC GROWTH GROWTH THROUGH ACQUISITION Review and approval of SHE Material capital expenditure projects are The $221 million acquisition of PAC Principlesand 10 Golden Rules.
subject to Board review and approval.
was subject to detailed review and SHEperformance and initiatives are During the year investment in capacity approval and ongoing post completion reviewed at every meeting supported expansion projects costing 45 million in integration monitoring.
Several bolt-on by a written report and presentation Malaysia and 17 million in Germany acquisition opportunities were reviewed by the Vice President for Operations.
and the deal log was monitored at every meeting.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE LEADERSHIP AND PEOPLE GOVERNANCE AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Financial and operational performance Succession planning processes and As well as routine reports on governance and strategic initiatives are reviewed progress were reviewed with support and investor relations matters, systems atevery meeting supported by reports from the Global HR Director.
The and procedures in connection with the and presentations from the executive implementation and outcome of Market Abuse Regulation were directors.
Detailed reviews of specific Wellness programmes for senior approved: developments in CSR and business areas were provided by the management were reviewed.
non-financial reporting were reviewed: responsible vice president in conjunction the re-appointment of the auditor with budget and strategy discussions following a competitive tender process and capital expenditure project reviews.
was approved: and a new proposed executive remuneration policy reviewed.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISKMANAGEMENT INNOVATION As well as receiving regular reports from The Groups global innovation strategy the Audit Committee on the Companys and new product pipeline was reviewed internal control and risk management and discussed with the Global processes the potential issues arising InnovationDirector.
from Brexit and associated mitigation steps were considered.
SITE VISITS The Board visited the plant at Sokolov, Czech Republic, newly acquired in 2016 as part of the PAC acquisition.
Visits were made by individual non-executive directors to the Groups plants in Malaysia and the UK.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 49 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND BALANCE INDUCTION AND TRAINING The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Independent Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure new Director together with Chairs and members of the Audit, directors receive a full formal and tailored induction on appointment.
Nomination, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees are The Chairman reviews and agrees the training and development identified on pages 46 and 47.
The Board considers Caroline needs of the directors and the skills and knowledge of the Board Johnstone, Just Jansz, Jinya Chen and Brendan Connolly are asa whole are updated by briefings provided by the Companys independent inaccordance with the provisions of the Code.
internal resources and materials, workshops and seminars offered by external advisers.
During 2016 briefings were delivered to theBoard on the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation, Non-executive directors are appointed for one-year terms.
All developments in corporate governance reporting and governance directors submit themselves for annual election at each Annual and best practice in remuneration.
The Audit Committee was General Meeting.
provided with updates and workshop training provided by PwC LLP.
As no directors were appointed during the year no induction training A BALANCED BOARD was required to be given.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CHAIRMAN Overview Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and EXECUTIVE AND itsdirectors were carried out in the last year by the following INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE NON-INDEPENDENT internalprocesses: DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS an assessment of the performance of individual non-executive directors is carried out by the Chairman through a rolling Caroline Johnstone Calum MacLean programme of one-to-one discussions using performance evaluation questions as the centrepiece for those discussions.
Just Jansz Stephen Bennett Every non-executive director is assessed in this way once a year: the performance of the executive directors was reviewed against their personal objectives for 2016 by the non-executive directors Jinya Chen Alex Catto and the Chairman: a meeting of the non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman chaired by the Senior Independent Director was held Brendan Connolly Lee Hau Hian to evaluate the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors: and the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration was evaluated by way of an internal self-assessment questionnaire process.
The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, Audit, BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION PROCESS Remuneration Nomination and Disclosure Committees held during the For the second year following the externally facilitated evaluation year and the number of meetings attended by each director.
Where a process carried out in 2014 the effectiveness of the Board and its director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting his or her Committees was assessed internally in 2016.
Questionnaires were views on agenda items are canvassed in advance of the meeting and developed and produced by the Company Secretary in conjunction incorporated into the discussions.
The non-executive directors disclose with the Chairman of the Board and the Chair of each of the Audit, to the Board their other significant commitments.
The questionnaire comprised open questions on the workings and effectiveness Committees oftheBoard and its Committees.
All directors were requested tocomplete questionnaires relating to the Board and each of the Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Disclosure Committees.
In addition regular attendees from management at Number of theAudit Committee meetings were also requested to complete meetings held 8 4 3 1 5 thequestionnaire relating to that Committee.
A report was prepared Number of by the Company Secretary for the Chairman and the results of the meetings evaluation were reviewed and discussed at the Board meeting attended heldin January 2017.
The outcome of that process led to a number Stephen Bennett 8 8 N A N A N A 5 5 ofactions and areas for focus in 2017 which are outlined in the Chairmans letter on page 44.
Alex Catto 7 8 N A N A N A N A Jinya Chen 6 8 N A N A N A N A For 2017 the Board has committed to carrying out an externally Brendan Connolly 7 8 4 4 3 3 1 1 5 5 facilitated evaluation process.
Just Jansz 8 8 4 4 3 3 N A N A Neil Johnson 8 8 N A N A 1 1 4 5 Caroline Johnstone 7 8 4 4 3 3 1 1 N A Lee Hau Hian 8 8 N A N A N A N A Calum MacLean 8 8 N A N A N A 5 5 50 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BOARD COMMITTEES Information on the Companys major shareholdings and share The Board has formally established Nomination, Audit, capital is included in the Report of the Directors on pages 76to78.
Remuneration and Disclosure Committees, each with their own terms of reference which set out their respective roles and the ACCOUNTABILITY authority delegated to them by the Board.
Copies of the terms of An explanation of the directors responsibility for preparing the reference are available upon request from the Company Secretary financial statements, their report that the business is a going and can also be downloaded from the Companys website.
All concern, a viability statement, a responsibility statement and their non-executive directors have a standing invitation to attend statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor are set out Committee meetings unless they are notified otherwise.
on pages 77 to 78 and 79 respectively.
Statements by the auditor about its reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 80 to 84 The Board Committee reports are set out at the end of this and 128 and 129 respectively.
A report on the approach to internal control is set out below.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS TheDirectors endeavour to make the Annual Report and financial Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular statements as informative and understandable as possible.
basisby the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and meetings take place following the announcement of interim Risk management and internal control andfull year results and at other times according to circumstances.
The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the Groups In addition to interim and full year reporting the Board has decided systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing to continue with the practice of providing interim management their effectiveness and sets appropriate policies to ensure that the statements notwithstanding that it is no longer a regulatory Code requirements are met.
The systems of risk management and requirement to do so.
A capital markets day was held in December internal control deployed within the Group are designed to reduce 2016 and provided an opportunity for investors and analysts to the risks of failure to meet business objectives, but these risks hearpresentations from senior members of management as well cannot be eliminated.
The risk management and internal control asthe executive directors.
systems adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance about meeting such business objectives or The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication against material mis-statement or loss.
The Group risk management principles in order to ensure that Board members develop an framework is set out on pages 28 to 29.
Risks associated with understanding of the views of the Groups major shareholders.
safety, health and the environment are, by the nature of the Groups These principles require the Chairman to be present with the business, always of the utmost concern and the Sustainability ChiefExecutive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer at sufficient report on pages 20 to 27 reviews the Groups performance in this shareholder presentations and meetings that he fully understands connection in 2016.
The Board confirms that arobust assessment the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Alternatively, the of the principal risks facing the Group hasbeen carried out and that Chairman is also available for meetings with major shareholders it has monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk attheir request.
management and internal control systems in 2016.
The Chief Executive Officer reports on shareholder relations at The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and eachBoard meeting.
Communications with shareholders relating consolidation processes are designed under the supervision of the tocorporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding with the assistance of the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair Committees.
Details of the interaction with shareholders by the presentation of the Groups published financial statements for Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in connection external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
with the competitive tender process for the audit and the proposed new executive director remuneration policy respectively are given in The processes which are used by the Board either directly or, the reports by those Committees.
Written reports on all meetings whereappropriate, through the Audit Committee to review the between non-executive directors and institutional shareholders effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems andtheir representative bodies are presented to the Board at the in relation to the financial reporting process and the process for first opportunity following such meetings as is all correspondence preparing consolidated accounts include the following: with them.
a review of the external and internal audit work plans: The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they consideration of reports from management and external parties, have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the including the internal and external auditor, on the system of Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve or for internal financial control and any material control weaknesses: which such contact is inappropriate.
discussion with management of the actions taken on any possible problem areas for the business that are identified.
The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, andin particular private investors, at the Companys Annual In addition, the Board: GeneralMeeting and endeavours to ensure all Board members are in attendance.
In particular, the Chairs of the Remuneration, Audit receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee andNomination Committees are available to answer questions.
meetings: receives regular written and oral reports from management The Company makes use of its website www.
com onallaspects of production, operations, financial and risk tocommunicate with its shareholders and also publishes interim management matters.
and full year results, Company announcements, share price and corporate governance and other investor information there.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 51 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS The maintenance of high standards of environmental together withhealth and safety protection is central to the Groups business.
AUDIT Aseparate statement on safety, health and environmental SHE matters has been a feature of the Annual Report for a number ofyears.
The Sustainability report on pages 20 to 27 includes COMMITTEE areport on the initiatives the Group has adopted regarding sustainable development.
Caroline Johnstone SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS MATTERS Audit Committee Chair The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part ofitsreview of internal control which, by virtue of its approach toriskidentification, covers areas which encompass social and ethical matters.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities Membership since 1 January 2016 inwhich the Groups businesses operate and encourages local Number of engagement by management which includes supporting Appointment meetings environmental, health and education initiatives.
Position Date attended Caroline Johnstone Chair April 2015 4 4 The Board is also aware of the reputational and legal risks Just Jansz Independent May 2012 4 4 associated with social and ethical issues and has a Group-wide non-executive director code of business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive Brendan Connolly Senior independent March 2014 4 4 non-executive director activities, which is available on the Companys website and upon request from the Company Secretary.
The purpose of this code is Other attendees: toensure that the Groups employees have a clear understanding Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary ofthe principles that are important in these areas when conducting the Groups business.
The application of the code is explained to Chief Financial Officer Group Operational ReviewManager senior management at regular intervals and they are charged with its communication throughout their businesses supported by Vice President, Tax and Financial Reporting External Auditors internal and external training.
A compliance procedure involving annual certification by senior management and a procedure for DEAR SHAREHOLDER maintaining a register of, and where appropriate gaining prior I am pleased to report on the work of the Committee in 2016, approval for, gifts, entertainment and corporate hospitality operates my first full year as Chair.
A report is made to the Audit Committee annually on the code and the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
The Committee has continued to focus on the Groups internal controls and its approach to risk management.
We recognise The Groups operating activities are highly regulated in all territories just how important this is in periods of change as the Group and largely carried out in countries that have established legislation evolves and grows in line with our agreed strategy.
We have on human rights issues.
As such, information on human rights supported the Board in overseeing both the PAC acquisition issues is not considered to be necessary for an understanding and the significant capital expenditure projects in Malaysia and ofthe development, performance or position of the Groups Germany.
During the year, good progress was made by the business.
The Group has nonetheless adopted a policy on equal Committee in overseeing and supporting the refreshing of the opportunities, diversity and human rights which is available at Group finance, IT and internal audit functions carried out by the www.
Like many Committees, we started to consider the implications of Brexit, both short and longer term.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
The main activities of the Committee during the year comprised the discharge of its duties in connection with financial reporting, internal controls and risk management systems and the external and internal audit functions.
During the first half of the year theCommittee took primary responsibility for the competitive tender process for the external audit which resulted in the re-appointment of PwC.
I found the process of great value and was grateful for the discussions we held with the Standard Life Investments governance team during the process.
I would like to thank all the teams from the three firms who worked through the tender process and who provided valuable input tothe Committee.
In August, I was pleased to welcome Matt Mullins as our new lead engagement partner.
Further details ofthe tender process are contained in this report on page 54.
52 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Making recommendations to the Board regarding the selection The Committee had particular focus on risk management and IT and appointment of the external auditor, approving their including cyber security during the year and had the benefit of remuneration and terms of engagement, reviewing and presentations from and discussions with those members of the monitoring their independence, objectivity and the effectiveness management team charged with responsibilities in these areas, of the audit process.
including regular reports from the Chief Information Officer who Developing and implementing the Groups policy on the was appointed in April 2016.
The co-sourced internal audit model engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
operated since 2012 was reviewed by the Committee and Chief Ensuring that the external audit services contract is put out to Financial Officer and it was agreed to replace it with a dedicated tender at least once every ten years.
in-house resource, following which a Group Operational Review Supporting the Board in considering whether the published Manager was appointed in August 2016 after approval by the financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and Committee.
In conjunction with this appointment, the Committee understandable and provide the information necessary for has also approved a new internal audit charter.
shareholders to assess the performance of the Group, along withits business model and strategy.
The Committee was requested by the Board to extend its remit to include taxation matters and a proposal for the terms of MEETINGS reference is in the course of preparation.
Other activities during The Chief Financial Officer, Stephen Bennett, senior members the year included adoption of a new policy on non-audit services ofhisdepartment and the Group Operational Review Manager provided by the auditors as a result of the introduction into UK normally attend meetings of the Committee together with members law of the EU audit framework.
We also took the opportunity to of the external audit team.
The head of IT has attended many of the undertake training workshops on developments in accounting, Committee meetings in 2016 to discuss progress in developing our governance and corporate reporting.
Other members of the Board have a standing invitation to attend meetings unless notified otherwise.
This year, we decided to undertake an evaluation of the The Committee meets periodically with the external auditor and Committees performance using an internal questionnaire withthe Group Operational Review Manager without management process.
In general, the feedback was positive about our activities present.
Ialso have regular meetings with PwC, Stephen Bennett and approach but we recognise that the extending scope of the aswell as othersenior managers of the Group.
activities and responsibilities of the Committee necessitates the need for sufficient time to be set aside.
As such we will likely hold ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR additional informal meetings on key topics going forward.
We will The Committee met formally four times during 2016 and carried out also revisit the Groups risk appetite statement in 2017.
For 2017 the following main activities in addition to the items mentioned in the the Committee will continue its focus on the risk management Chairmans overview: review processes and the development of the internal audit.
Reviewed the financial statements in the 2015 Annual Report and We set out further details of our work in the following pages.
the 2016 interim statement in conjunction with papers prepared by the Chief Financial Officer regarding accounting policies and CAROLINE JOHNSTONE basis of preparation and a number of disclosure considerations: Audit Committee Chairman Advised the Board in connection with its obligation under Section 6 March 2017 C. 1.1 of the Code: Reviewed the scope and effectiveness of the external audit: Received reports from the external auditor on the major findings of its work: COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Approved the annual external audit plan and the basis on which The Committee is made up of Caroline Johnstone chair, Brendan the auditor assesses materiality: Connolly and Just Jansz their experience is set out on page 46.
Approved a new policy on the provision of non-audit services Mrs Johnstone is considered by the Board to have recent and bythe external auditor: relevant financial experience for the purposes of Provision C. 3.1 Reviewed the remit and effectiveness of the Committee: ofthe Code as a chartered accountant and due to her previous Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and position as a partner at PwC.
The Committee members have a anti-bribery and corruption procedures: widerange of financial and commercial experience in chemicals Reviewed the Groups Risk Register: andengineering sectors.
Reviewed the IT control environment and IT systems security: Monitored the effectiveness of internal controls and risk THE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE management: The Committee has established a detailed remit regarding the Reviewed the Groups internal audit plan: and application of financial reporting and internal control principles, Received reviews undertaken by the Group Operational Review which covers: Manager.
Reviewed reports relating to the implementation of recommendations from KPMG, the co-sourced internal auditor, to Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group enable the Committee to assess the improvements in the Groups and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial controls and reporting and where further actions are required.
performance and results and reviewing significant financial Ensured that the provisions of the Competition and Market reporting issues and judgements contained in them.
Authority Audit Order relating to competitive tender processes Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal and audit committee responsibilities were complied with controls and risk management systems as well as the Groups throughout 2016. internal audit function.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 53 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee continued In addition the Chair of the Committee had regular dialogue with the AUDITOR OBJECTIVITY AND INDEPENDENCE external auditor, Chief Financial Officer and other senior members of Non-audit services provided by the auditor the head office finance team during the course of the year.
With effect from 1 January 2017 the Committee has adopted a policy on the provision of nonaudit services by the external auditor that the auditor can be engaged, subject to prior approval of the TENDER OF EXTERNAL AUDIT Committee in all cases, to provide services which are outside the In my last report, I indicated that we intended to carry out a required scope of the statutory audit but are consistent with the role competitive tender process in the first half of 2016.
As the audit of statutory auditor.
This category includes work that is reasonably partner was due to rotate in 2017 and given the Groups aspirations related to the performance of an audit or review and is a logical and strategy as well as a new Committee Chair and CFO, we extension of the audit or review scope, is of an assurance or decided it was appropriate to review the market and ensure compliance nature and is work that the auditor must or are best wehadthe right team for the future.
placed to undertake eg reporting accountant activities in connection with shareholder circulars and prospectuses.
The auditor is The tender process was carried out in compliance with the prohibited from providing all other nonaudit services.
provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 and had regard to governance best practice.
The Companys major A full copy of the policy on the provision of non-audit services by the shareholders were consulted in advance on the process.
We had external auditor is available on the Company website.
discussions with major shareholders as the process developed.
In addition the auditor has been requested not to provide services The Audit Committee had primary responsibility for the process toexecutive directors or senior executives except where approved andmet regularly through the process.
A tender sub-committee, by the Audit Committee.
Non-executive directors are required comprising the Chair of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the todisclose any relationship they have with the auditor.
Board and the Chief Financial Officer, was appointed to develop the evaluation criteria, the request for proposal documentation and to Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor in 2016 are have oversight of presentations by those firms invited totender.
Non-audit fees principally relate to Support for the process, including the supply of information and advisory work in connection with the PAC acquisition and tax relevant background knowledge to the audit firms, was given by compliance and other tax advisory services which were approved theAudit Committee Chair, the Chief Financial Officer and the within the terms of theCommittees policy in force during 2016.
The principles under which the tender was to PwC were awarded theacquisition related work following a beoperated and the process to be followed were clearly defined at competitive tender process.
the outset in order to ensure efficiency, fairness and transparency.
ASSESSMENT OF EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT Evaluation criteria against which firms were scored comprised During the year the Committee evaluated the performance, experience including geographical and chemical industry, firm independence and effectiveness of the external auditors.
As part specific audit processes, added value resources and commitment ofthis process feedback was obtained from head office and to the relationship and encompassed those contained in the FRC operating company staff involved with the external audit and from Audit Tenders Notes on best practice.
Following presentations and the Committees meetings with the external auditors.
A review of question and answer sessions involving three firms, a unanimous performance against an evaluation checklist was also conducted recommendation to retain PwC was made to and accepted by the bythe Audit Committee Chair and the Chief Financial Officer.
The process was initiated at the Audit Committees meeting Committee assessed the robustness of the audit, the quality of on 27 April 2016 and culminated with the announcement of the delivery of the audit against the agreed plan and the competence outcome on 31 May 2016. with which the auditors handle key accounting and audit adjustments.
Considering all of these factors the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective.
RE-APPOINTMENT OF THE AUDITOR As a result of an external audit tender process in 2012 PwC was first appointed in July that year.
Following the tender carried out in 2016 and the assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit referred to above the Committee is pleased to recommend the re-appointment of PwC at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
54 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS As part of their monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, the Committee reviews whether suitable accounting NOMINATION policies have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements and also considers the viewsof the external auditors.
COMMITTEE The main issues reviewed in the year ended 31 December 2016 areset out below: Neil Johnson Chairman Provisions for uncertain taxation positions: Significant judgement is exercised by management, with advicefrom appropriate tax advisors, to arrive at the amounts provided for tax as the final tax outcome of several transactions isuncertain and may not be known for several years.
As part of NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP their audit, the external auditor reviewed the judgements that had Since 1 January 2016 been made, using tax specialists as appropriate, and provided Number of the Committee with an assessment of the appropriateness Appointment meetings ofmanagement judgements.
The Committee reviewed the Position Date attended provisions and judgements taken by management and also Neil Johnson Chair May 2012 1 1 theauditors conclusions.
Brendan Connolly Senior independent March 2014 1 1 non-executive director Defined benefit pension accounting: Caroline Johnstone Audit Committee Chair April 2015 1 1 The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes whichhave significant liabilities as outlined in note 26 to the ROLE Groupfinancial statements.
Although the UK schemes are The Committees remit includes responsibility for: closedto future accrual, they are sensitive to changes in actuarial assumptions.
During their audit, the external auditor evaluated the regular review of the structure, size and composition theassumptions and methodologies used by the Groups including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of actuarial advisors and management and assessed whether the the Board and the making of recommendations with regard assumptions made were appropriate and not materially different to any changes: from external benchmarks.
The external auditors reported to us leading the process for Board appointments and nominating that they were satisfied with the assumptions used and with the candidates for non-executive positions: and way that the schemes had been accounted for.
The Committee considering succession planning for directors and senior reviewed the assumptions used by the management, executives and reviewing the succession plans put forward for methodology and conclusions.
ensuring the executive leadership needs of the Company are met.
Purchase of business: ACTIVITIES IN 2016 The accounting for the acquisition of the PAC business and for The Committee reviewed senior management succession the disposal of the South African business is shown in the notes planning within the Group during the course of the year.
As 31 and 32 to the accounts respectively.
For the acquisition, the there were no appointments to the Board during the year the assets and liabilities have been included at fair value with the Committee was not involved in any recruitment activity and did balance of consideration shown as goodwill.
KPMG LLP were not appoint or work with any advisers.
engaged to advise on the fair value of the Property, Plant and Equipment PPE.
Overall their conclusion was that the total fair The Nomination Committee held one formal meeting during 2016. value of the PPE was in line with the carrying values although DIVERSITY there were some differences in asset categories which have been The Board adopted its current policy on diversity in 2014 in adjusted accordingly.
KPMG LLP also performed a valuation of recognition of the importance of diversity in strengthening decision the intangibles, of which the only one of significant value was the making and competitiveness.
This policy seeks to ensure that customer relationships.
diversity in its broadest sense is taken into account in the process ofmaking appointments on merit against objective selection criteria.
Gender is acknowledged as a significant element of diversity and the Committee is mindful of the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander review published in November 2016 but has not recommended to the Board the setting of quotas for female representation at this time.
A copy of the diversity policy is available at www.
Further details on the Companys approach to diversity are contained within the Strategic report.
NEIL JOHNSON Chairman 6 March 2017 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 55
