Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Corporate Governance 1.
Committee governance Nominations Responsibilities The Committee assists the Board by reviewing the size and Committee Report composition of the Board, including succession planning, and the leadership needs of the Group generally, recommending candidates for appointment as directors and as Company Secretary and reviewing annually the performance of each member of the Executive Committee.
Further details on its responsibilities are in the Committees terms of reference, on the Companys website, www.
Composition Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman of the Nominations Committee During the financial year under review, the Committee comprised the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive and all Dear shareholder independent directors.
The Company Secretary, Lucie Gilbert, is the secretary to the Committee.
A key area of focus for the Nominations Meetings during the year Committee during the year was building Meetings are generally held around the time of scheduled Board on the skills and experience of the Board meetings.
The Committee held five scheduled meetings during as we progress the delivery of the the year and also met on one additional occasion to discuss the progress of the search for additional non-executive directors.
The Committee has also met once since the end of the financial Following Virginia Kamskys decision to step down to focus on year and prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
the requirements of her increased executive responsibilities, we undertook a review of the current and future needs of the Attendance during the year was as follows: Board and its Committees, considering the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and Number of Number of identified areas that we felt were essential or highly desirable Directors as at Date of appointment meetings meetings 31 March 2016 to the Committee attended held in potential candidates, including a detailed understanding of the global food ingredients industry and also general Sir Peter Gershon Chr 1 February 2009 6 6 commercial and financial experience.
We recognised the Javed Ahmed 1 October 2009 6 6 considerable benefits of gender, age and cultural diversity Liz Airey 1 January 2007 6 6 and agreed that any new directors would need to fit with the William Camp 1 May 2010 6 6 culture of the Group and further supplement the range of Douglas Hurt 9 March 2010 6 6 thinking styles around the boardroom table.
Once we had Paul Forman 1 January 2015 6 6 established our needs, we concluded that it would be 1 Anne Minto 1 December 2012 5 6 necessary to search for two additional non-executive directors.
Our process is set out in more detail in this report Dr Ajai Puri 1 April 2012 6 6 and Lars Frederiksen and Sybella Stanley were appointed Former Committee member as non-executive directors with effect from 1 April 2016.
2 Virginia Kamsky 1 December 2012 1 1 We also reviewed the succession needs of the full Board.
1 Unable to attend one meeting called at short notice due to an existing I have been Chairman since July 2009 and the Nominations board commitment.
Committee has commenced the process for identifying my 2 Ceased to be a director on 1 July 2015. successor.
This search process is being led by the Senior Lars Frederiksen and Sybella Stanley joined the Committee on 1April 2016.
Independent Director, Liz Airey, and the exact timing of the appointment of my successor will depend on identifying the The Executive VP Human Resources and the VP Global Talent are appropriate candidate.
invited to attend and present to the Committee on an ad hoc basis, depending on the issues being discussed.
As part of the annual review process, we also considered the effectiveness of the Committee.
It was noted that the new Effectiveness process changes we had identified last year were appropriate The Committee Chairman and Company Secretary led a review and that the Committee was operating effectively.
of the Committees effectiveness and the output was discussed by the Committee.
This concluded that the Committee continued Sir Peter Gershon Chairman of the Nominations Committee to operate effectively.
Work undertaken during the year The Committee maintains a calendar of items for consideration at each meeting.
This is regularly reviewed and updated.
This Committee report is structured as follows: Board composition appointments of Lars Frederiksen 1.
Committee governance and Sybella Stanley 2.
W ork undertaken during the year The introduction from the Committee Chairman set out the circumstances in which the Committee agreed to search for two additional non-executive directors during the year.
The Committee retained Spencer Stuart to assist them with the search.
Spencer Stuart is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and has a good understanding of the Groups business as it has previously assisted in the identification of individuals to fill a non-executive director role and other senior executive roles.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 59
