Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance Corporate Governance LEADERSHIP Our governance structure The Groups primary decision-making body is the Board.
It is accountable to shareholders for the Groups financial and operational performance, and responsible for setting the strategy and ensuring that risk is managed effectively.
The Board maintains a schedule of items which it is required to consider and approve.
This schedule is regularly reviewed and updated to reflect corporate governance development and emerging practice.
As shown in the diagram below, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to a number of committees.
The Board retains overall accountability and the Committee Chairmen are responsible for reporting back to the Board on the Committees activities.
Minutes of the Committees meetings are made available to all directors on the web-based Board portal.
BOARD COMMITTEES Accountable to shareholders for the Groups financial and operational performance The Board Sets the Groups strategy Chaired by Oversees managements implementation of the strategy Sir Peter Gershon Monitors the operational and financial performance of the Group Sets the Groups risk appetite Ensures that appropriate risk management systems and internal controls are in place Sets the Groups culture of ethical behaviour and agrees the Groups Values Ensures good corporate governance practices are in place Audit Committee Corporate Nominations Remuneration Chief Executive Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Chaired by Chaired by Chaired by Chaired by Douglas Hurt Sir Peter Gershon William Camp Anne Minto O versees financial Makes recommendations Oversees a range of Recommends the reporting, internal to the Board regarding operational controls Groups remuneration financial controls and the structure, size, and risk management policy for executive risk management composition and systems, focusing directors.
Sets and systems, the risk succession needs on safety, product monitors the level management process, of the Board and its quality, cyber security, and structure of the internal audit Committees.
Reviews environmental remuneration for the function and the the performance of performance and executive directors Groups relationship the executive directors the implementation and other senior with the external and the members of the Code of Ethics.
of the Executive Chairmans fee.
Oversees succession planning for directors and senior management.
55 Read more 59 Read more 60 Read more 62 Read more Executive Committee Research Advisory Group Chaired by Javed Ahmed Chaired by Dr Ajai Puri Recommends strategic and operating plans to the Board Comprises external experts and senior Assists the executive directors in implementing the Tate&Lyle managers strategy agreed by the Board Reviews the innovation pipeline Monitors the performance of the two divisions and Provides insights into how leading-edge science and global support functions technology could enhance the Groups SFI portfolio Assesses and manages risk The Executive Committee is supported by a number of operational committees which may be permanent in nature, such as the Executive Safety Committee, the Executive Performance Management Committee and the Cyber Security Steering Committee.
Committees are also established for a finite period to oversee key strategic or operational priorities, such as the Global Operating Model Steering Committee.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 45 Governance Corporate Governance continued Key responsibilities Board meetings and activities during the year The Board comprises the Chairman, two executive directors The Board holds six scheduled meetings each year.
In the few and eight non-executive directors.
Their responsibilities are instances where a director is unable to attend a meeting, he or summarised below.
There is a clear division of responsibilities: she provides comments in advance to the Chariman.
Meetings the Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and the were held in London, at the Commercial and Food Innovation Chief Executive leads the business.
Centre in Chicago, USA, and at the manufacturing facility in Loudon, Tennessee to enable Directors to engage with Chairman, Sir Peter Gershon a wider management and employee base.
The Board also met Responsible for the effective operation, leadership and twice to discuss strategy.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, governance of the Board three Board meetings were arranged at shorter notice to consider Chairs Board meetings, Nominations Committee meetings matters requiring review and decision before the next scheduled and the Annual General Meeting meeting.
The Board also met once between the end of the Sets the Board agenda with the Chief Executive and financial year and prior to the date of the approval of this report.
Company Secretary Facilitates active engagement by all directors Sets the style and tone of Board discussions Ensures the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information Chief Executive, Javed Ahmed Responsible for proposing strategy to the Board and delivering it Runs the business Communicates the Boards expectations with regard to culture, Values and behaviours Ensures the Board is aware of the executive directors views on business issues Chief Financial Officer, Nick Hampton Responsible for the Groups financial affairs Contributes to the management of the Groups business Supports the Chief Executive with the development and implementation of the strategy Non-executive directors: Liz Airey, William Camp, Lars Frederiksen, Paul Forman, Douglas Hurt, Anne Minto, Dr Ajai Puri and Sybella Stanley BOARD VISIT TO MANUFACTURING Responsible for overseeing the delivery of the strategy within FACILITY IN LOUDON, TENNESSEE the risk appetite set by the Board Constructively challenge and advise the executive directors Senior Independent Director, Liz Airey In September 2015, the Board visited the Groups Responsible for ensuring that the Chairmans performance manufacturing facility in Loudon, Tennessee.
The Board is evaluated toured the plant, inspecting the progress of and plans for Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and supports him capital investment at the site, including the construction of in the delivery of his objectives a combined heat and power plant.
Directors gained a fuller Serves as an intermediary for other directors if necessary insight into the operation of the facility and its interactions Maintains a comprehensive understanding of the major issues with the local community and celebrated a safety milestone of shareholders and is available if shareholders have any over a lunch with staff.
concerns that they have been unable to resolve through the normal channels Company Secretary, Lucie Gilbert DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR Responsible for maintaining the governance and listing rules compliance framework Number Supports the Chairman, Chief Executive and Committee Number of of meetings Chairmen in setting agenda items for Board and Committee meetings eligible meetings Directors as at 31 March 2016 attended to attend Advises the Board on corporate governance, legislative and Sir Peter Gershon 9 9 regulatory developments Javed Ahmed 9 9 Assists the Chairman and the Chief Executive in ensuring Nick Hampton 9 9 that the directors are provided with relevant information 1 Liz Airey 8 9 in a timely manner William Camp 9 9 Organises new director induction and ongoing director training Paul Forman 9 9 Douglas Hurt 9 9 Anne Minto 9 9 Dr Ajai Puri 9 9 Former Director 2 Virginia Kamsky 3 3 1 Unable to attend one meeting called at short notice due to an existing commitment.
2 Ceased to be a director on 1 July 2015.
Lars Frederiksen and Sybella Stanley joined the Board on 1 April 2016.
46 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Corporate Governance BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2016 The diagram below shows the key areas of Board discussion during the year: Strategy Financial Held two strategy sessions focusing on Reconfirmed the Boards commitment to strategic progress and priorities, including the dividend policy and agreed proposed key growth drivers in Speciality Food dividends Ingredients and the commercialisation Considered and agreed treasury and tax of new products matters, including the US$400million Approved the re-alignment of the Eaststarch private placement in July 2015 corn wet milling joint venture in Europe Approved Annual Operating Plan for the year Approved the plan to refocus and ending 31 March 2017 restructure the SPLENDA Sucralose Approved the Annual Report 2015, the business, including the consolidation of halfand full-year results and associated production into the facility in Alabama, USA, announcements and presentations and the closure of the facility in Singapore in spring 2016 Reviewed the five-year plan Agreed the 2020 Ambition and the associated market communication Internal control Operational Commercial and risk management Reviewed the performance of the two business divisions Considered and agreed the Discussed the performance of Groups risk appetite and Board activity Global Operations following its Principal risks during the establishment in November 2014 Assessed the effectiveness of Approved capital expenditure the internal controls and risk year ended projects and considered management systems 31 March 2016 post-investment reviews Agreed the Viability statement Considered progress with as set out on page 31 material litigation Reviewed the development of the innovation pipeline Leadership and employees Governance, Stakeholders Approved the appointment of and Shareholders Lars Frederiksen and Sybella Stanley Approved a new supplementary disclosure as non-executive directors framework Discussed the safety performance across Considered the output and the Group recommendations from the Board Reviewed the results of the employee effectiveness review and review into the vote engagement survey and the actions arising on the Directors Remuneration Report at from it the 2015 AGM and implemented actions Reviewed and approved Directors conflicts of interest Discussed feedback from institutional shareholders, the Investor Forum, and analysts Received updates on corporate governance developments and the impact of regulatory changes on the Group Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 47 Governance Corporate Governance continued Appointments to the Board EFFECTIVENESS The Nominations Committee has responsibility for the appointment of non-executive and executive directors and The balance of experience, skills, gender and diversity of thinking recommends new appointments to the Board.
During the year, styles around the boardroom table is regularly reviewed to the Nominations Committee undertook a search exercise for ensure that the composition of the Board and its Committees is two additional non-executive directors.
The Board approved appropriate for the Group as it continues to evolve and implement the Nominations Committees recommendations and Lars its agreed strategy.
The Board and its Committees undergo a Frederiksen and Sybella Stanley joined the Board on 1 April 2016. formal effectiveness review process once a year which provides Further details about the appointment process are set out in the new insights into the operation of the Board and areas for Nominations Committee report pages 59 and 60. development or particular focus.
Directors induction programme Board composition On appointment, Lars Frederiksen and Sybella Stanley At the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprised received background reading about the Group and details of 11 directors with deep knowledge and experience in diverse Board procedures and other governance matters.
The Company business sectors within global markets: the Chairman, who has Secretary then worked with each director to tailor the general no executive responsibilities: two executive directors: and eight non-executive director induction programme, which covers non-executive directors.
The names, skills and experience of strategy, operations including safety and environ mental the directors are set out below and on page 49. performance, risk management and internal control.
An overview of their programmes to date is set out on page 49.
Re-election of directors The Code provides that all directors should seek re-election on CHART OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS an annual basis and all directors will seek re-election at the AT 25 MAY 2016 forthcoming AGM.
The directors standing for re-election, with the 3 1 Less than 3 years 3 directors exception of Javed Ahmed and Nick Hampton, do not have service 2 4 to 6 years 4 directors 1 contracts.
Each director goes through a formal performance 3 Over 7 years 1 director review process as part of the annual Board effectiveness review.
All directors completed this process during the year and, in line 2 with the Code, Sir Peter Gershon, Liz Airey, William Camp and Douglas Hurt, who have served for over six years, have been subject to a particularly rigorous review.
A BALANCED AND DIVERSE BOARD Sir Peter Gershon Nick Hampton Javed Ahmed Sir Peters significant business and Nick brings a wealth of food industry Javed has extensive experience of global board level experience gained in insights to the Board, leveraging his consumer goods markets.
The depth and multiple international industries general management, financial and breadth of his experience as a global provides the Board with valuable operational experience in senior business leader in multi-national contributions when considering management roles in a major multicompanies and tenure with a major strategy, business performance, new national food and beverage business, strategy consulting group provides the opportunities and engineering matters.
making him a versatile operational CFO.
skillset required to drive and transform He has significant experience of His experience in leading transformational an organisation, inspire its workforce and chairing FTSE 100 and 250 companies projects is particularly important as the show leadership in the Companys culture and a detailed understanding of UK Group continues its transformation.
Douglas Hurt Anne Minto Lars Frederiksen Douglas has extensive experience as a Annes extensive career in general As the former CEO of a global former FD of a global manufacturing and management and human resources is speciality food ingredients business, business-to-business engineering group particularly useful to the Board when Lars led a highly successful business and also in senior management roles in considering succession planning, talent transformation and his insights will the US and Europe which provides the management, executive remunerationand be invaluable to the Board as Board with valuable perspectives and other employee-related activities.
She has Tate&Lyle continues to evolve.
insights into financial and operational a detailed understanding of how to attract He brings operational expertise and issues.
In addition, his understanding of and retain global talent and her roles on insights to the Corporate Responsibility the London investment community and the boards of companies listed in both Committee and an understanding of pension matters supports the Board in London and New York provide her with a how to attract and retain talent in a its oversight and decision-making roles.
detailed understanding of global executive global business to the Remuneration As Chairman of the Audit Committee, remuneration practices and UK and US Committee.
Douglas also serves on the Corporate remuneration governance requirements.
Responsibility Committee which further As Chairman of the Remuneration supports the coordination of the oversight Committee, Anne also serves on the role of both committees.
Audit Committee which further supports the coordination of the oversight role of both committees.
48 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Corporate Governance Director Aim of induction programme Details of programme to date Lars Frederiksen To increase Larss knowledge Lars visited the global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre Non-executive director of the Groups processes and in Chicago, USA, and the London head office where he met with senior people and the UK-listed company operational management and key functional heads and the external environment auditors, PwC Sybella Stanley To increase Sybellas knowledge Sybella visited the global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre Non-executive director in Chicago, and the London head office where she met with senior of the Groups business, processes, people and financial operational management and key functional heads.
Sybella also held control environment meetings with the VP Group Finance and Control, VP, Global Audit and Assurance and PwC to gain a detailed understanding of the Groups financial control environment During the year, no directors had a material interest in a contract independence has been considered by both the Nominations with the Group, being a contract of significance in relation to the Committee and the Board Ms Airey having excused herself from Groups business.
A statement of directors interests in Company all discussions on the matter.
Having considered Ms Aireys performance and independent focus Independence on Board and committee issues, the Nominations Committee The Code provides that the Board should state its reasons if it and the Board unanimously consider that Ms Airey continues to determines that a director is independent notwithstanding the demonstrate strongly the attributes of an independent nonexistence of relationships or circumstances which may appear executive director, as reflected in her contribution to constructive relevant to its determination, including if the director has served challenge and debate at meetings, and there is no evidence on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first whatsoever that the length of her tenure has impacted on her election.
We are committed to progressively refreshing Board independence.
The Nominations Committee and the Board are membership to reflect changing needs as the Group evolves and of the view that Ms Aireys knowledge of the Group and the we recognise the importance of continuity and the value that continuity this provides following a year of several Board changes directors who serve for many years are able to bring.
will continue to be of considerable benefit to the Board and its committees.
As set out on page 59, Ms Airey, as Senior With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed under the Independent Director, is also leading the process to identify Code not to be independent, the Board considers all the nona successor for the Chairman.
executive directors to be independent.
The Board is accordingly recommending that Ms Airey be Liz Airey joined the Board in January 2007 and, as required by re-elected as an independent director at the 2016 AGM.
the Code, the impact of the length of her tenure on her continuing Paul Forman Liz Airey William Camp Paul has wide experience in global Lizs experience of the London investment Bill has extensive experience of the manufacturing, as well as strategy community is of immense value to the North American corn wet milling and consultancy and M&A advisory Board, especially when considering global commodities business and a deep services.
He brings insight into the market communications, strategy and understanding of the US corn market.
commercialisation of innovation long-term financial planning.
As Chairman His long career in operational and pipelines and the implementation and non-executive director of other management roles in a global of business-to-business customer London-listed companies, she also brings manufacturer of food and feed ingredients and market-led strategies in a large a detailed understanding of UK corporate provides great insights into corn wet multi-national business-to-business governance and the investment markets.
milling operations and supply chain context.
His experience as a CEO of a Her longer tenure provides invaluable logistics.
As Chairman of the Corporate global company also provides valuable continuity and a historical perspective Responsibility Committee, Bill also serves insights as a member of our Audit and through a period of change.
As Senior on the Remuneration Committee which Remuneration Committees.
Independent Director, she plays an active further supports the coordination of the role in succession planning, provides wise oversight role of both committees.
counsel to the Chairman and is available to meet with our investors.
Dr Ajai Puri Sybella Stanley Ajais food science background and career in research and Sybella has extensive commercial and financial experience and development in global food and beverage companies provides the brings a wealth of knowledge about the London investment Board with detailed technical knowledge and insights into market community and substantial experience of communicating with perceptions, nutrition and food and regulatory trends relevant to this and investment communities outside the UK.
Her long career the speciality food ingredients business.
His experience of ASPAC in corporate finance and M&A will be invaluable to the Board as is of particular benefit as we continue to focus on growth in and when it considers strategic opportunities.
His work with regulatory bodies and acumen will provide valuable insights to her role as a member knowledge of food regulation provides him with the skillset of our Audit Committee.
required to chair the Research Advisory Group and to support the Board and Tate&Lyle Group with valuable insights into how leading-edge science and technology can be successfully deployed as part of the Groups Speciality Food Ingredients portfolio.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 49 Governance Corporate Governance continued Board and committee evaluation The Directors discussed Mr Edis-Batess findings and The Code provides that the review of Board effectiveness should recommendations, which principally focused on the Companys be facilitated by an independent party at least once every three shareholder engagement practices and then set up a working years.
The diagram below sets out the Boards approach to party to develop a plan to address his recommendations.
this process: The major priority areas that are being actioned are as follows: BOARD AND COMMITTEE REVIEW CYCLE Key action Progress Enhancing the As part of this, the Board participated Boards knowledge in a dedicated information session, led Year 1 and understanding of by the Companys advisers, on the year ended 31 March 2014 the engagement operations and engagement practices  review undertaken practices of the of the Companys major investors and by independent third party Companys major the role of proxy advisers shareholders Extending the Our internal Investor Relations Groups guidelines were extended to include communication remuneration consultations Year 2 policy document on year ended 31 March 2015 shareholder  review undertaken engagement by the Senior Independent Director Increased The remit of the Remuneration involvement of the Committees external advisers has been Companys external reinforced and formally extended: with advisers greater involvement by our brokers and Year 3 Investor Relations advisers year ended 31 March 2016 Committee Lars Frederiksen, who has extensive  review undertaken composition and remuneration and investor experience, by the Chairman governance joined the Remuneration Committee, and Sybella Stanley, who has extensive investor relations experience, joined the Audit Committee on their appointment to the Board 2015 Board effectiveness review 2016 Board effectiveness review This review was led by Liz Airey, the Senior Independent Director, This year, the Chairman worked with the Company Secretary to and identified a number of individual and collective actions which develop a questionnaire which was designed to build on actions are set out below: that had already been identified to improve Board effectiveness, including those actions agreed following Mr Edis-Batess review.
Improving the robustness of our investor communications The output from this questionnaire was then summarised in a and processes report that was discussed by the Board.
The Directors concluded T he Board approved an enhanced disclosure framework that that they are satisfied that the Board and its Committees is now in place for investor communications.
continued to operate effectively and a number of action points Improving the way information is presented to the Board and were agreed, including the following: ensuring issues are fully surfaced in Board presentations Carve out more opportunities for Directors to discuss broad W ork continues to be undertaken to enhance papers submitted strategic industry issues to the Board.
All major papers are sponsored by a Director who We have changed the focus for Board dinners held when the is responsible for obtaining input into the scope of the paper Board is in London: these will generally be private sessions to ensure issues are identified and addressed in the paper.
for Directors to explore broader longer-term issues.
Applying additional disciplines to operational or strategic Diversity of thinking styles proposals that are submitted to the Board F ollowing the 2015 session on leveraging the diverse nature P roposals that are submitted to the Board are subject to a of Directors thinking styles, we will set up an additional session detailed review process, which includes input from independent to ensure continued focus on this area.
Innovation pipeline Driving forward succession planning and talent development A dditional detail will be provided to the Directors for each T he Nominations Committee undertook a review of the scheduled meeting setting out the progress of projects within succession planning and talent development processes and the innovation pipeline.
continues to keep this as a key area of focus.
Review of the committees Independent review following 2015 Annual General Meeting In addition to the Board effectiveness review, the chairman Following the July 2015 AGM where the Directors Remuneration of each of the Committees facilitated a review of his or her Report was passed with 58.77% votes cast in favour, we own committees effectiveness.
These reviews confirmed that commissioned an independent review to better understand the all committees continue to provide effective support to the reasons for this outcome.
This was led by Jon Edis-Bates who runs Board.
Areas for further focus are noted in the individual an independent corporate governance consultancy.
range of key documents, met with a number of investors, advisers and a number of Tate&Lyle directors and senior executives and produced a detailed report for the full Board.
50 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Corporate Governance Review of individual directors The key elements of those procedures are as follows: Liz Airey led the review of the Chairmans performance again this Directors are required to disclose proposed new appointments year.
As part of this process, she sought the individual views of to the Chairman before taking them on, to ensure that any each of the executive and non-executive directors, led a meeting potential conflicts of interest can be identified and addressed of the non-executive directors to discuss the feedback and then appropriately, for instance through the agreement and provided feedback to the Chairman.
implementation of guidelines and protective measures The Chairman led performance reviews of the non-executive regarding the ongoing management of any situational conflict directors and the performance of the Chief Executive and Chief Directors are required to declare other situations which could Financial Officer was considered by the Nominations Committee, result in a potential conflict of interest in line with its terms of reference.
These reviews confirmed that Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to proposed each director continues to make an effective contribution to the directors are considered by the Board prior to their Boards work and is well-prepared and informed about issues appointment they needed to consider.
In each case, their commitment The Board reviews directors actual or potential conflicts of remains strong.
Professional development and independent site visit During the year, potential conflicts were considered and assessed programme by the Board and approved, together with guidelines and Directors receive ongoing training and updates on relevant issues protective measures as appropriate.
as appropriate, taking into account their individual qualifications Directors indemnities and insurance cover and experience.
The Company Secretary helps directors As at the date of this Annual Report, indemnities are in force undertake any other professional development they consider under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, necessary to assist them in carrying out their duties.
In November to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against claims 2015, Directors participated in an education session on cyber risk, from third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising out of, or facilitated by an independent adviser.
This provided Directors with in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and insights into market and leading-edge practices.
Visits to external responsibilities as directors of the Company or any of its events are also arranged to help non-executive directors in subsidiaries.
The directors are also indemnified against the cost particular to gain a deeper insight into the Groups operating of defending a criminal prosecution or a claim by the Company, environment.
During the year, in addition to the Boards visits its subsidiaries or a regulator, provided that where the defence is to the Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, unsuccessful the director must repay those defence costs.
These and the manufacturing facility in Loudon, Tennessee, the indemnities are qualifying indemnity provisions for the purposes Chairman and the non-executive directors visited three of the of Sections 232 to 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and copies are Groups sites in Europe and the US as part of their independent available for inspection at the registered office of the Company site visit programme.
These visits provide directors with the during business hours on any weekday except UK public holidays.
opportunity to interact with local management and gain in-depth Equivalent indemnities remain in force for Virginia Kamsky who knowledge about the challenges being faced by the Groups ceased to be a director on 1 July 2015. operations across the world.
Over the past three years, the Chairman and non-executive directors have visited 20 of the The Company also maintains directors and officers liability Groups principal locations as part of this programme.
insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Advice and support All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Lucie Gilbert, who is responsible for ensuring that Board processes are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
There is also a formal procedure whereby directors can obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Directors conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association allow directors to authorise conflicts of interest and the Board has an established policy and set of procedures for managing and, where appropriate, authorising, actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 51 Governance Corporate Governance continued ACCOUNTABILITY The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks we are willing to take in achieving the Groups strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
Risk management and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A formal process is in place which aims to identify and evaluate risks and how they are managed, further details of which are set out on page 31.
The objective of our internal control system is to protect the Groups assets and reputation and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication.
The Groups system of internal control and risk management can, however, only seek to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An overview of our internal control system is set out below and key responsibilities are set out on page 53.
KEY FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Our system of internal control can be grouped into four broad areas: Monitoring controls Tone from the top and business Controls monitoring by dedicated teams environment controls covering, for instance, finance, safety, The Values framework see page 34 product quality, intellectual property The Group policies framework and cyber security Business performance management Framework of reviews by appropriately processes, covering planning, budgeting qualified people and performance Schedule of matters reserved to the Board and terms of reference System for Board Committees A clear organisational structure with of internal responsibility and accountability clearly control defined and limits of authority Information and communication controls Segregation of duties Board and Executive Committee reporting framework Communication protocols for Risk assessment external communications Risk assessments are undertaken as Whistleblowing process part of business as usual as well as through a more formalised Enterprise Risk Management process 2016 review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control The effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and Values and behaviours risk management is monitored throughout the year.
Once a year, the Board, with the assistance of the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees, conducts its own review of the Financial controls Compliance controls effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control.
In 2016, this review was once again facilitated by Group Audit and Assurance and covered the period from the start of the Operational controls Risk management process financial year to the date of this Annual Report.
The process included a two-stage review to facilitate discussion, with the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees discussing the results Responses to questionnaires reviewed by of the review at their meetings in March and May 2016.
The Board Global Directorof Ethics andinternal audit function then discussed the output at its meeting in May 2016.
Output discussed by Corporate Output discussed by Audit Responsibility Committee in Committee in Marchand May March and May Follow-up work undertaken by the Global Directorof Ethics and internal audit function, as appropriate 52 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Corporate Governance The 2016 review covered financial, operational and compliance action plans to deliver them, were identified.
Delivery of these controls, Values and behaviours, and the risk management enhancements is being monitored by the Audit Committee or Corporate Responsibility Committee as appropriate.
process, and included questionnaires and representation letters completed by management.
Group Audit and Assurance The Board considers that no areas identified for enhancement monitored and selectively checked the results of the review, constituted a significant weakness.
ensuring that the responses from management were consistent with the results of its work during the year.
As part of this process, areas for enhancements to internal controls, and associated INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Body Responsibilities The Board Determines the level of risk that it is prepared to accept in the business risk appetite Agrees the Groups Principal risks for disclosure in the Annual Report Oversees the strategies for managing significant risks Audit and Corporate Review aspects of the risk management and internal control systems and report to the Board Responsibility Committees Discuss regular reports from the VP, Group Audit and Assurance internal audit Undertake a formal review of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and report to the Board on the output of that review at least once a year Executive management Works within the risk appetite and develops the mechanisms and processes to direct the organisation, through setting the tone and expectations from the top, delegating authority and monitoring compliance Line management Manages risk and ensures that mitigation is operated across the business which is appropriate and in accordance with the accountability framework Has primary responsibility for compliance with Group policies, Values and compliance requirements Within certain functions, notably safety and product quality, separate assurance teams oversee the effective operation of controls Employees Manage risks within their predefined accountabilities Undertake tailored, mandatory training covering, for example, safety, cyber security, competition law and anti-bribery and corruption to increase their awareness of risks Risk management function Works with executive and line management to help identify, measure, mitigate, monitor and report significant risks Risk management Review certain risks and controls and monitor initiatives to strengthen controls committees Comprise senior management and functional specialists Examples include the Cyber Security Steering Committee which considers cyber security risks and the Treasury Risk Committee which focuses on financial risks Global Audit and Assurance Provides objective assessment of the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal control internal audit systems to the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees, and to the Board Has the authority to review any relevant aspect of the business and a duty to report on any material weaknesses Develops and works to a risk-based internal audit plan which is approved by the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees and which is regularly updated External specialists Commissioned by the Board from time to time to supplement internal processes as appropriate Financial reporting internal controls system In addition, specific disclosure controls and procedures are in This system covers the financial reporting process and the place to support the approval of the Groups financial statements.
Groups process for preparing consolidated accounts, and Twice a year, representatives from the business units certify that includes policies and procedures which provide for: they have complied with the minimum control standards and that their reported information provides a true and fair view of the T he maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, state of the financial affairs of their division and its results for accurately and fairly reflect transactions including the the period.
The results of this financial disclosure process are acquisition and disposal of assets reported to the Audit Committee.
Reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards R easonable assurance regarding the prevention or timely detection of unauthorised use of the Groups assets.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 53 Governance Corporate Governance continued Analysts ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHERS In addition to presentations to investors and analysts on the day of the Groups full-year and half-year results announcements, We are committed to maintaining an open dialogue with conference calls were hosted after each trading update and other shareholders, debt investors and potential investors and major announcements to provide investors and analysts with the recognise the importance of that relationship in the opportunity to ask questions.
Any presentations, together with governance process.
the associated announcements, are available on our website and We have a focused investor relations programme that aims we also make any audio recordings which are available for a short to help existing and potential investors understand the Group.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Feedback from the investment community is provided to all Officer and Group VP, Investor and Media Relations also continued Directors on a regular basis to ensure they understand the to meet regularly with analysts.
Independent feedback on our investor relations programme Institutional investors Each year, an external investor relations adviser, Makinson The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Group VP Cowell, undertakes a comprehensive review of investor Investor and Media Relations maintain a regular programme perceptions of the Group, management, strategy and of meetings with institutional shareholders in the UK, Europe communications.
The output from this review was presented and North America.
to the Board in November 2015 and actions taken forward by management.
Recommendations included introducing divisional The Chairman held meetings with institutional shareholders management to the investor community and providing more during the year and the Senior Independent Director, Liz Airey, also information on the commercialisation of new products and the met with a number of institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, new product pipeline.
Liz Airey and Nick Hampton also met with the Investor Forum.
Anne Minto, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, met with Capital markets event governance representatives at a number of the Companys In January 2016, we held a half-day event in London for principal investors to discuss remuneration issues and explain institutional investors and analysts.
The aim of this event was the proposed changes to the performance conditions attached to provide greater exposure to our Speciality Food Ingredients to the Performance Share Plan see page 74 for more information.
growth model and our innovation capabilities, and access to the All Directors were briefed on the content of these meetings.
Joan Braca President, Speciality Food Ingredients, Gabriella Parisse President, Innovation and Commercial Development and members of their teams INVESTOR CALENDAR presented at the event.
Set out below is a summary of our major investor activity Other capital providers during the year We value the contribution of our committed lending banks and bond holders and the Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer April 2015 Trading update issued also met with this investor base and the ratings agencies Major business realignment announced Standard & Poors and Moodys on a regular basis.
May 2015 Full-year results issued Private retail shareholders Investor meetings in the UK Private shareholders are encouraged to provide feedback via the Company Secretary and we also include a questions card with June 2015 Annual Report published the AGM documentation that is sent to shareholders so that those Investor roadshow meetings in the UK, Europe shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting have the and US opportunity to raise questions.
Investor conference in Paris Annual General Meeting July 2015 Chairmans meeting with investors The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to Meetings with potential debt investors regarding question the Board on matters put to the meeting, including US private placement this Annual Report.
Shareholders who attended last years AGM Trading update issued Annual General Meeting in London received a presentation from the Chief Executive on the Groups activities and performance and also had the opportunity to sample October Trading update issued some of our ingredients after the meeting.
2015 The 2016 AGM will be held at The QEII Centre in London on November Half-year results issued Thursday 21 July 2016 at 11.00 am.
Full details are set out in the 2015 Investor roadshow meetings in the UK, US, France Notice of Meeting.
Resolutions are decided by means of a poll and Canada and the votes received in respect of each Resolution, together with the level of abstentions, are notified to the London Stock January Capital Markets event in London Exchange and published on our website.
Shareholders can 2016 choose to receive shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, electronically or in paper format, and may submit February Trading update issued proxy votes and any questions either electronically or by post.
2016 Remuneration Committee Chairman consultation programme March Investor meetings in Italy and Germany 2016 Remuneration Committee Chairman consultation programme 54 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016
