Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Douglas Hurt, Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear shareholder As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our report which sets out how we fulfilled our responsibilities during the year.
In addition to our usual matters, which are described later I held separate one-to-one meetings with the Chief Financial in this report, we focused on a number of key topics which Officer, the Group VP Finance and Control, the VP Group Audit I group under two broad headings: enhancing the nature of and Assurance and PwC.
These meetings enabled me to probe our financial disclosures and implementing the new provisions any issues and areas of concern and ensure that my fellow of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in Committee members have an appropriate level of information September 2014. and we have enough time to devote to the issues in our formal meetings.
We continued with our practice of looking in depth at certain aspects of the control environment and this year we focused Looking ahead, we will continue to focus on the impact of the evolving nature of the Group on our accounting policies and on the North American commodities function and the basis for cost allocation across the Group.
Finance and operational practices, and associated disclosure.
In addition we will maintain our programme of in depth reviews of the control environment.
leaders attended the meeting for these detailed reviews.
In November 2015, we visited the global Shared Service GSS Last, but by no means least, we welcomed Sybella Stanley as an Centre in d z where we were able to meet with members additional Committee member from 1 April 2016 and we have of the local leadership team and follow up on progress made put in place an induction programme for her.
We also reviewed the tactical and I look forward to meeting with shareholders at our forthcoming strategic plans being executed to deliver the next phase of the AGM on 21 July 2016.
GSS Centres growth and development.
While our colleague, Paul Forman, was unable to accompany the Committee Douglas Hurt for this visit, he subsequently visited the site to meet the Chairman of the Audit Committee leadership team and follow up on some of the items we had focused on during the group visit.
We discussed the auditor regulatory provisions as issued by the Financial Reporting Council, Competition and Markets Authority and the EU.
These require us to rotate our auditors no later than the end of the 2020 financial year.
We have discussed the timing of a tender process at length again this year and, in the absence of any major service or quality issues, we intend to undertake a tender to coincide with the rotation of the incumbent audit engagement partner, who is due to rotate from this engagement following the conclusion of the audit for the year ended 31 March 2018.
We continue to keep the performance of our external auditors, PwC, under close scrutiny.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 55 Governance Corporate Governance continued The Committee has also met once since the end of the financial This Audit Committee report is structured as follows: year and prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
Committee governance The Chief Financial Officer: VP Group Audit and Assurance: 2.
W ork undertaken during the year, including in respect Group VP Finance and Control: Executive VP General Counsel: of financial reporting: oversight of the external auditors: and representatives of the external auditors are normally invited oversight of the internal audit function: and internal and attend each meeting.
The Chairman of the Board and control and risk management.
Chief Executive are also invited to attend Committee meetings.
In addition, senior finance and operational leaders attend and present to the Committee on an ad hoc basis, depending on the issues being discussed.
Committee governance Responsibilities Effectiveness The Committee assists the Board by overseeing financial The Committee Chairman and Company Secretary led a review reporting, internal controls, the risk management process, of the Committees effectiveness and the output was discussed by the internal audit function Group Audit and Assurance and the Committee.
This concluded that the Committee continued to the relationship with the external auditors.
Further details on operate effectively and identified a number of areas for increased its responsibilities are in the Committees terms of reference, focus as part of the in-depth review programme during the 2017 on the Companys website, www.
financial year, including financial risk management and further Composition aspects of our commodities operations.
During the financial year under review, the Committee comprised 2.
Work undertaken during the year four independent directors.
All the Committee members have The Committee maintains a calendar of items for consideration at extensive management experience in large international each meeting.
This is regularly reviewed and updated.
In addition organisations and bring a wide range of financial and commercial to the activities outlined in the statement from the Committee experience from various industries.
The Code stipulates that at Chairman, during the year and up to the date of this Annual least one Committee member should have recent and relevant Report, the work undertaken by the Committee fell under four financial experience.
Two members meet this requirement: main areas: financial reporting: oversight of the external auditors: Douglas Hurt was Finance Director at IMI plc and is a member of oversight of the internal audit function: and internal control and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, and risk management.
Liz Airey was an investment banker and former finance director of Financial reporting Monument Oil and Gas plc.
The Company Secretary, Lucie Gilbert, is the secretary to the Committee.
At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting papers prepared by management and determined, with the Meetings during the year perspective of the external auditors, the appropriateness of key Meetings are generally scheduled in line with key times in the accounting policies, estimates and judgements.
The significant Groups financial reporting calendar.
The Committee held six issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial scheduled meetings during the year and also met on one statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 are listed on page 57. additional occasion early in the financial year to review the The Committee also considered managements review of reported impact of the decision to close the SPLENDA Sucralose facility and adjusted earnings, and satisfied itself that significant one-off in Singapore.
Attendance during the year was as follows: items of income and expense had been correctly classified and Number of that external disclosure of these items was appropriate.
Directors as at Date of appointment meetings Number of In addition, the Committee reviewed managements annual 31 March 2016 to the Committee attended meetings goodwill impairment assessment paper, considering future Douglas Hurt Chr 9 March 2010 7 7 performance of the underlying businesses, including discussion Liz Airey 1 January 2007 7 7 of the discount rates used and forecast assumptions and Paul Forman 1 January 2015 7 7 sensitivities.
The Committee was satisfied that no impairment Anne Minto 1 December 2012 7 7 charges were required.
Papers on the Groups existing and emerging litigation risks were also considered.
Sybella Stanley joined the Committee on 1 April 2016.
56 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Corporate Governance SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND GOVERNANCE ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE Issue Background Committees activities and conclusions Accounting for The transaction to re-align the Eaststarch joint The Committee discussed the basis for the Groups accounting the re-alignment venture had complex accounting and reporting and reporting of the re-alignment and agreed that the disclosures implications, including the allocation of the were appropriate.
of the Eaststarch consideration between the disposed interests joint venture and the acquired interest, the valuation of acquired intangibles and the calculation of the gain on disposal.
In 2015 and prior, the Group reported its adjusted To assist stakeholders ahead of the publication of the half-year Reporting joint and segmental performance using proportional results, the Committee reviewed and recommended the ventures in consolidation for its joint ventures.
The publication in October 2015 of comparative adjusted financial adjusted completion of re-alignment of the Eaststarch information on a continuing and discontinued basis, and equity measures joint venture was considered to be a trigger to accounting for joint ventures and associates for the six months adopt equity accounting for joint ventures in ended 30 September 2014 and the year ended 31 March 2015. reporting adjusted and segmental performance.
Accounting for Early in the financial year, the Board agreed to The Committee considered the carrying value of the Groups re-focus the SPLENDA Sucralose business by SPLENDA Sucralose assets and determined that the carrying sucralose assets taking a rigorous value-based approach value of the Singapore facility totalling 113 million should be to securing volume, and by materially lowering written off as at 31 March 2015.
The Committee further determined the manufacturing cost base of the business that, based on the analysis of the business and future cost base, by consolidating all production into the no impairment was required in respect of the McIntosh assets.
McIntosh, Alabama facility and closing the Finally, the Committee reviewed the 33 million of non-recurring facility in Singapore, which ceased production costs arising from the closure of the Singapore plant and on 31 March 2016. determined the treatment to be appropriate.
The Group uses commodity contracts to manage The Committee received regular updates on the key commodity Commodity risk and hedge its corn and co-product positions in risks and the risk management framework in place to mitigate the US.
The valuation of the corn book and the these risks.
This included a detailed review of the valuation co-products produced as part of the corn wet methodology for meal contracts for which no external published milling process, which are both underpinned by values are available.
In addition, the Committee considered the a number of judgements, have a material impact work performed by the external auditors before concluding that on the reported results of the Group.
the judgements made in determining the valuation were appropriate.
This will continue to be a key area of focus for the Committee going forward.
Viability The Code provides that the directors should The Committee discussed preliminary work to determine an explain in the Annual Report how they have appropriate assessment period and the scenarios to stress-test statement assessed the prospects of the Group, including the business model ahead of consideration of a full assessment the appropriateness of the period used in this by the Board.
The Directors subsequently concluded that they have assessment.
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their detailed assessment.
See page 31 for further details.
Disclosure of The Group has undertaken an exercise to refresh The Committee considered the output of managements review of its external disclosures, including the content the structure and content of the Financial Statements section of the financial and presentation of financial statements in the Annual Report and agreed, inter alia, the following enhancements: information in Annual Report 2016. the Annual Increasing the prominence of areas of key judgement in the Report accounting policies section Simplifying the presentation and reducing technical jargon Removing disclosures considered to be superfluous or immaterial.
Taxation The Group operates and pays taxes in a number The Committee reviewed the Groups principles and processes of jurisdictions, which requires the interpretation for managing tax risks during the year and reviewed the key of complex tax laws in these jurisdictions.
As judgements made in estimating the Groups tax charge along with such, provision for potential direct tax exposures the key disclosures, including a statement of tax principles, set out with local tax authorities is made and reassessed on page 27 and in Note 12.
The Committee was satisfied that the as necessary at the half-year and year-end, judgements made in estimating the Groups tax charge were underpinned by a range of judgements from reasonable, and that the disclosures were appropriate.
tax professionals and external advisors.
The key factors likely to impact the future tax charge as well as the key risks and uncertainties were considered and the Committee agreed the disclosure of these factors in this Annual Report.
Retirement The Group has significant retirement benefit The Committee discussed the assumptions proposed by obligations in the UK and the US, including management reflecting advice from the Groups external actuary obligations unfunded retirement medical plans in the US, which have driven a reduction in the pension and healthcare net and a number of judgements have to be made liability see Note 30 and considered reports from the external when calculating the fair value of the Groups auditors before agreeing that the assumptions were reasonable.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 57 Governance Corporate Governance continued the external audit process was operating effectively and that PwC External auditors PwC or its predecessor firms have been the Companys auditors continued to provide effective and independent challenge to management.
The review identified a number of areas for process since 1989.
The lead audit partner is rotated on a five-yearly basis.
The current lead audit partner, John Waters, has been in place enhancements which were implemented and incorporated into the since the audit for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Accordingly, he criteria set for the audit in respect of the year ended 31 March is due to rotate off at the conclusion of the audit for the year ending 2016.
The Committee discussed progress against these criteria 31 March 2018. on a regular basis.
In accordance with the Competition and Markets Authority Order Tenure of the external auditors and the Committees terms of reference, the Committee Chairman, The Competition and Markets Authoritys order issued in October on behalf of the Committee, negotiated and agreed the fee and 2014 requires FTSE 350 companies to tender their statutory audit scope of the statutory audit for the year ended 31 March 2016. engagement at least every ten years.
In addition to this, the EU regulations require that audit firms of all EU companies listed Safeguarding the auditors independence on a regulated market rotate off after 20 years.
The Committee operates a policy to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
This policy sets out Under the transitional provisions attached to the EU rules, the certain disclosure requirements by the external auditors to the Group would be required to change auditors for the next audit Committee: restrictions on the employment of the external appointment after 17 June 2020.
As set out in the introduction auditors former employees: and partner rotation.
from the Committee Chairman, the Committee discussed the timing of a tender on a regular basis during the financial year During the year, the Committee reviewed the processes that the ended 31 March 2016.
The current intention is that, in the external auditors have in place to safeguard their independence, absence of any major service or quality issues, a tender would and received a letter from the external auditors confirming that, be undertaken to coincide with the rotation of John Waters, in their opinion, they remained independent.
the incumbent Audit engagement partner.
This means that Provision of non-audit services new auditors would be in place for the financial year ending The policy also sets out the circumstances in which the external 31 March 2019. auditors may be permitted to undertake non-audit services.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC continues The Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Committee have to act as auditors to the Group.
PwC has indicated its willingness authority to approve the provision of certain services up to to continue in office: resolutions on the reappointment of PwC 100,000 or 250,000 respectively.
The Committee must approve and authorising the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board to any proposed non-audit services that exceed those thresholds.
determine PwCs remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Such proposals must be justified and, if appropriate, be subject to tender.
In addition, the policy specifies the services which are Internal audit Group Audit and Assurance not permitted under any circumstances, such as the provision Group Audit and Assurance is an internal review function that of remuneration advice and internal audit outsourcing.
During services the Board and all levels of management.
It provides the year, a competitive tender process was led by the procurement objective assurance to add value and improve the organisations function to identify a supplier to perform a business case and operations.
Its responsibilities include assessing the key risks of feasibility assessment for the implementation of a transportation the organisation and examining, evaluating and reporting on the management system in the US.
As a result of this process, PwC adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of risk management was identified as the most appropriate supplier for this work.
and internal control as operated by management.
Management The Committee considered this proposal at length and accepted remains responsible for identifying risks and for the design and managements recommendation.
The fee for this work accounts operation of controls to manage risk.
The audit function was for substantially all of the fees charged for non-audit services externally assessed by Independent Audit, a third party, between during the year.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the remit, organisation, annual plan, resources and The Committee reviews the policy on an annual basis and effectiveness of Group Audit and Assurance and concluded that considers quarterly reports which set out the ongoing non-audit the function continued to operate effectively.
services provided by the auditors and the fees incurred.
Internal control and risk management A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect The Committee continued to receive and consider regular reports of auditand non-audit related work is included in Note 9. from management and the VP Group Audit and Assurance on The total amount paid in respect of the Group audit, audit of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system.
subsidiaries and the half-year review was 2.0million, and The reports from the latter included the findings from reviews of 0.2million was paid in respect of non-audit-related services.
internal financial controls and actions to address any weaknesses Fees paid in respect of non-audit-related services therefore in those controls.
The Committee also reviewed the operation comprised 9% of the total fees paid to PwC.
of the independent confidential reporting line.
Throughout the Effectiveness of the external auditors year, the Committee focused in particular on the strengthening Following the conclusion of the audit for the year ended 31 March of the financial control environment and the impact of this on 2015, the Committee conducted an internal review of the the financial reporting processes.
It also reviewed controls to effectiveness of the external auditors.
As part of the process, mitigate fraud risk and the Group assurance map, outlining the the Committee reviewed the auditors performance against key risks and associated assurance processes.
In addition, the criteria set at the start of the audit, together with feedback from Committee reviewed the output from the annual review of the effectiveness of internal financial reporting controls and then management at Group level and at divisional level.
It also considered the most recent public report on the inspection of PwC, reported to the Board on that review.
Further details about this review are on page 52. which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in May 2015, together with the output from the review undertaken by the FRCs Audit Quality Review team.
The Committee concluded that 58 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016
