BOARD EVALUATION The outcome of the 2015 Board evaluation which was internally Feedback was then provided on an individual basis, by the Senior facilitated, in line with the requirement of the Code that the exercise be Independent Director to the Chairman and vice versa : and through externally facilitated every three years was reported on in detail in last the Chairman discussing each individual Directors own performance years Corporate Governance Report.
The main action points arising assessment with the relevant Director on a one-to-one basis.
from that exercise, and action taken in respect of each, are set out in The recommendations arising from the Board evaluations for 2015 and the table below.
2016, together with actions taken during 2016 in relation to the former, As previously mentioned, the 2016 Board evaluation was also internally and actions planned during 2017 in relation to the latter, are set out in facilitated, as set out on page 57. the table below.
The 2016 evaluation process consisted of the following: A detailed and comprehensive bespoke questionnaire which the Secretary sent individually to all Directors for completion and return to him.
Collation of the responses by the Secretary.
Review by the Chairman and the Secretary of each performance area, and of each Director.
Review by the Senior Independent Director and the Secretary of the performance of the Chairman.
Presentation of the findings to the Board on a non-attributable basis.
Preparation of action plans designed to address the findings, as set out in the table below, during 2017.
2015 Evaluation Recommendations included Actions taken during the year Additional periodic reporting to take place on key areas such as Additional reporting to the Board on these areas of the business land and planning: marketing-related initiatives: and the Major took place at Board meetings during 2016 and will continue in 2017 Developments business.
Greater alignment of reporting on the three Divisions by each Alignment of reporting was implemented during 2016.
Additional focus to take place on diversity and inclusivity including This remained a key topic for the Board and the Nomination continued monitoring and review.
Committee during 2016 and remains so during 2017.
The Boards Diversity Policy and details of progress achieved and plans for further progress during 2017, are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 71 to 73.
The inclusion of special topics for presentation to the Board and A programme of special topics and presenters was compiled, closely to make some organisational changes to the Board away day.
related to key strategy aims and business areas, and these have been addressed at Board meetings during 2016.
The Board away day structure was improved and has maximised the time the Board spends together.
2016 Evaluation Recommendations included Actions being or to be taken during 2017 Additional reporting to take place on key areas such as financial Additional reporting to the Board on these areas of the business analysis, competitor comparisons, IT, and macro economic and either has or, in some cases, will take place during 2017. market issues.
There needs to be continued focus on cyber risk and further This remains a key topic for the Board and for the Audit Committee improving the Companys defences against the risk.
Additional focus to take place on diversity and inclusivity including There is increased focus on diversity and inclusivity initiatives at continued monitoring and review.
all levels of the business including at Board level, particularly with regards to embedding the improvements achieved throughout the business.
Each of these key areas remains rmly on the Boards agenda during 2017 and an update will be provided in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
co. uk Directors report: Governance GENERAL BOARD GOVERNANCE CONTINUED COMMUNICATING WITH OUR SHAREHOLDERS We actively encourage engagement with our shareholders and stakeholders.
Shareholder engagement At the 2016 AGM, shareholders representing 60% of the Companys issued share capital voted in the poll.
There was a vote in favour of 13 The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major of the 23 resolutions of in excess of 99% and an average vote in favour institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board fully across all 23 resolutions of over 97%.
supports the principles of the UK Governance Code and also welcomes and acknowledges the Stewardship Code, both of which What our shareholders have asked us this year aim to foster a more proactive governance role by major shareholders.
During 2016 the Company held over 150 meetings with shareholders The Board has put in place arrangements designed to facilitate contact holding in aggregate around 34% of the Companys shares, taking the with shareholders concerning business, governance, remuneration form of group meetings: one to one meetings: telephone calls: and site and other issues.
This provides the opportunity for meetings with visits: including around the AGM: the announcement of the Companys shareholders and the Chairman, the Independent Non Executive full year and half year results: and an Analyst and Investor Day.
Key Directors including the Senior Independent Director as well as the themes discussed included: Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and other executives as appropriate, in order to the Companys new medium term targets: establish a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Company also the Companys enhanced dividend policy: operates a structured programme of investor relations, based on formal the land and planning environment: announcements and publications covering the full year and half year results.
In addition, the Chairman meets with the Companys the political implications and likely impact of the United Kingdom institutional shareholders from time to time, both proactively and upon European Union Referendum: request, in order to discuss the Company and its performance, current market conditions, particularly focused on the London governance and remuneration policies.
As set out in the Remuneration market and likely impact post-Referendum: and Report, the Remuneration Committee undertakes a consultation build costs and the likely impact of foreign exchange movements exercise each year and as part of this exercise, the Committee on materials prices.
Chairman also engages directly with shareholders and their representative bodies.
More online Information about the Company, including The Company is, of course, also always very pleased to hear from full year and half year results and other major and engage with our private shareholders.
announcements, and additional information All Directors receive formal reports and briengs during the year about about shareholder facilities, is published on the Companys investor relations programme and receive detailed the Companys website feedback through surveys, direct contact and also other means.
co. uk corporate enables all Directors to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
The Board encourages all shareholders to participate in the AGM, which is attended by all Directors.
Shareholders attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting on pages 154 to 163 which sets out details of the rights of shareholders in connection with the notice of, and participation in, general meetings of the Company.
This year, there are 23 resolutions being submitted for shareholder consideration, including Resolution 20 proposing the renewal of the three year approval of the Remuneration Policy and Resolution 21 proposing the approval of revised LTIP rules for the Performance Share Plan.
68 Taylor Wimpey plc NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity as Chairman of the Nomination Committee to summarise the important ongoing objectives and responsibilities of the Committee: the work that has been carried outduring 2016: and its plans for the coming year.
The Nomination Committee performs an extremely important role andthiscan be demonstrated by the fact that in addition to myself, alloftheNon Executive Directors are also members.
The primary objectives of the Committee are to support the Board infullling its responsibilities to ensure that there are i formal, rigorous MAIN OBJECTIVE andtransparent processes in place for the appointment of new Directors To ensure there shall be a formal, rigorous and transparent both to the Board and to senior management positions, and ii effective, process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, its deliverable and well thought through succession planning and contingency Committees and to other senior roles and in conjunction with planning processes in place across theGroup for all key positions.
the Board to ensure effective diversity improvements and The Committee notes the guidance issued during 2016 by the FRC and succession planning processes across theGroup.
other key organisations for Nomination Committees generally to look deeper into the Company to identify future leaders for the business: adopt 2016 PERFORMANCE a wider outlook in identifying potential Directors: and look further ahead than any immediate requirement to replace an individual Director.
The Further progressed the diversity and inclusivity agenda across Committee has addressed this through the further development of the the business, including partnering initiatives with selected Companys Talent Management Boards to identify future talent and ensure third parties.
that associated training and development plans are in place, to identify Reviewed contingency and longer term succession planning those executives with short and longer-term potential to be Directors, for allsenior roles across the business, linked to talent and to encourage and assist their further development with this aim.
The Committee has also focused increasingly on the skills of individual development and targeted training programmes, to ensure Directors, and of the Board as a unit, in assessing whether each has the they remain robust and in line with current Group requirements.
necessary skill sets and whether there any particular skills gaps, particularly Reviewed Board composition, balance, diversity and skill sets, in relation to the Companys medium term and longer-term strategic as part of the process of appointing a new Non Executive direction and the Boards ability to drive it effectively.
More details are set Director to the Board.
Reviewed the new requirements for reporting any gender pay The Committee made good progress during 2016 and its achievements gap and established a process for disclosing the Group made during 2016 and its plans for 2017 are set out in the left hand position as is reported on page 71. column of this page.
The key priorities of the Committee remain the following: 2017 OBJECTIVES To regularly review the Boards composition, balance, diversity, skill sets, To further progress the diversity and inclusivity agenda across and individual Directors time commitment: the business, including further developing partnering initiatives To regularly review our succession and contingency planning across with selected third parties and ensuring the progress made is thebusiness, and ensure that there is a clear link to individuals career embedded within our business.
development and professional development: and Review comments made in the Board Appraisal for 2016 To drive the Companys diversity and inclusivity agenda across all levels regarding certain skill gaps and consider as part of longer term of our business.
In meeting its objectives, both the Committee and the Board take into account diversity including gender.
We fully support the various To continuously review and enhance our succession and Government initiatives in this key area, including the latest proposals from contingency plans.
Lord Davies of Abersoch that the proportion of women on the boards of FTSE 350 companies should increase from 25% to 33% by the end of Nomination Committee 2020.
We also note and support the Beyond One by 21 report and The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and is recommendations launched in 2016 from Sir John Parker, which seeks composed of a majority of Independent Non Executive Directors as toincrease ethnic diversity on UK Boards.
Its members are set out in the table below.
I can confirm that diversity and inclusivity remains very much on the TaylorWimpey agenda with regular reporting now taking place including aspecic annual update and discussion.
Whilst we continue Committee members Number of meetings attended to make progress, we do of course recognise that there is still further work Kevin Beeston Chairman 2 2 to be done in order to achieve our wider diversity and inclusivity strategy.
Kate Barker 2 2 The Committees objectives, the strategy for delivering them, progress made towards them during 2016 and targets and plans for 2017 are Mike Hussey 2 2 described in more detail in this Report.
a Angela Knight 0 0 The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that the present and Rob Rowley 2 2 future composition of the Board and the Groups executive management isappropriate for the delivery of the Groups strategy and that all Humphrey Singer 2 2 relevantUK Corporate Governance Code the Code requirements b Margaret Ford Former Director 2 2 continue to be met.
a Appointed on 1 November 2016. b Resigned on 1 November 2016.
KEVIN BEESTON Chairman of the Nomination Committee 69 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Directors report: Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED access to the Board, including the opportunity to attend Board meetings and other Board-related functions in order to give presentations on Committee purpose and responsibilities specialist topics, project work and the performance of specic Business The Committee has procedures in place with regard to maintaining a Units and Divisions.
This helps to provide valuable exposure to the Board formal, rigorous and transparent process for Board appointments, for up and coming management as well as being extremely valuable for ensuring that appointments to the Board are made on merit and assessed Board members in assessing the Companys strength in depth.
The Committee guides the Board in regularly The Committee meets formally at least twice a year.
During 2016, in assessing whether there is an appropriate balance of expertise and skills addition to overseeing the recruitment of Angela Knight as an Independent on the Board and other diversity considerations.
The Committee notes and Non Executive Director, in succession to Margaret Ford who left the Board welcomes both the 2011 report from Lord Davies of Abersoch on Women during the year, the Committees principal agenda items consisted of: on Boards the Davies Report and the 2015 Report which raised the longer term succession planning, reviewing and approving the contingency target from 25% to 33% by the end of 2020. plan for key members of staff and considering progress on diversity across A description of how appointments are typically made to the Board is set the business.
Wider succession planning and diversity also remained on out below and this was followed in connection with the recent appointment the Board agenda regularly throughout the year.
of Angela Knight to the Board as an Independent Non Executive Director In addition, and in line with the Code, the Chairman and the Senior on 1 November 2016.
Independent Director, independent of each other, hold meetings at The Committee oversees on behalf of the Board, and advises the Board least annually with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive on, the identication, assessment and selection of candidates for Directors present.
The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria.
The process of the Information and professional development appointment of Angela Knight, prior to the decision of the Board, included: The Company has procedures whereby newly-appointed Directors including Non Executive Directors receive a formal induction.
This includes training and continuing familiarisation with the Companys business, strategy, operations including health and safety and systems, The engagement of independent the principles underlying the discharge of their duties as Directors and recruitment consultants The Zygos ENGAGE wider issues relating to the housing sector.
The induction also includes Partnership whohave no other meetings with key executives and function heads from across the connection to theCompany.
business, advisers and site visits.
All Directors visit Group operations on a regular basis, engaging with The preparation of a long list of potential employees at all levels in order to foster and maintain an understanding candidates which took into account the ofthe business.
Board visits are arranged each year to operations and at outcome of the Committees latest review CONSIDER least one Board meeting per annum takes place either in, or at a nearby of the composition and skill sets of location with representatives from, a regional business over three days.
2016, the Board visit encompassed a financial presentation: strategic and performance updates from designated businesses: and a review of developments in social media.
The selection of a short list of The Group Legal Director and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to suitablecandidates meeting the SELECT the Board and its Committees and he attends all meetings.
policy that wherever possible a formal agenda and reports are issued electronically to Directors in respect of all Board and Committee meetings at least one week prior to the meeting, in order to allow sufficient time Interviews by the Chairman, Chief for detailed review and consideration beforehand.
Formal minutes are Executive, Group Finance Director prepared in respect of all Board and Committee meetings and are then INTERVIEW and Group Legal Director and circulated and submitted for approval at the next meeting.
papers are circulated electronically and Board meetings have been effectively paperless for several years, which has worked well and aided Following selection of the proposed the overall efficiency of the wider Board process.
candidate, interviews with the remaining SELECT The Secretary provides regular briengs to the Board on regulatory and members of the Board and the taking CANDIDATE governance matters which are included as part of his formal regular up of detailed references.
reporting to the Board, and are supplemented, as appropriate, by briengs from independent advisers.
The Board also receives regular briengs and updates on environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
The ESG briengs allow the Board to assess the significant ESG risks The Nomination Committee also guides the Board in assessing from tothe Companys short and long term value and to identify any time to time whether the Board has the correct balance of expertise and opportunitiesthat may arise to enhance value.
Details of ESG risks and in arranging orderly succession planning for appointments to the Board value-enhancement pursuits appear in the Sustainability Report which and in respect of senior management positions across the business.
willshortly be available on our website at www.
co. uk This considers not only the immediate succession planning for Directors corporate sustainability but also longer term potential to develop into future successors in the medium to long term.
The Committee also reviews Board composition The Chairman, Chief Executive and Secretary meet sufciently in advance in light of the Companys strategy, to ensure as far as possible that new of each Board meeting in order to ensure action points from previous appointments help support the drive to achieve its strategic objectives meetings have been implemented and to prepare the agenda and matters and required skill sets.
to be covered at the next and at future Board and Committee meetings as appropriate.
The agenda and minutes for the Nomination, Audit and As highlighted in the Committees 2016 performance on page 69, a Remuneration Committee meetings are agreed by the Secretary with the key focus of the Committees work during the year was on progressive relevant Committee Chairman.
succession planning at all senior levels of the Company with a view to identifying key prospects and tailoring training and development plans to allow them to demonstrate their potential for future progression.
As part of this process, management below Board level is provided with regular 70 Taylor Wimpey plc Composition of the board experience, including from her service as a Member of Parliament and her current role as Chairman of the Ofce of Tax Simplication in HM Treasury, It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that proposed will be of considerable benefit.
appointments to the Board, and succession planning, are based on The composition and performance of the Board and its Committees were merit, and judged against objective criteria, whilst also having due regard to the benets of diversity and inclusiveness, including gender, age, considered during the year and it was concluded that the Board and each Committee continues to function effectively.
Following the resignation of Margaret Ford and the appointment of Angela Knight as an Independent Non The Committee believes that the balance of the Board, consisting Executive Director during the year, the Board consists of nine Directors, ofaChairman, three Executive Directors and five Independent Non two of whom are women, representing 22% of the Board.
The Board fully Executive Directors, recently augmented by Angela Knights wide-ranging supported the 25% target established by the Davies Report and also fully additional skill sets, will continue to provide the right blend of experience, supports the increased target going forward of 33% by 2020.
The Board expertise and challenge in order to take the Company forward in line with aspires to increase the current level of representation to at least 25% its strategy whilst ensuring and maintaining good governance and best and will also work towards achieving the higher target of 33% by 2020, practice.
This will however be kept under regular review in line with the whilst continuing to also have due regard to other aspects of diversity as guidance set out in the Code.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company to be held on The Committee also reviews the time commitments of each Director both 27 April 2017, all Directors will again be subject to re-election or, in the case prior to all appointments and periodically so as to ensure that all Directors of Angela Knight, to election, by shareholders in accordance with the Code.
can discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Biographical details of each Director can be found on page 55.
Succession and contingency planning Employee diversity During the year, we have increased our emphasis on succession Diversity and inclusion remained an area of clear focus throughout 2016 planning for people at all levels of the organisation.
As part of this, both which will continue into 2017 and beyond.
A Working Party which includes the Board and the Nomination Committee have visibility of a wide range a variety of members from across the business has been overseeing of employees with leadership potential together with their individual progress towards achieving the Companys diversity and inclusion strategy development plans.
Each Divisional Chairman of the housing business and implementing new initiatives so as to improve our performance in chairs a divisional Talent Management Board TMB comprising senior these key areas and comply with the Companys Diversity Policy as set out executives of the Division together with HR representatives.
The strategy focuses on the challenges faced in developing an inclusive and diverse workforce.
This includes working with specialist Each TMB then makes recommendations to the Group Talent Board which is chaired by the Chief Executive.
These Boards regularly review external bodies to maximise all opportunities, including: succession planning and related development and training requirements Developing our policy and both raising and meeting the expectations across the UK Group.
Further actions to support succession planning from our employees: include the development of career paths linked to experience, exposure Enhancing our awareness through a range of training programmes: and and education: an assessment and development centre: and the Improving how we attract and recruit candidates to enable us to promotion of the Companys mentoring scheme.
We are also focusing create a workforce that is inclusive: has diverse skills: and is creative upon recruiting individuals from a wider range of backgrounds, experience and innovative.
and industries at all levels.
The Board believes that by embracing diversity and inclusiveness, Following the restructuring during 2015 of our UK Housing operations theCompany will better understand how peoples differences and into three Divisions, there is now improved operational control, better similarities can be utilised for the benefit of not only the Company but most targeting of capital allocation, and a wider talent pool with great potential importantly also for individuals and society as a whole.
It is the Boards for further development.
view that having a diverse workforce will improve the Companys ability Succession planning remains a key area of focus across all levels of the to deliver its strategy: the homes that it builds: and its services.
During the year, the Committee considered in detail short and Diversity has continued to be a key item on the overall UK governance long term succession planning for Directors and key executives, together agenda during 2016.
Within Taylor Wimpey, diversity has remained a with appropriate development plans.
The Group Management Team GMT key priority for the Boards agenda and this will continue to be the case regularly reviews the Companys succession plans and talent pipelines, during 2017.
Although the Board will continue to appoint on merit, we with further action to support these areas continuing.
The Committee also recognise that boards will generally perform better when they include considered contingency and longer term succession planning for all senior top quality people from a range of backgrounds and perspectives.
roles, linked to talent development and targeted training programmes.
The Diversity will continue to be a key consideration when contemplating Committee notes the publication by the Financial Reporting Council FRC the composition and refreshing of the Board and indeed our senior and of feedback from its consultation around this area and will be monitoring wider management teams.
As noted opposite, the Company has put in place systems to measure Contingency planning concerns the Companys and the Boards and monitor diversity around the Group more effectively.
preparedness for, and responsiveness to, sudden and unexpected loss or non-availability of a key Board member, or one or more key executives.
The data becoming available from these improved systems has assisted in designing and implementing a number of improvements to Group terms It involves the identication of suitable individuals within the Company who either singly or in concert with another, can quickly assume a key role and conditions which we believe should facilitate access to, and success at, work for all, such as the following: and provide effective support until the incumbent returns to work or, in appropriate cases, a successor can be identied and appointed.
A review of Gender Pay We continue to work through the data that will drive Gender Pay Gap reporting requirements.
Analysis is being carried Board succession out to understand the sensitivities in the data that cause variances in There were two changes in the composition of the Board during 2016, results in different reporting periods.
For example in the months in which namely, the resignation of Margaret Ford and the appointment of Angela sales bonuses and commission are paid the gender pay gap is smaller Knight, in both cases as an Independent Non Executive Director, on when compared to those months where none is paid.
Angela brings considerable experience and expertise will enable us to form the context behind the eventual reported data.
in the areas of finance and remuneration policy and practices from her For good order there is a parallel piece of work which is looking at equal background as a high-level executive in a number of public and private pay at an individual employee level to ensure there are no discrepancies bodies, and will therefore enhance the overall skill sets of the Board.
This does not impact on the results of the higher level her appointment to the Board, Angela joined the Nomination Committee: reporting requirements.
the Audit Committee: and the Remuneration Committee: where her 71 taylorwimpey.
