Directors report: Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The annual increase to the National Minimum Wage became effective on Trialling a exible working policy in our Southern Counties regional 1 October 2016.
All monthly paid employees are paid the higher National business, for which the data and feedback will be available for review Living Wage or above except a small number nine people who are paid during 2017. between National Minimum Wage and National Living Wage due to age.
Established a Young Persons Forum in our West Scotland regional For our weekly paid employees all Trades and Cleaners are paid above business in order to give young members of the business a forum to National Living Wage except apprentices who are paid according to a discuss business-related issues that are important to them.
The Group has started preliminary work with the Royal National Institute Aligning benets for weekly and monthly paid employees We now offer for the Blind RNIB to audit the Companys website for ease of access increased life cover and healthcare provision for weekly employees.
Revising our Maternity Paternity Policy We recognise that many A key focus during 2017 will be a detailed review of accessibility for employees choose to combine working and having children and that disabled people, whether employees: customers: or visitors: to our ofces: employees may have family responsibilities and obligations in addition to sites: sales centres: and show homes around the UK.
the responsibilities they have to the Company.
Taylor Wimpey therefore With regard to gender, as at 31 December 2016: wishes to enable employees to full their family responsibilities in relation to the situations set out in the Family Friendly Policy.
Employees will be given The Board consisted of nine Directors, two of whom are women 22%.
the appropriate assistance and encouragement to return to the Company The GMT, which is effectively the Executive Board of Taylor Wimpey UK after family leave, so that the skills and experience of valuable staff at every Limited, our main operating company, consisted of 10 Executives, three level are retained.
Close communication is vital in order to discuss and of whom are women 30%.
plan the time away from work, the continued communication during There are two women out of 24 Regional Managing Directors 8%.
absence, and to talk through other issues including settling back into work Women across the Group account for 32% 2015: 32% of the and access to information regarding statutory rights and the Companys workforce.
rules, policies and procedures in relation to family leave.
We now offer a 31% 2015: 27% of new starters with the Company during 2016 more competitive reward package which includes enhanced maternity arewomen.
While we are making reasonable progress, we of course recognise that we still have more work to do in order to full our overall diversity ambitions and, as stated on page 69, it is a priority for 2017 to achieve further progress in this area.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2016 As noted on page 69, the Committee met on two occasions during 2016 and the activities at each meeting were: MAY NOV Review of succession planning progress and further plans, for Oversaw the selection and appointment of Angela Knight in succession to Margaret Ford as an Independent Non The Board: Executive Director.
The Non Executive Directors: Received an update of progress around Group succession Board Committees: and planning and related development plans.
The Executive levels immediately below the Board.
Received an update on contingency planning for key Review of progress and plans for developing talent.
Review of progress and plans for contingency planning.
Recommended to the Board, following a review of the Review of Board composition.
individuals performance, that Kate Barker and Rob Rowley, who will each have served for in excess of six years as an Presentation on research by the Institute of Chartered Independent Non Executive Director at the time of the Secretaries and Administrators Ernst & Young on proposals Companys 2017 AGM, should each continue in ofce and by the FRC The Investment Association regarding be recommended for re-appointment at the AGM.
Nomination Committee role and visibility generally.
72 Taylor Wimpey plc Progress of our diversity policy The Companys plans and progress in implementing its diversity policy, benchmarked against appropriate targets, are set out below.
Progress is measured and monitored by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
The Company is also committed to ensuring that our people are free from any direct or indirect discrimination, harassment, bullying or any other form of victimisation.
Our grievance and harassment policies ensure that any reported incidents are investigated.
In addition, our whistleblowing policy encourages employees to speak up, including through an independent Safecall telephone facility, against any inappropriate practices or behaviour and we regularly publicise the policy to all staff and workers on site.
Diversity policy Strategy Progress Taylor Wimpey operates in diverse We will examine our culture The Working Party together with our Specialist Consultants completed the Strategy and Action communities.
We believe that embracing and practices to determine Plan Document in the first quarter of 2016 and, after review by the Board, received approval to this diversity will enable us to succeed what further actions can be implement it.
Throughout the year comprehensive training sessions have been delivered to the through a workforce that is inclusive, taken to improve diversity and management teams of our businesses and Head Ofce functions.
In 2017 we plan to cascade creative and innovative.
Diversity covers inclusion within Taylor Wimpey.
the key elements of the training sessions to all employees using e-learning modules.
We have dened diversity and inclusivity will become a core training module for all newly-appointed Directors and to mean that we actively embrace the Managing Directors and will be a key module of our induction programme for new starters.
business and local communities in which we operate and will strive to reect their richness and character to include such aspects as gender, race, disability and religion but also diversity of thought, background and experience.
Managing diversity is about valuing We will identify people Following the success of our involvement with the Leonard Cheshire Disability Change 100 everyone as an individual valuing management practices that programme in 2015, during which one of the students was recruited by us as an Apprentice people as our employees, customers assist a diverse workforce Site Manager, we further engaged with the charity in 2016 by offering disabled students a and clients.
People have different to achieve their full potential.
summer internship and professional development programme.
Once again the scheme proved needs, values and beliefs.
Our people to be a great success and we will continue our involvement in 2017.
We will use our Community management practice demands that Engagement Programme We have continued to promote our Employer of Choice and diversity agenda through employment propositions are both to heighten awareness of numerous publications and recently participated in the Annual Diversity Awards that were consistently fair but also exible and personal interaction and sponsored by The Bank of Scotland, Glasgow Herald, and Genalytics.
Our West Scotland inclusive in ways that assist our people valuing individuals.
regional business was nominated for the Recruitment of Talent award and sponsored the Best while supporting our business needs Community Project award.
We will increase the and objectives.
opportunities for young people to join the Company and will promote continuous personal development.
We believe that everyone should have We will ensure that all We continue to work with our recruitment partners to ensure they understand and embrace our the right to equal access to employment managers involved in diversity and inclusivity agenda.
and, when in our employ, to equal recruitment and selection We recruited 147 apprentices 2015: 98, including 54 site management apprentices 2015: 29, pay and access to training and receive training that 30 management trainees 2015: 22 and 20 graduates 2015: 19.
We remain on target with the career development.
incorporates the areas recruitment of our Site Management Apprentices.
ofdiversity and We recruited an increased number of employees with disabilities.
Working with key partners we promotingequality.
hope to increase more permanent and secondment opportunities for people with disabilities.
We will extend our recruitment We introduced a new HR Information System which we believe will better capture data relating sources in order to attract a to all aspects of diversity and inclusion.
more diverse range of applicants.
We continued to partner with a number of specic diversity partners in 2016 with an objective to drive the attraction and development of a more diverse and representative workforce.
We are continuing the diversity discussion group meetings with the Chief Executive, Group HR Director and different sections of the workforce, to further embed diversity and inclusiveness at all levels of the Company.
We are keen to ensure that our website is accessible to those with sight impairment and in conjunction with the Royal National Institute for the Blind we are currently undertaking a website accessibility audit.
We are committed to ensuring that our We will encourage our people A specic focus of the Companys whistleblowing campaign is on diversity, encouraging people are free from any direct or indirect to speak out and report any employees to speak up against any inappropriate practices or behaviour.
direct or indirect discrimination, Our grievance policy ensures that any reports of harassment or bullying are investigated and We will not tolerate any behaviour that harassment or bullying.
will act promptly in addressing anyinappropriate behaviour orpractice.
We acknowledge that we must continue Diversity will be promoted Diversity is a core message within our strategy: a main item at our Executive and Regional to promote diversity in order to create an from the highest level and Management meetings: and is a standing agenda item at GMT meetings.
organisation that attracts, supports and we will ensure that our people In order to support each employee to maximise their performance and achieve their own promotes the broadest range of talent.
understand the benets personal goals we have designed a Cultural Principles framework where we describe the Establishing an organisational culture ofhaving a diverse and behaviours and attitudes we believe are required for effective performance in order to deliver with diversity as a core value will enable inclusiveworkforce.
our vision, mission and values.
Encouraging and embracing diversity is an integral part of our individuals to reach their full potential philosophy.
and provide the best service to our We have also updated the Careers section of our website to include a dedicated Diversity and customers.
Inclusion section highlighting our focus on this area.
co. uk Directors report: Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity as Chairman of the Audit Committee to summarise below and in the report which follows, the ongoing responsibilities and objectives of the Committee: the work that has been carried out during 2016: and the priorities established for 2017.
MAIN OBJECTIVE The Committee supports the Board in fullling its corporate governance To assist the Board in fullling its corporate governance responsibilities relating to the Groups risk management and internal responsibilities relating to the Groups risk management and control framework: internal audit process: financial reporting practices: internal control framework: internal audit process: financial the preparation and compliance of the Companys Annual Report and reporting practices including the key accounting judgements: Accounts: external audit process: and whistleblowing procedures.
external audit process: and whistleblowing procedures.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are summarised opposite 2016 PERFORMANCE and are available in full on the Companys website.
Following a review during 2016 it was determined that they remain valid and reect the Oversaw compliance with requirements affecting Audit Committees responsibilities under the UK Governance Code the Code Committee matters in the April 2016 update of The UK and related regulations.
Corporate Governance Code the 2016 Code.
The Committee conducts an annual evaluation of its performance against Monitored the implementation of IT initiatives, particularly in the its key objectives.
The evaluation for 2016 was recently formally assessed area of cyber security.
by the Committee at its February 2017 meeting.
Monitored the implementation of the new Group consolidation and reporting system.
The key performance areas of the Committee during 2016 are set out opposite and described in more detail on page 75.
Oversaw the implementation of initiatives relating to the effectiveness of both the Internal Audit function and the Risk The Committees key areas of focus for 2017 are also set out opposite, Management Framework.
with the continuation of robust risk management and work to further Considered the Group Fraud Risk Assessment to ensure reduce risk in areas such as cyber security, remaining key priorities for the appropriate measures remain in place.
Ensured the continuing robustness of the Risk Management The appointment of Angela Knight to the Committee with effect from Framework to changes in the operating environment.
1 November 2016 will provide an additional skill going forward, and meetings with the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, 2017 KEY AREAS OF FOCUS independent of the Executive, also assist in ensuring that reporting, forecasting, and risk management processes are subject to rigorous Oversee the design and development of a Combined Assurance review throughout the year.
Model to bring together all aspects of assurance across the Group to further support strong controls and governance.
In April 2016 the Financial Reporting Council FRC issued guidance Monitor planned initiatives to drive enhancements across those on Audit Committees and updated the Code, with the aim of further core processes that involve both the Finance and Commercial improving good governance around the Committees competence: functions to further support operational activity.
induction for new members: audit rotation: independent assessment of areas of judgement: and sufciency of resourcing for the Committee: all Monitor those significant IT initiatives that are underway to either with the aim of ensuring that it was able to perform its primary function directly protect, support and enhance the current IT environment of protecting shareholders interests in relation to the Companys financial or that are key in their contribution to business initiatives reporting and internal control.
This guidance was very much welcomed underway to enhance the experience of customers, suppliers and I can assure shareholders that your Committee is well positioned to and employees.
Receive the Group Legislative and Regulatory Risk Assessment and ensure that appropriate measures and controls are in place The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that all the relevant and are robust.
codes and regulations are complied with to ensure that the business is operating in a controlled and managed environment.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Rob Rowley.
All members of the Committee are Independent Non Executive Directors as required by the Code.
During the year, Angela Knight, who was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2016, joined the Committee on that date ROB ROWLEY and brings a wealth of financial experience and expertise, which Chairman of the Audit Committee will augment the Committees skill sets.
The Board has determined thatRob Rowley who currently chairs the audit committee at Greene King plc and Humphrey Singer each have recent and relevant financial experience as required by theCode.
In addition, and in line with the 2016 Code, the Board considers that the Audit Committee Committee purpose and responsibilities when considered on a whole has the necessary competence relevant The membership of the Audit Committee is set out in the table opposite.
to the housebuilding sector in which the Company operates.
Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Executive Committee members Number of meetings attended Directors, Head of Internal Audit, other senior executives and by Deloitte Rob Rowley Chairman 3 3 LLP Deloitte, the external auditor.
The Committee also meets privately with representatives from Deloitte during at least two Committee meetings Kate Barker 3 3 per annum, which normally take place around the time of the full and half Mike Hussey 3 3 year financial statements, in order to discuss any matters which the auditor a Angela Knight 1 1 may wish to raise in confidence, with only the Secretary being present.
b The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
The reports Humphrey Singer 2 3 considered at the February 2017 meeting concluded the Committees a Appointed on 1 November 2016. activities with regard to the Companys 2016 reporting and have b Due to urgent attendance at another companys meeting, by prior agreement been included on page 75. with the Board and the Committee, as explained in more detail on page 57.
74 Taylor Wimpey plc At those meetings, the Committee carried out its remit which primarily In carrying out these activities, the Committee places reliance on includes at its February 2016 meeting: regularreports from Executive Management, Internal Audit and from the Companys external auditor.
In monitoring the financial reporting practices, Reviewing the final draft 2015 Annual Report and Accounts together with any significant accounting and audit issues thereon: considering the Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, areas of judgement, issues of materiality and the external auditors report on the progress the going concern assumptions and compliance with accounting of the audit: conducting a formal compliance check.
standards and the requirements of the Code.
During the year, the Committee reviewed, prior to publication, other statements affecting The disclosure of relevant audit information to the auditors and the processes in place to underpin it.
the Group concerning price sensitive information as necessary.
Reviewing the Groups 2015 draft Full Year Results Statement: Committee competence and advising the Board regarding the appropriateness of the proposed A key requirement of the FRCs April 2016 guidance on Audit Committees final dividend on ordinary shares for 2015 and special dividend for 2016. was that each Committee member should have sufficient knowledge: Conducting the 2015 year end risk review.
training: and expertise: to contribute effectively to the Committees Leading the appraisal of the external auditors performance during the deliberations.
audit of the Companys 2015 results.
As Committee Chairman, I have extensive experience of both chairing and Reviewing the Committees performance against its agreed objectives being a member of Audit Committee.
I currently chair the Audit Committee for 2015 and setting its key objectives and priorities for 2016. at Greene King plc and previously at moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Holding a private meeting with Deloitte.
which gives me an insight into key areas of shareholder concern and at its July 2016 meeting: independent experience of robustly challenging both the executive and Reviewing the final draft Half Year Statement for 2016 together with the external and internal auditor.
details of any significant accounting issues thereon: considering I am assisted by four other Independent Non Executive Directors: issues of materiality and the external auditors report on its review Kate Barker, who has wide experience of key areas in which the Company of that statement.
operates day to day, having led Government policy reviews into housing Conducting the 2016 half year risk review.
supply and land use planning: Mike Hussey, who has in-depth experience Receiving the Group fraud risk assessment.
in land development and marketing: Angela Knight, who joined the Committee on 1 November 2016 and brings experience of financial Receiving a detailed presentation on progress to date and plans services and banking: and Humphrey Singer, who is the Group Finance for further improving the Groups resilience to cyber attacks.
Director of Dixons Carphone plc and has detailed knowledge of financial Advising the Board regarding the appropriateness of the proposed reporting preparation and compliance for public companies.
interim ordinary dividend for 2016 and special dividend for 2017.
Between us, I am confident that the members of the Audit Committee Reviewing Deloittes audit plan for the audit of the Companys have the necessary competence relevant for the house building sector 2016 accounts, and report on the progress of the audit to date.
Holding a private meeting with Deloitte.
As described earlier in the Nomination Committee Report on page 70, Holding a private meeting with the Head of Internal Audit.
there is a formal process of induction for new Directors and this includes at its December 2016 meeting: specic reference to assisting competence in relevant Committee areas Reviewing and conrming the processes which allow the Committee to through exposure to appropriate areas of the Companys operations ensure that the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts meets the and performance.
requirements of Code provision C. 1.
All the members of the Audit Committee are Independent Non Executive Reviewing and conrming the processes which allow the Committee to Directors and both myself, as Chairman and Humphrey Singer have recent assess the performance of Deloitte during the audit of the Companys and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
2016 full year reporting and the effectiveness of the external audit I am confident that the composition: balance: and expertise of the Audit process: and in light of the findings, to make a recommendation to the Committee can give shareholders confidence that the financial: reporting: Board as to Deloittes re-appointment at the 2017 AGM.
risk: and control processes of the Company are subjected to the Receiving a brieng on key accounting judgements with regard appropriate level of independent, robust and challenging oversight.
Risk management and internal control Overseeing the process leading to the Boards Viability Statement included in its 2016 reporting.
The Group has established an ongoing process of risk management and Conducting the 2016 year end risk review.
internal control, applying Main Principle C. 2 and its Supporting Provisions of the Code.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the system of Receiving a detailed presentation on progress to date and plans for further improving the Groups resilience to cyber attacks and wider internal control, which has been designed to meet the requirements of the IT security generally.
Group and the risks it encounters, including taking account of environmental, social and governance considerations.
The systems cannot eliminate the risk at its February 2017 meeting: of failure but rather seek to manage both the likelihood of their occurrence Reviewing the final draft 2016 Annual Report and Accounts together and the extent of their impact, and can only provide reasonable and not with any significant accounting and audit issues thereon: considering absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
issues of materiality and the external auditors report on the progress The Principal Risks facing the Company, as assessed by the Board, of the audit: conducting a formal compliance check.
are set out on pages 44 to 47, together with information on action taken Reviewing the Groups draft 2016 Full Year Results Statement: and or planned to mitigate each one.
and advising the Board regarding the appropriateness of the proposed The Board makes its assessment of risk half yearly, after overseeing a final dividend on ordinary shares for 2016 and special dividend for 2017. bottom-up and top-down review of risk in all areas of the business.
Action Concluding the 2016 year end risk review.
to mitigate the effect of each one is led by the Chief Executive either Holding a private meeting with Deloitte.
In addition, at each meeting, the Committee also reviewed its other The Boards assessments use a standard methodology which takes areas of responsibility, including: into account environmental, social and governance considerations.
In compliance with the Code, the Board also regularly reviews the The risk management and internal control framework.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in providing The internal audit process and the review of reports received and a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
Checking for any incidences of fraud, actual, alleged or precautionary, and ensuring proper controls and a response plan are in place.
The Companys whistleblowing procedures and the status 75 of any investigations.
