Directors report: Governance CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board considers that there is an effective balance with three Executive Directors and five Non Executive Directors plus myself ROLE OF THE DIRECTORS as Chairman, which ensures that each viewpoint is properly represented around the Board table.
It also ensures that in line Whilst all Directors share collective responsibility for the activities with the Code, there is an effective balance of guidance, support of the Board, some Directors roles have been dened in more detail and constructive challenge to the Executive.
as Governance considerations have developed over time, as follows: The appointment of Angela Knight followed a comprehensive search, assessment and recruitment process, led by the Nomination Committee, the details of which are set out in more CHAIRMAN detail on page 70.
Ensuring high standards of corporate Engaging individually with Directors governance and setting the cultural tone as required The Nomination Committee makes recommendations on from the top Ensuring appropriate induction and appointments and succession planning to the Board, and more Building a well-balanced and highly development programmes for effective Board individual Directors details can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on Chairing Board meetings and setting Agreeing the Chief Executives personal pages 69 to 73.
Board agendas objectives Promoting effective Board relationships Ensuring there is effective two-way In accordance with the Code, all Directors will again be subject communication and debate with Encouraging constructive challenge and to election or re-election as appropriate by shareholders at the shareholders facilitating effective communication Annual General Meeting of the Company which is being held on between Directors Maintaining an appropriate balance 27 April 2017.
Biographical details of each Director can be found between the interests of stakeholders Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board and enabling an annual review of its on page 55 and also on page 63. effectiveness I believe that the new balance and composition of the Board, which includes five Independent Non Executive Directors, will continue to provide the right blend of experience, expertise CHIEF EXECUTIVE and challenge to ensure good governance so as to enable the Developing and implementing Group Ensuring the Chairman and the Board strategy are kept advised and updated regarding Company to successfully implement its strategy.
key matters Recommending the strategic plan and related annual budget Maintaining relationships with investors Diversity and advising the Board accordingly Ensuring coherent leadership of the Diversity and inclusivity has continued to be a key item on the Group Setting the culture at the top, particularly with regard to compliance and Managing the Groups risk prole and overall UK governance agenda during 2016, as the Company sustainability establishing effective internal controls works towards the target introduced by Lord Davies of Abersochs Day to day running of the business Regularly reviewing the organisational review forthe proportion of women on each FTSE 350 companys structure: developing the Executive board to increasefrom the current 25% target to 33% by 2020.
Team: and planning for succession The Board very much welcomes the increased target which is designed to givegreater impetus to the progress of enhanced gender diversity on PLCboards.
This, together with other aspects GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR of diversity is very much in the thinking of the Nomination Operational responsibility for managing In conjunction with the Group the Companys financial affairs, including Management Team oversees the Committee when considering the balance and composition of the treasury and tax matters Companys risk prole Board and the structuring of talent development initiatives across Oversees the commercial and pension the Group.
The Board also notes the recent Parker review and its departments associated Report into the Ethnic Diversity of Boards.
Conclusion NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Providing effective and constructive Serving on Board committees I believe that your Board remains effective and continues to work challenge to management Providing advice to management and well.
I am confident that the Board has the right balance of skills, Assisting in development and approval sharing their experience and wisdom expertise and professionalism to continue to deliver strong of strategy Keeping abreast of shareholders views governance whilst allowing the Executive Directors to implement and deliver the strategy as set out on pages 26 to 27 within the culture that we have worked hard to establish.
Whilst I am also SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR pleased with the Boards activity and approach with regard Acting as a sounding-board for the Leading the evaluation of the Chairmans to corporate governance, we continually look for ways to learn Chairman on Board-related matters performance and improve.
Chairing meetings in the absence of Leading the search for a new Chairman, the Chairman when necessary As ever, I very much look forward to meeting with shareholders Acting as an intermediary for other Available to shareholders on matters at the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2017 and, as always, Directors, when necessary which cannot be resolved otherwise along with all ofyour Directors who will all be present at the AGM, remain available to answer or respond to your questions, concerns and suggestions at anytime.
GROUP LEGAL DIRECTOR AND COMPANY SECRETARY Advising the Board on matters of Ensuring effective support to the Board corporate governance and its meetings and agendas to enable efficient process As Group Legal Director, being responsible for all legal compliance Working with the Chairman to ensure matters relating to the Group good governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group Supporting the Chairman and Non Executive Directors Point of contact for investors on matters of corporate governance KEVIN BEESTON Read more about individual Directors skill sets on page 63 Chairman 58 Taylor Wimpey plc BOARD ACTIVITIES AND PRIORITIES Regular items at Board meetings include the review of Board Committee activities Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees : detailed updates on health, safety and environmental matters: reports from the Executive Directors covering progress towards the Companys strategic objectives, its financial position and prospects, customer service, legal and corporate governance matters, and compliance updates: and shareholder matters including an update from the Companys stockbroker which details movement in the share register.
Special matters considered during the year at meetings were as follows: FEB APR Reviewed the draft 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and Reviewed the draft Trading Update to update shareholders the Sustainability Report on progress for the year to date Established and reviewed action points arising from the Reviewed arrangements for the 2016 Annual General Meeting 2015 Board evaluation Discussion of medium-term strategic targets and dividend Determined the amount of the final ordinary dividend for strategy announced in May 2016 2015 and the special dividend for 2016 to be proposed Review of proposed issue of Private Placement Notes to shareholders at the 2016 AGM Approved in principle the draft Full Year Results Statement Conducted the annual risk review Agreed the amended strategic messages following a strategy review MAY JUN Received a performance and strategic update on Land Considered the potential implications for the business of the and Planning EU Referendum result Reviewed progress on improving customer service Considered the first year-end projection of results for 2016 Approved revisions to share dealing procedures to reect the Market Abuse Regulations JUL SEP Considered the half year results for 2016 This meeting was held as part of an away day and the Board received updates on the following: Determined the level of interim dividend for 2016 and special dividend proposed for 2017 Operational matters from each Division Considered the half year risk review An update from the Taylor Wimpey Midlands regional business Reviewed the draft Half Year Results Statement A brieng on social media A brieng on Project 2020 OCT DEC Reviewed the draft Trading Update Detailed discussion on the Groups year-end forecast Received a presentation from the Central London Region Detailed review of the year end risk management report Received the latest HR update Reviewed the outcome of the Board evaluation for 2016 and agreed action points Received a brieng on the implication of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Received an update on Diversity and Inclusivity 59 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Directors report: Governance GENERAL BOARD GOVERNANCE the financial information made available both to the Board and to the Companys shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors also play an TAYLOR WIMPEY PLC BOARD important part in the appointment or removal of Executive Directors and in general succession planning for the Board and other executive and senior management positions below Board level.
Board attendance The Board met on eight occasions during 2016 and there was full attendance at all meetings by all Directors except, as explained on page 57, Humphrey Singer missed two meetings, including one he had cleared prior to joining the Board at the end of 2015 and one clash that KEVIN BEESTON materialised following the outcome of the United Kingdom European Union Referendum.
The Board has considered the number of Board meetings Chairman that take place each year and has concluded that eight meetings remain appropriate but will keep the number under review.
Additional Board Number of meetings meetings would be convened as and when necessary and there are also Board members attended in 2016 processes in place for approving transactions and other matters that may KEVIN BEESTON require approval in between Board meetings.
Chairman 8 8 Directors make every effort to attend all Board and applicable Committee PETE REDFERN meetings, as strongly evidenced by the exceptionally strong attendance records over several years.
Where, exceptionally, a Director is unable to Chief Executive 8 8 attend a meeting, it is Board policy that the Chairman and or the Group RYAN MANGOLD Legal Director and Company Secretary the Secretary will, as soon as Group Finance Director 8 8 possible, brief the Director fully on the business transacted at the meeting JAMES JORDAN and on any decisions that have been taken.
In addition, the views of the Director are sought ahead of the meeting and conveyed to those attending Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 8 8 by the Chairman and or the Secretary as appropriate.
Details of the ROB ROWLEY attendance of each Director at Board and Committee meetings are set Senior Independent Director 8 8 out in the table opposite and on pages 69, 74 and 78.
KATE BARKER Board responsibilities Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing strategic and MIKE HUSSEY entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, within a framework of strong governance, effective controls and a culture of openness and Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 transparency, which enables opportunities and risks to be assessed a ANGELA KNIGHT and managed.
In addition, the Board sets the Companys strategic aims: Independent Non Executive Director 1 1 ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in b HUMPHREY SINGER placeforthe Company to meet its objectives: and reviews .
Independent Non Executive Director 6 8 c MARGARET FORD Company culture Former Director 7 7 The Board is responsible for the Companys culture and for dening and setting the Companys values and standards, which it does, amongst a Appointed 1 November 2016. other things, through a number of policies and codes of conduct, and b Two meetings were missed during 2016: one meeting as notied and agreed ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders prior to his appointment to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board: and one meeting by are clearly understood and met.
The Board is led in these respects by the prior agreement with the Board, as explained in more detail on page 57.
Chairman, who ensures the Board operates correctly, setting its culture c Resigned with effect from 1 November 2016. and, by extension, that of the Company in its operations and its dealings with all stakeholders.
During the course of 2016, the Board actively reviewed and monitored The Board and its Committees several key areas including health, safety, and environmental matters as As at the date of this Report, the Board consists of nine Directors, set out below, customer service, land and major projects, risk strategy, namely:the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Independent and diversity and inclusivity.
The Board will keep all of these areas under NonExecutive Directors.
Their names, responsibilities and other details regular review.
On 1 November 2016, Margaret Ford stood down as an Independent Non Executive Director and Angela Knight was appointed Health, safety and environment on that date to the Board as an Independent Non Executive Director, after As also set out in our 2016 Sustainability Report, which will shortly be aselection process led by the Nomination Committee as set out on available online at www.
co. uk corporate sustainability, the page70.
Board is fully committed to providing a safe place in which our employees and subcontractors can work, and that our customers can live.
We The role of the Independent Non Executive Directors is to offer advice also ensure that all of our sites are developed to high standards of and guidance to the Executive Directors, using their wide experience in environmental management.
As the first substantive item at each Board business and from their diverse backgrounds, details of which are set out meeting, the Board receives detailed reports on health, safety and in their biographies on page 55 and in the Board diversity analysis on page environmental matters in respect of the Companys operations in the 63.
They also provide a constructive challenge, monitoring the overall UK and Spain.
The Companys detailed carbon reporting, as required direction and strategy of the Company: scrutinising the performance of by BEIS, is set out on page 36. the Executive Directors: and satisfying themselves as to the integrity of 60 Taylor Wimpey plc HOW WE ARE GOVERNED THE BOARD Provides strategic and entrepreneurial leadership within a Establishes the Groups risk appetite and oversees processes framework of strong governance and effective controls designed to ensure compliance therewith Responsible for the Companys culture and for dening defines which matters are reserved for decision of the Board and setting its values and standards including profit expectations and dividend policy AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Reviews and advises the Board on Reviews the balance, diversity, Advises the Board on remuneration proposed full year and half year independence and effectiveness of policy at Board and executive level reporting and announcements the Board Ensures that remuneration is geared to connected therewith Oversees the selection, interview and the enhancement of shareholder value Undertakes a detailed half-yearly appointment of new Directors to the Ensures that targets are appropriate review of the Groups risk assessment Board and are geared to delivering the and mitigation processes and Reviews succession and contingency strategy whilst appropriately limiting outcomes, and advises the Board on planning across the Groups senior risk-taking its annual risk review positions and related training, Ensures that rewards for achieving Oversees the relationship with the development and talent management or exceeding agreed targets are not external auditor Reviews, sets targets for, and drives excessive Oversees the reporting of internal audit the strategy and progress to further Promotes the increasing alignment of investigations and the implementation improve diversity and inclusivity executive and wider employee interests of changes resulting therefrom throughout the Group with those of shareholders by Reviews the whistleblowing policy and encouraging appropriate share plan any investigation participation and executive shareholding guidelines Read more on page 74 Read more on page 69 Read more on page 78 Operational oversight Additional information Operational management of the Companys business is undertaken by The following documents are available for review on the Companys the Chief Executive who receives advice from the Group Management website at www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations Team GMT.
The GMT is the most senior executive committee and, in corporate-governance: addition to the Chief Executive, consists of the Group Finance Director, Schedule of matters specically reserved for the decision of the the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, the three Divisional Board, including full oversight of all decisions on profit expectations Chairmen, the Group HR Director, the Land and Planning Director, the and Dividend Policy.
Divisional Managing Director of Central and East London and the Terms of reference of the Board Committees: Audit, Nomination Managing Director of the Major Developments business.
The GMT meets and Remuneration, which outline their objectives and responsibilities on a regular basis and also once each month with the Divisional Managing anddene a programme of activities to support the discharge of Directors when it sits in the capacity of the wider Group Operational Team.
The Board also receives regular reports and minutes from the Treasury Policies covering operational, compliance, corporate responsibility and Committee, which meets under the chairmanship of the Group Finance stakeholder matters, which are reviewed whenever necessary to take Director, and also comprises the Group Legal Director and Company account of developments in corporate governance, changes in Secretary, one of the Divisional Chairmen who rotate periodically and legislation and revised processes.
The key responsibilities of the Treasury Committee are, broadly, to monitor and keep under review the Groups financial risks, Advice available to the Board financial policies, financial facilities, covenant compliance and insurance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
programme in the light of current and proposed strategic and The Board has an established procedure whereby Directors may take , and to make recommendations to the Board independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they or GMT, as appropriate, regarding policy or operational changes in judge it necessary to do so in order to discharge their responsibilities these areas.
co. uk Directors report: Governance GENERAL BOARD GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board took advice during the year from Slaughter and May, on the As part of the 2016 Board evaluation process, the Board reviewed and continued effectiveness of the Companys procedures for dealing in the re-afrmed that it considers each of the Non Executive Directors to be Companys shares in light of the Market Abuse Regulations which came independent in character and judgement and that there are no into force on 3 July 2016, following which the existing guidance was relationships which could affect the Directors judgement.
In line with the updated and re-issued to all restricted employees.
Code, a rigorous evaluation took place with regard to both Kate Barker and Rob Rowley as they will have served six and seven years respectively Advice was also received from Deloitte during the year via the Audit by the time of the AGM in 2017.
Committee on the significant governance developments during the year.
In addition, the Board re-evaluated each Directors time commitments, The Board receives at each meeting a report from JPMorgan Cazenove andwas satisfied that they continued to allocate sufficient time to the Cazenove on the sector and the relative performance of the Companys Company in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively, including share price.
not only attendance at Board and applicable Committee meetings but also All businesses and employees are expected to operate at all times to the for preparation time for meetings, visits to businesses including the annual highest standards of integrity and conduct in all matters concerning the Board away day visit and other additional requirements that may be Group.
Accordingly, there is a Code of Business Conduct, which sets required from time to time.
Recognising the importance of time outthe standard for individual dealings both internally and externally.
commitment to shareholders, this will continue to be kept under review Formal policies have been adopted, which set out the ethical framework during 2017 including as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
within which all Taylor Wimpey companies and employees are required to The Chairman, at the time of his appointment on 1 July 2010, met the undertake their business this includes, in line with the Bribery Act 2010, independence criteria as set out in the Code.
an Anti-Corruption Policy which requires an annual sign-off by designated seniormanagement.
All business units receive training each year from Management external experts on legislative and regulatory matters.
Progress in achieving the Group Strategy is reviewed at each Board These policies are available for review on the Companys website at meeting and is reported on pages 26 to 27.
The Chief Executive has www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations  for preparing and reviewing strategic plans for the Group governance and relevant reporting against these is provided to the Audit and the annual budgetary process.
These are subject to formal approval Committee by the Head of Internal Audit and the Secretary as appropriate.
Budgets are re-examined in comparison with business forecasts Board and Committee balance, diversity, independence throughout the year to ensure they are sufciently robust to reect the andeffectiveness possible impact of changing economic conditions and circumstances.
A key role of the Board Chairman is to ensure that the Board is conducted TheChief Executive and the Board conduct regular reviews of actual so as to allow the Independent Non Executive Directors to challenge the results and future projections with comparison against budget and prior Executive Directors constructively whilst, at the same time, also supporting year, together with various treasury reports.
Disputes that may give rise them to implement the strategy and run the business effectively.
Another tosignicant litigation or contractual claims are monitored at each Board key role is to ensure that it has the right blend of skill, independence and meeting, with specic updates on any material developments or new knowledge and this is something that is kept under regular review in matters presented by the Secretary.
conjunction with the Nomination Committee.
The Group has clearly dened policies, processes and procedures It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that proposed governing all areas of the business, which will continue to be reviewed and appointments to the Board, and succession planning, are based on rened in order to meet the requirements of the business and changing merit, and judged against objective criteria, whilst also having due regard market circumstances.
Dened authority limits continue to be closely to thebenets of diversity and inclusiveness, including gender, age, monitored in response to prevailing market conditions.
Any investment, disability, ethnicity, thought and experience.
The Board also continues acquisition or significant purchase or disposal of land requires detailed to recogniseand take very seriously its responsibility to comply with appraisal and is subject to approval by the Board or the Chief Executive, the recommendations of the Davies Report, encouraging increased depending on the value and nature of the investment or contract.
participation by women on boards, which was previously targeted at There is a clearly identiable organisational structure and a framework 25% on FTSE 100 boards by 2015 but more recently increased to 33% ofdelegated authority approved by the Board within which individual for FTSE 350 companies by 2020, which the Board welcomes.
responsibilities of senior executives of Group companies are identied The proportion of women on the Taylor Wimpey Board has remained andcan be monitored.
The Operating Framework, within which delegated two out of nine 22% throughout 2016 and as at the date of this Annual authorities, responsibilities and related processes are explained in detail, is Report.
The Board will keep its balance and composition under regular available for review and guidance online by any employee through the review and this was also an action point arising out of the 2016 Board Companys intranet.
These activities are reinforced through process evaluation exercise.
compliance and other audits conducted by Internal Audit.
The Board also notes and welcomes the Parker Review and its Report into These processes and controls performed strongly during 2016 when they the Ethnic Diversity of Boards.
were tested through the swift action taken to apply more stringent controls on planned expenditure during the uncertainty following the United Annual re-election to the Board Kingdom European Union Referendum vote in June 2016.
The Code requires every Director to seek election or re-election, as The annual employee performance appraisal process is , at each years Annual General Meeting AGM.
Accordingly, based, with individual objectives cascaded down from the appropriate atthe 2017 AGM, every Director, irrespective of the date of his or her business objectives.
The process also identies training needs to support appointment and the length of his or her service on the Board, will be achievement of objectives.
submitted for election in the case of Angela Knight, as she was appointed since the last AGM or re-election in the case of all of the other Directors.
During 2016 the Groups control environment was further enhanced through a robust risk assessment and review led by the Audit Committee.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed in this respect and supporting biographical details of the Directors appear in the Notice of Meeting on pages 158 to 159.
62 Taylor Wimpey plc Ensuring there is no conict of interest effectively and that any current external appointments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which the Director is able to devote to In order to assist Directors in complying with their duty to avoid conicts the Company.
This is further borne out by Directors attendance at Board or possible conicts of interest, it is standard procedure that the Board and Committee meetings, which has been at or very close to 100% over must first give its clearance to such potential conicts of interest which many years.
would include directorships or other interests in outside companies and organisations following which, an entry is then made in the statutory This 2016 Annual Report and Accounts register which the Company maintains for this purpose.
Your Directors have responsibility for preparing this 2016 Annual Report Whenever any Director considers that he or she is, or may be, interested and Accounts and for making certain conrmations concerning it.
In in any contract or arrangement to which the Company is or may be a accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the Board considers that, party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in accordance with the taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
In such information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, cases, unless allowed by the Articles, any Director with such an interest is performance, business model and strategy.
not permitted to participate in any discussions or decisions relating to the The Board was able to reach this conclusion after receiving advice from contract or arrangement.
The processes of review and assessment followed The Board undertakes a regular review of each Directors interests, if any, by that Committee in that respect, are set out on pages 74-77. outside of the Company.
In addition, all new appointments and interests of Directors are reported to the Board for consideration or noting as The Viability Statement, as required by the September 2014 revision of the appropriate.
Following these reviews, the Board remains satisfied that, in Code, appears on page 47. line with the Code, all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities as Directors RELEVANT SKILLS AND EXPERTISE Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director, has in-depth It is a requirement of the Code that the Board and its Committees expertise in land development and marketing, particularly in London, should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, gained from his previous roles as a director of Land Securities plc and independence and knowledge of the Company, to enable duties and as head of leasing and marketing of the Canary Wharf Group plc.
Mike responsibilities to be discharged effectively.
This was reviewed during is currently CEO of Almacantar, a property development fund he the year and was utilised in drawing up the recruitment framework, founded in 2010. including the list of desired skills in the process used for the appointment of a new Independent Non Executive Director during the Angela Knight, Independent Non Executive Director, has significant year.
The Board considers that each Director brings relevant and high-level experience in both the public and private sectors.
In the public complementary skills, experience and background to the Board, details sector, she was a Member of Parliament from 1992 until 1997, including of which are set out below, and additional information is also set out in two years as the Economic Secretary at HM Treasury and is currently the biographies on page 55.
Chairman of the Ofce of Tax Simplication in HM Treasury.
In the private sector, she has significant experience as a non executive director Kevin Beeston, Chairman, has a wealth of commercial, financial including as the Senior Independent Director of quoted companies.
and high level management experience including being a former CEO of a FTSE 100 company.
Kevin also has significant experience Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and Senior of chairing boards of both public and private companies and of being Independent Director, has a wealth of financial, commercial and a non executive director and sitting on audit, nomination and management expertise, principally from his time as Finance Director remuneration committees.
of Reuters plc and Deputy Chairman of Cable & Wireless plc.
Rob has Pete Redfern, Chief Executive, has operational responsibility for substantial experience as a non executive director including the chairing delivering the Companys strategy in a profitable, safe and of audit committees and has recent and relevant financial experience as environmentally responsible manner.
Pete has significant financial, required by the Code.
operational and management experience, gained from his various roles Humphrey Singer, Independent Non Executive Director, has a wealth of in industry and from his time at KPMG.
In 2014 he joined the Board of financial experience, most recently in his role as the Group Finance Travis Perkins plc as an independent non executive director and serves Director of Dixons Carphone plc.
In addition, Humphrey has also on their remuneration and Stay Safe committees.
expertise in the areas of both digital solutions and customer services Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director, has operational responsibility which has already been useful to the Company.
for managing the Companys nances.
Ryan has financial, treasury, risk Division of responsibilities and financial control expertise including that gained from his time with Mondi Group and Anglo American plc.
The Board has an established framework of delegated financial, commercial and operational authorities, which define the scope and James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, is a powers of the Chief Executive and of operational management.
solicitor and oversees compliance with legal and regulatory obligations and manages the Secretariat and Legal Departments.
James has In line with the Code, the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman significant legal, commercial, transactional and regulatory governance andthe Chief Executive have been clearly dened, set out in related experience and expertise.
writingand signed by Kevin Beeston and Pete Redfern in their respectivecapacities.
Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director, is an industryrecognised economist and has led policy reviews for the Government in the areas of land use, planning and housing supply.
Kate also brings a wider economic insight gained through her various roles, including as a Member of the Oversight Board of the Ofce for Budget Responsibility.
co. uk Directors report: Governance GENERAL BOARD GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board action and objectives 2016 Board objectives 2016 Performance 2017 Board objectives Strategy To set the Companys strategic The Board regularly reviewed performance to date To ensure the Companys strategy and execution objectives and strategy for towards achieving its strategic objectives.
remains robust in the light of theirachievement.
any forecast market and wider At each meeting, detailed reports from the Executive economic changes.
To review the Companys Team were discussed, reviewing forward resourcing performance, resourcing, and requirements in the areas of capital, finance, people To ensure the Companys achievements affecting its ability andland, and operating decisions taken or proposed performance remains on to deliver the strategy.
schedule to achieve the strategy.
To review and, if necessary, Detailed scenario planning was reviewed, together To take all measures to ensure revisethe strategy or its with assessments of the strategys relative robustness that health and safety remains objectives in the light of wider in each case.
the Groups top priority and will economic, financial and market remain an ongoing area of focus.
Presentations were made to the team throughout the considerations.
business, explaining the strategy: progress achieved To ensure the strategy is to date: and targets for further improvement.
sufciently resilient in different forward looking scenarios.
Risk To review and agree the The risk review was conducted twice during the year, To ensure risk remains within the management Companys risk appetite in at the Boards July half year and February full year Companys agreed risk appetite seeking to achieve its strategic meetings, and covered both the systems used and and is adequately monitored and objectives.
At the February meeting the reviewed as appropriate to reect position was subject to independent check with external and internal changes.
To regularly review the external auditor reports on risk processes connected robustness of the Companys with the annualaudit.
systems of risk reporting: assessment: and The Boards annual risk review for 2016 was internalcontrols.
completed at the February 2017 Board meeting following a process embracing all levels of the Groupsbusinesses.
Governance To comply with the April 2016 The Company has embraced the key requirements To ensure that there is continued and values revision of the UK Corporate of the revised Code in its 2016 reporting and has now full compliance with the Code Governance Code the Code.
substantially complied in all respects, ahead of the and with wider statutory and requirement to do so for its 2017 reporting year.
To fully implement any related governance requirements, The Companys Remuneration Policy has been To ensure that remuneration is which relate to audit and Audit reviewed and updated, with advisers, by the to remain within the Companys Committee matters.
Remuneration Committee each year to ensure it Remuneration Policy and remains appropriate and proportionate and helps proportionately rewards To fully comply with the to drive and reward achievement of the strategy.
updated Guidance on Audit The revised Policy is recommended to shareholders Committees issued by the To implement the improvements as Resolution 20 at the 2017 AGM on page 155.
Financial Reporting Council identied on page 67 arising in April 2016.
The Board appraisal was conducted internally for from the 2016 Board appraisal.
2016 asreported on page 67 and will be externallyTo review the remuneration To conduct an  facilitated, as required at least each third year, framework to ensure that Board appraisal.
for 2017. it remains appropriate, To monitor shareholder feedback proportionate, and does In addition to the AGM, shareholder and institutional and continue to actively promote not encourage excessive feedback was sought when presenting the Companys wider engagement.
half year and full year results and in notifying To further embed Modern Slavery proposalsfor updating the Remuneration Policy.
The To conduct an annual Act best practice.
results of the feedback from shareholders was taken Boardevaluation.
intoconsideration by the Board together with advice To take account of shareholder from itsstockbrokers.
Modern Slavery Act 2015: The Company has reviewed its operations and its supply chain and made its first statement in March 2017.
The Company has reviewed its policies and procedures so as to reduce the risks of modern slavery and related practices as far as possible.
See page 100 for further details.
64 Taylor Wimpey plc Board objectives 2016 Board objectives 2016 Performance 2017 Board objectives Organisational To ensure that the Company The Board reviewed reports at each meeting on To ensure that resourcing capacity has the necessary resources in the financial performance of the Company and the remains sufficient to achieve terms of finance, people, supply availability, currently and forecast going forward, the strategy together with wider chain and Group structure to ofnancial, people and supply chain resourcing.
enable it to deliver the strategy.
The Board and the Nomination Committee formally To ensure that training and To ensure that its people are reviewed on two occasions the strategy for development plans support suitably trained and that succession planning and related training assessment continuous improvement in the sufficient provision is being and provision, both for the Board and the executives teamand contribute towards made for succession planning immediately below Board level, and progress in wider diversity improvements.
The Board also reviews human resources related matters at each Board meeting.
Stakeholder To increase shareholder Shareholder communication was conducted To actively encourage shareholder engagement attendance and voting, through encouraging attendance at the AGM: steadily participation through clear including registering proxies, increasing voting on resolutions proposed thereat: messaging and reporting and at the AGM.
briengs to analysts and the press: and direct careful review of shareholder consultation on certain special matters.
To keep employees engaged and informed on the Companys Employee involvement was promoted through To monitor the embedding of the performance and prospects.
regular brieng material online and in hard copy: Customer Service improvements interactive online Q&As: strategy updates around introduced during 2015 and 2016.
To assist prospective and actual the businesses: and explanation of Company purchasers of houses in making To ensure the Group works with performance around half year and full year reporting and successfully concluding subcontractors and suppliers to and trading statements.
The Board reviewed the what is, for many, the largest constantly seek ways of further employee voice proposal being put forward by value and potentially most improving quality: sustainability: the Government.
stressful transaction of anddelivery in a safe working theirlives.
Customer Service processes were subject to detailed environment.
review and amendment, with the implementation of To maintain communication and To implement the employee voice the improvements subject to Board monitoring a culture of continuous proposals via the proposed throughout the year.
improvement throughout the National Employee Forum.
The supply chain received constant feedback from Group businesses, suppliers and subcontractors, which fed into updated arrangements andagreements.
co. uk Directors report: Governance GENERAL BOARD GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Section C: Accountability Adherence to the Code The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable The Main Principles of the 2016 Code and guidance on where to nd assessment of the companys position and prospects.
detailsin these reports on how the Company has complied with it, See page 77 areset out below: The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent Section A: Leadership of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic Every company should be headed by an effective board which is objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk management collectively responsible for the long term success of the company.
See page 75 See page 60 The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, the company between the running of the board and the executive risk management and internal control principles and for responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
See page 75 to 77 The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and Section D: Remuneration ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
See page 58 Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non executive the long term success of the company.
Performance-related directors should constructively challenge and help develop elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
See page 58 See page 79 There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing Section B: Effectiveness policy on executive remuneration and for xing the remuneration The board and its committees should have the appropriate packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the deciding his or her own remuneration.
See pages 82 to 84 company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
See page 62 Section E: Relations with shareholders There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the the appointment of new directors to the board.
See page 70 mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
See page 62 shareholders takes place.
See page 68 All directors should receive induction on joining the board and The board should use general meetings to communicate with should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
investors and to encourage their participation.
See page 68 See page 70 Statement of compliance The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Company complied with in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its all the provisions of the Code: the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA duties.
See page 70 Disclosure and Transparency Rules sub-chapters 7.1 and 7.2 which set The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual out certain mandatory disclosure requirements: the FCAs Listing Rules evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and 9.8.
7AR which include the comply or explain individual directors.
See page 67 requirement: and the BEIS Directors Remuneration Reporting All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, Regulations and Narrative Reporting Regulations.
These regulations subject to continued satisfactory performance.
See page 58 are publicly available at: The Code can be found at www.
uk The FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well as Listing Rules can be found at www.
uk The BEIS Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations and Narrative Reporting Regulations can be found at www.
uk The FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting can be found at www.
