o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP During the period, Ronald Stewart was Chairman of the Dear Shareholder, Audit Committee.
The other members were David Bernstein The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the and Andrew Jennings.
integrity of the Groups financial statements and reporting Provision C. 3.1 of the Code provides that the Audit responsibilities and to maintain its internal control and Committee should comprise of at least three independent compliance procedures.
During the period, the Audit Non-Executive Directors, and that the Chairman should not Committee focused on the Groups internal and external audit be a member of the Audit Committee.
The Board recognises processes and risk management particularly cyber risk.
that the Company has not been compliant with Provision C. 3.1 This Audit Committee Report has been prepared in of the Code during the period but considers David Bernstein, accordance with the Code and includes: notwithstanding his appointment as Chairman, to be a valuable a description of the significant issues that the Audit member of the Audit Committee because of his recent and Committee considered in relation to the financial extensive relevant financial experience.
statements, and how these issues were addressed: The terms of reference for the Audit Committee an explanation of how the Audit Committee has assessed are available on the Companys website www.
the effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach taken to the reappointment of the external auditors, and information on the length of tenure of the current audit firm and when a tender was last conducted: and an explanation of how the Groups auditors' objectivity and independence are safeguarded when providing non-audit services.
Meetings with senior management, internal audit and the external auditors, together with the regular circulation and review of Board papers and financial information, have enabled the Audit Committee to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
22 o o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE KEY MATTERS A summary of the key matters considered by the Audit Committee during the year are set out below: AGENDA ITEMS MARCH JULY OCTOBER 2015 2015 2015 FULL YEAR REPORT INTERIM REPORT Full year report Interim report - KPMG Audit Committee paper summarising the results from the year end external audit - - KPMG Audit Committee paper summarising the results from the interim review - - KPMG Management Letter on control observations - - Effectiveness of external auditor - - Independence of KPMG - INTERNAL AUDIT Findings of internal audit reviews - - Key tax risks and approach - Risk management - POLICIES Impairment policy review - Terms of reference of the Audit Committee - - Whistle blowing - - Non-audit services provided by KPMG - Employment of former KPMG staff - - Non-audit spend - OTHER MATTERS Materiality - Resourcing Succession planning - - Cyber Risk Review Post investment appraisal stores - - Supply Chain Review - - Stock Analysis - Foreign Currency Risk - Social Media Policy Review - - FRC review of external audit items - - The main areas of judgement and estimation are set out in the accounting policies on pages 72 to 77.
23 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o Precio Exquisitidesa o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE SIGNIFICANT ISSUES stores within each region and confirming that managements The Audit Committee received and reviewed reports assessment was in line with the Audit Committees from management and the external auditors setting out the understanding of the maturity of the brand in each location.
significant issues in relation to the financial statements for The auditors explained to the Audit Committee the work they the period which related to the carrying value of inventory had conducted during the year.
On the basis of the audit work, and the carrying value of retail fixed assets being leasehold the auditors reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that improvements.
were material in the context of the financial statements as a These issues were discussed and challenged with whole: and in the view of the Audit Committee this supports management during the period.
They were also discussed the appropriateness the Companys methodology.
with the auditors at the time the Audit Committee reviewed and agreed the auditors group audit plan, when the auditors 3 Misstatements reviewed the half year interim financial statements in October Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that they 2015, and also at the conclusion of the audit of the financial were not aware of any material misstatements or immaterial statements for the period.
misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular presentation.
The auditors reported to the Audit Committee the 1 Carrying value of inventory misstatements that had been found in the course of their work and Inventory is carried in the financial statements at the no material amounts remain unadjusted.
The Audit Committee lower of cost and net realisable value.
The fashion industry confirms that it is satisfied that the auditors has fulfilled its can be extremely volatile with consumer demand changing responsibilities with diligence and professional scepticism.
significantly based on current trends.
As a result there is a risk After reviewing and challenging the presentations and that the cost of inventory exceeds its net realisable value.
reports from management and consulting where necessary with Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that the auditors, the Audit Committee is satisfied that the financial there have been no significant changes to the approach used statements appropriately address the critical judgements and to estimate inventory provisions from the prior year.
The key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and the auditors explained to the Audit Committee the work they had disclosures.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied that the conducted during the year.
On the basis of their audit work, significant assumptions used for determining the value of assets the auditors reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged were material in the context of the financial statements as a and are sufficiently robust.
whole: and in the view of the Audit Committee this supports the appropriateness the Companys methodology.
4 Future IFRS developments The Audit Committee has discussed future accounting 2 Carrying value of retail fixed assets developments likely to affect the presentation of the Groups being leasehold improvements financial statements.
The Group has invested a significant amount of capital outside the UK in its retail store portfolio.
Given the relative TAX GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK immaturity of the brand outside the UK, the payback period is The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring all typically longer and it is not uncommon for new stores to make significant tax matters including the Groups tax policy.
The losses in their starting phase.
The Audit Committee challenged Finance Director is responsible for implementing the Groups management on the evidence on which they based their tax policy with the assistance of the senior finance and Group assessment as to when an indicator exists for an impairment tax team.
This is reviewed on an ongoing basis as part of the review over the carrying value of leasehold improvements.
In addition, the Groups tax This included an assessment of performance of retail stores to status is reported regularly to the Board and Audit Committee.
the original business case, comparing relative performance of 25 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee has formally reviewed the The Audit Committee oversees the Companys relationship independence of the auditors during the review year.
KPMG with the external auditors and makes recommendations to LLP has provided a letter to the Audit Committee confirming the Board in relation to their appointment, reappointment that it remains independent within the meaning of the and removal and approves their remuneration and terms of regulations on this matter and in accordance with professional engagement.
The Board and Audit Committee also review and ethical standards.
the independence of the external auditors and consider To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the engagement of the external auditors to supply the Audit Committee reviewed: non-audit services.
the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan The Company has adopted a formal policy on the supply and variations from it: of non-audit services by the external auditors.
They may only reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the provide such services on condition that such advice does course of the audit: and not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical feedback from the businesses evaluating the performance guidance.
The Audit Committee Chairmans pre-approval of each assigned audit team.
is required before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out by that policy and the aggregate The FRCs Audit Quality Review team reviewed the spend is also reviewed by the Audit Committee on an annual KPMG LLP audit files for the prior period and shared with basis.
Details of the auditors' remuneration for audit and nonthe Audit Committee the two observations in connection with audit fees are disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements for audit process.
The Audit Committee has discussed the review the period.
teams feedback with KPMG and is satisfied that the auditors The Audit Committee recognises that the independence have addressed the two observations noted in relation to the of the auditors is an essential part of the audit framework audit process for the current year audit.
and the assurance that it provides.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee held meetings with the external monitors any non-audit work that is undertaken by the external auditors before each Audit Committee meeting to review key auditors to ensure that their objectivity and independence is issues within their scope of interest and responsibility.
In the prior period the ratio of non-audit its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, the fees to audit fee exceeded 1:1.
This was considered by the Audit Audit Committee reviewed: Committee and was not considered to represent a threat to the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and the auditors' independence as the majority of the non-audit scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors fees related to a one-off project to provide forensic services.
engagement letter for the forthcoming year: The Audit Committee regularly reviews the level of non-audit the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming fees and, as noted above, pre-approval for any such services year: is required from the Audit Committee Chairman above set the external auditors fee proposal: monetary thresholds.
In approving any non-audit services the the major issues that arose during the course of the audit Audit Committee considers any threats, perceived or actual, and their resolution: to the auditors' independence taking regard of the guidance key accounting and audit judgements: contained in the relevant ethical standards.
the level of errors identified during the audit: and recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letters and the adequacy of managements response.
26 o Soxus Stylis o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Consideration is also given by the Audit Committee to KPMG have expressed their willingness to continue in the need to include the risk of the withdrawal of the external office as auditors.
The Audit Committee has recommended to auditors from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed as the Companys The Audit Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditors for the 2016 17 financial period.
external auditors each year and assesses their independence on an ongoing basis.
KPMG have been the Companys external WHISTLE BLOWING auditors since 2001, with a competitive audit tender process last The Audit Committee is responsible for the review of carried out in 2012.
The Audit Committee notes the final Order the Companys procedures for responding to the allegations from the Competition & Markets Authority and the new EU of whistle blowers and the arrangements by which staff may, Regulation on audit rotation and will ensure compliance with in confidence, raise concerns about possible financial these requirements in considering when next to tender the reporting irregularities.
The requirements of the Code and the Order and EU Regulation notwithstanding, the Audit Committee will Ronald Stewart continue to monitor the effectiveness of the external auditors Chairman of the Audit Committee on an annual basis and will tender in accordance with the new EU regulations.
