o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT BOARD INDEPENDENCE The Board considers Non-Executive Directors Ronald STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE Stewart, Anne Sheinfield and Andrew Jennings to be During the period the Company was subject to the UK independent for the purposes of the Code.
Corporate Governance Code dated September 2014 the Code.
The Code was issued by the Financial Reporting BOARD OPERATION Council and is available for review on the Financial Reporting The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It Councils website, https: www.
The Board considers all issues relating to the strategy, direction and future confirms that the Company has complied with the provisions development of the Group.
The Board has a schedule of matters set out in the Code throughout the year, except in respect of reserved to it for decision that is regularly updated.
These Code Provision C. 3.1 Audit Committee to have at least three include decisions on the Groups strategy, financial budgets, independent Non-Executive Directors.
An explanation of the major capital expenditure and transactions, appointment of reason for this departure from the Code is set out on page 22. territorial and product licence partners, store openings, dividend An explanation of how the Main Principles have been policy, Group bonus and risk profile.
The requirement for Board applied is set out on pages 56 to 58 and, in connection with approval on these matters is understood and communicated Directors remuneration, in the Directors Remuneration widely throughout the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors Report on pages 39 to 55. meet with the Chairman separately during the year.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman BOARD COMPOSITION present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Operational decision making, operational performance Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer & and the formulation of strategic proposals to the Board are Group Finance Director and three independent Non-Executive controlled by the Groups Executive Committee, which is Directors.
Biographies of these Directors appear on page 38. comprised of the Board of Directors of No Ordinary Designer The Board is of the view that its current membership provides Label Limited the Groups operating subsidiary together an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and with relevant heads of department as required.
The Executive knowledge, which enables it to discharge its responsibilities Committee meets regularly throughout the year.
This is reinforced by the findings of the external Board evaluation see page 20.
TED BAKER PLC NOMINATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE REMUNERATION RISK COMMITTEE COMMITTEE AUDIT IT STEERING COMMITTEE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 19 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE To enable the Board to function effectively and for the BOARD EVALUATION Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely During the period, an externally facilitated evaluation of access is provided to all relevant information.
A comprehensive the Board and Committees effectiveness was undertaken by Board pack is prepared and circulated in advance of each Board Sean OHare of Boardroom Dialogue Limited, an independent meeting.
Board members regularly input into the level and external adviser with no other connection to the Company.
quality of information provided, and request specific Board The Board evaluation considered the balance of skills, papers on additional agenda items.
There is an agreed procedure experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on for Directors to take independent professional advice, if the Board, its diversity, including gender, how the Board works necessary, at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the together as a unit, and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
access every Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Board Evaluation consisted of: The Company maintains an appropriate level of Director interviews with each of the members of the Board, the and Officer liability insurance cover in place and, through the Company Secretary and selected members of the Articles of Association and Directors terms of appointment, Executive Committee: has agreed to indemnify the Directors against certain liabilities observation of a Board meeting: and to third parties and costs and expenses incurred as a result of a review of the Board and Committee agendas, minutes holding office as a Director.
Save for such indemnity provisions and papers for the previous twelve months.
in the Companys Articles of Association and in the Directors terms of appointment which were in force throughout The Board evaluation concluded that the Board was the period and are in force as at the date of these financial working well, considering the right topics on a timely basis statements, there are no qualifying third-party indemnity and with an appropriate level of challenge.
The Non-Executive provisions in force.
Directors were conscientious and prepared thoroughly for The Code requires that the Board provides a fair, balanced Board and Committee meetings and the management team and understandable assessment of the Companys position and received value from the Non-Executive Directors contributions.
prospects in its external reporting.
The Directors were responsible Areas of focus for the Non-Executive Directors continue to be for the preparation and approval of the Annual Report and enhancing Board engagement with the Executive Committee Accounts and consider them, taken as a whole, to be fair, and building on existing long-term succession planning balanced and understandable and believe that this provides the throughout the Group.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE The table below details the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the period and the attendance record of each Director.
BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION MEETINGS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD 10 3 2 - Raymond Kelvin 10 N A N A N A Lindsay Page 10 N A N A N A David Bernstein 10 3 2 - Anne Sheinfield 10 N A 2 - Ronald Stewart 10 3 2 - Andrew Jennings 9 2 2 N A 20 o o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS The Group attaches considerable importance to the The Companys Articles of Association take account effectiveness of its communication with its shareholders.
The of certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to full report and accounts are sent to all shareholders and further Directors conflicts of interest.
These provisions permit the copies are distributed to others with potential interest in the Board to consider, and if thought fit, to authorise situations Groups performance.
where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly Led by the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board has and the Finance Director, the Group seeks to build on a mutual adopted procedures for the approval of such conflicts.
The understanding of objectives between the Company and its Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operating effectively institutional shareholders by making general presentations and the procedures are being followed.
after the interim and preliminary results: meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and gather feedback: and communicating regularly throughout the year via its investor relations programme.
All shareholders have access to these presentations, as well as to the Annual Report and Accounts and to other information about the Company, through the website at www.
Shareholders may also attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to ask questions.
Non-Executive Directors are kept informed of the views of shareholders by the Executive Directors and are provided with independent feedback from investor meetings.
21 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o
