o DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT DIVERSITY We strongly support the principle of boardroom diversity, Dear Shareholder, of which gender is one element.
Anne Sheinfield has been on The role of the Nomination Committee is to establish a the Board since June 2010 and the Board is very pleased to framework for the process of appointment of new Directors benefit from her valuable contribution.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible Boardroom diversity, including gender, is an important for overseeing succession planning requirements, including the consideration when assessing a candidates ability to contribute identification and assessment of potential Board candidates to, and complement the abilities of, a balanced Board.
and making recommendations to the Board for its approval.
Our Board appointments will always be made on merit against objective criteria, and this will continue to be the NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP priority rather than aiming to achieve an externally prescribed During the year the Nomination Committee was chaired by diversity target.
David Bernstein and its other members were Ronald Stewart, As noted in the People Report on page 34 to 35, the Anne Sheinfield and Andrew Jennings.
The composition of continued expansion of the Company means that Ted Bakers the Nomination Committee during the year complied with workforce is becoming increasingly diverse.
continue to support the development and progression of all The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating employees, with the aim of maintaining and achieving diversity candidates for appointment to the Board.
throughout all levels of the organisation.
All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the time commitment considered necessary to enable them to fulfill David Bernstein CBE their responsibilities prior to appointment.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available on the Companys website www.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD No appointments to the Board were made in the period.
The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Directors for the time being to retire each year, and for each Director to retire from office at least once every three years.
However, in line with Provision B.
7.1 of the Code, the Board has determined that all Directors must retire and stand for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
In the year ahead, the Nomination Committee will meet to hold general discussions on succession planning and to facilitate long-term planning in respect of executive and nonexecutive skills required around the Board table, including the timing and the process for recruitment and the transition plan for existing Board members.
29 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o
