NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION The Nomination Committee comprises Michael Pavia Chairman of the Committee, Julian Schild and Charles Wigoder and therefore has a majority of independent non-executive directors in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provision B.
The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new non-executive and executive directors, including making recommendations as to the composition of the Board generally and the balance between executive and non-executive directors: giving consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives: reviewing on an annual basis the time required from non-executive directors and assessing whether the non-executive directors are spending enough time to fulfil their duties: reviewing the re-election by shareholders of directors under the annual re-election provisions of the Code: and evaluating any matters relating to the continuation in office of any director including the suspension or termination of service of an executive director.
THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2016 The Committee met informally on a number of occasions during the year and Committee matters were also discussed formally as part of certain full Board meetings.
Recruitment of new independent non-executive directors The Committees principal activity during the year related to the identification and evaluation of two new independent non-executive directors.
A number of potential candidates were identified by the Board and a shortlist was produced based on the background, experience and capability of the individuals concerned.
A small number of candidates were invited to meet the non-executive directors and Executive Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, to evaluate their interest in the opportunity.
From the potential candidates approached, Beatrice Hollond was identified as an extremely strong candidate by the Committee and displayed a keen interest in joining the Board.
Ms Hollond is a member of the Board of Brown Advisory, a non-executive director of M&G Limited, a non-executive director at Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust, Chairman at Millbank Investment Managers, Chairman at Keystone Investment Trust and non-executive director and Chairman of Audit Committee at Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust.
She spent 16 years at Credit Suisse Asset Management in Global Fixed Income and began her career as an equity analyst at Morgan Grenfell Asset Management.
The members of the Committee formally interviewed Ms Hollond, benchmarking her experience and capabilities against a list of key attributes previously agreed by the Board.
The Committees conclusions were reported to the Board and her appointment was put forward for approval.
Ms Hollonds extensive experience of fund management, and therefore knowledge of the requirements of institutional shareholders, was particularly attractive to the Committee.
It is expected that Ms Hollond will formally join the Board in September 2016 and will become a member of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
46 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements With due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, and the wide network of business contacts possessed by Committee members, the use of an external search consultancy and open advertising was not considered necessary in the appointment of Ms Hollond.
Mindful of the Code requirement to ensure a progressive refreshing of the Board, the Committee is in the process of seeking a further independent non-executive director to join the Board.
It is currently expected that this new independent non-executive director will have experience in the retail insurance industry in order to provide guidance as the Company extends its future range of services to Members in this area.
In the light of this specific requirement, an external search consultancy, Korn Ferry, has been instructed to draw up a shortlist of potential candidates for consideration by the Committee.
The Committee therefore expects to be in a position to announce the appointment of a further new non-executive director in the near future.
Korn Ferry does not have any other connection with the Company.
Other activities Other discussions concerning Committee matters during the year principally related to the appropriateness of the composition of the Board given the Companys operations and medium-term strategic objectives, and succession planning for senior management.
Aside from the position in relation to independent nonexecutive directors set out above, no other changes to the Board were deemed necessary during the year.
The Committees position in relation to diversity and the Code requirement to set out any measurable objectives that exist in this regard is included in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 42 of this document.
Michael Pavia Chairman of the Nomination Committee On behalf of the Board 13 June 2016 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 47
