Corporate governance report John Allan 1.
Leadership Non-executive Chairman Chairmans introduction During the past year, there has been a renewed focus on corporate governance at Tesco and the Board has spent a significant proportion of its time examining and strengthening our processes during this turnaround period for the Group.
Having a solid governance framework is key to rebuilding trust and transparency.
I am therefore pleased to confirm that the Company was fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code this year.
A central pillar of our governance framework is our Schedule of Group Delegated Authorities In this section as it sets out who is authorised to take decisions on which matters.
The Board reviewed this This corporate governance report is key schedule during the year, scrutinising the authority granted to different individuals across intended to provide shareholders with the business.
We are pleased to have created a more comprehensive document that better aclear and comprehensive view of reflects our structure and operations and that has contributed to a culture of improved theGroups governance arrangements adherence to Group policies.
This has been both atop-down and bottom-up exercise to andhow it has operated during the year.
ensure that the right people are making the right decisions at Tesco.
We have structured the report as follows toreflect the structure of the UK Corporate We have also taken additional action to promote a positive culture and tackle unfavourable Governance Code: business practices.
Our new Code of Business Conduct was relaunched in March 2015, topromote responsible and ethical behaviours at all levels of our business.
We have also p. 30 Leadership fundamentally changed the way wework with our suppliers in order to further build trusted p. 38 Effectiveness relationships with these key stakeholders for our business.
The report earlier this year p. 42 Relations with our investors fromthe Grocery Code Adjudicator GCA examining Tescos compliance with the GCA p. 43 Relations with our social and environmental Code ofPractice set out conclusions about our historic business practices that coincided stakeholders with theresults of our own independent investigations.
We are encouraged that our latest p. 44 Accountability Supplier Viewpoint measure of how suppliers view their relationship with Tesco recognises p. 48 Remuneration the positive impact of the changes we have made.
The results show a significant improvement year-on-year, increasing from 51% to 68% in the UK and from 58% to 70% for the Group as a whole.
As previously disclosed, the commercial income issue identified in September Compliance with the UK Corporate 2014 resulted in a Serious Fraud Office regulatory inquiry.
The inquiry is ongoing, and we GovernanceCode continue to co-operate fully with it.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Code sets out principles and specific provisions on how acompany should be directed and controlled to Our initiatives contribute to our aim of improving trust and transparency by ensuring that achieve standards of good corporate governance.
all colleagues understand their role and duties and by creating a culture where individuals feel empowered to speak up and voice concerns.
The 2014 version of the Code applies to the Company for the year ended 27 February 2016.
Succession planning was a key priority for the Board even before the end of the previous Acopy of the Code is available at www.
financial year when a number of Directors retired.
This year, the Nominations Committee The Board considers that the Company scheduled additional meetings in order to progress the selection of three new Non-executive complied infull with the Code during the year.
Conscious that following changes to our Board composition, female representation The following sections provide an explanation among our Directors had dropped below the 2014 AGM level of 30%, we were keen to attract of how it has applied the principles in the Code high-calibre candidates who could provide balance to our Board.
We are delighted with the and good governance principles of accountability, transparency, probity and focus on the sustainable capabilities of our chosen candidates and are pleased that we now have 27% female success oftheCompany over the longer term.
representation at Board level, which exceeds the 25% level recommended by Lord Davies in 2011.
In addition, we continue to seek to improve opportunities for talented women to progress throughout the Company and particularly to the ranks of senior and executive management.
We recognise that providing opportunities for all of our colleagues to develop provides access to a broader talent pool that will support our strategic focus on regaining competitiveness.
Having a solid Further information on the appointment process for our new Non-executive Directors can be foundon page 40 and details of diversity at Tesco are set out on page 36. governance framework The following pages set out our governance processes at Tesco and explain how we have is key to rebuilding trust achieved some of the changes we have made.
We continue to strive towards excellent and transparency.
governance at Tesco and to rebuild trust and transparency across our business.
John Allan Non-executive Chairman 30 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
