54 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE THE GROUPS BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY GOVERNANCE CODE The Groups business model and strategy are summarised on pages 6 This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the to 21 of the Strategic report.
UKCorporate Governance Code the Code and the extent to which the Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
It is the Boards view that for the year ended 30 September 2016 the Company fully complied with the provisions applicable to this reporting period.
The Code can be read in full at www.
OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE BOARD Chairman, CEO, CFO and sixIndependent Non-Executive Directors.
A Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board sets out matters that can only be decided by the Board.
Terms of Reference for each Committee set out matters the Board has authorised the Committee to deal with.
A Delegated Authority Matrix sets out levels of authority delegated by the Board to the Finance & Administration Committee and senior leaders within the business inrespect of the decision making required for day-to-day operation of the business.
AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE HEALTH, SAFETY REMUNERATION COMMITTEE & ENVIRONMENTAL Four Independent Chairman, CEO, and four Independent Five Independent COMMITTEE Non-Executive Directors.
CEO and three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE CEO and CFO.
CEO, CFO, and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and also attended by senior managers from Group Finance, Investor Relations, To facilitate swift and efficient operational management decisions for andCorporate Communications.
thebusiness in relation to day-to-day financing and administrative matters.
Aschedule of decisions taken by the Committee is reported The Committee meets regularly during the year to consider the Groups to each Board Meeting.
disclosure obligations and to review results announcements prior to release.
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Functional and segment leaders.
Meets on a monthly basis to review execution of strategy initiatives: cascades information to the Thomas Cook Leadership Council TCLC and monitors risk in the business.
The Schedule of Matters reserved, the Terms of Reference of the Boards Committees and the Division of Responsibilities between theChairman and the CEO, are available on the Groups website at www.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 55 ROLE OF THE BOARD BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group and The Board, its Committees and Management continued to focus on for ensuring that there is a framework of effective controls, which delivering the Companys strategy.
The Board held an offsite strategy enables risk to be assessed and managed.
At each Board meeting, the day in May which included in-depth discussion of strategic matters CEO presents a comprehensive update on the progress of the Groups and a number of workshops with senior management.
In addition, strategy and business issues arising across the Group, and the CFO the Board also held a number of strategy deep-dive sessions presents a detailed analysis of the financial performance, both at throughout the year which each focused on a different element Group and segment level.
In March 2016, the Board held its meeting in Paris, at the head office of our French business, where it met with local management and RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD colleagues and gained deeper insight into this area of the business.
The Board visited a number of the Companys retail stores in Paris The Board is specifically responsible for: where Board members met with colleagues who work in-store guiding the Groups strategic aims, leading to its approval of the to discuss their experiences and challenges.
The Board were Groups strategy and its budgetary and business plans: provided with a demonstration of various in-store technologies and experienced the booking process from a customer perspective approval of significant investments and capital expenditure: in France.
approval of annual, half-year, and quarterly results announcements, The Board dedicated half a day to people, where it spent time accounting policies and, subject to Shareholder approval, the considering a Group-wide talent review which examined talent, appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: succession, retention risk and diversity in respect of the top 100 roles approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment of interim in the business.
and the recommendation of final dividends: In September 2016, the Board held its meeting in one of the Groups key destinations, Antalya, Turkey.
The Board visited a number of the changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of any securities: Groups concept and partner hotels.
The Board met with the local destination management team, hotel owners, hotel management and establishing and maintaining the Groups risk appetite, system of key individuals from the Turkish travel industry and local community.
internal control, governance and approval authorities: The visit enabled the Board to gain a deeper understanding of this destination and the Thomas Cook customer experience in Turkey.
monitoring executive performance and succession planning: and Other important items on the Board agenda included the reviewing standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
approval of the three-year business plan: the impact of Brexit on the business: and risk mitigation matters, including agreeing theBoardsrisk appetite.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 56 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE The table below shows the attendance record of the individual Directors at scheduled Board meetings and relevant Committee meetings.
In addition to the scheduled meetings set out below, the Directors also attended several unscheduled Board and Committee meetings, in respect of business matters that the Chairman and CEO decided should be considered by the Board or relevant Committee prior to the next scheduled meeting.
Attendance at these meetings was high.
The Chairman and each Independent Non-Executive Director have provided assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can dedicate sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Health, Safety& Audit Remuneration Environmental Nominations Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Frank Meysman 6 6 5 5 Peter Fankhauser 6 6 4 4 5 5 Michael Healy 6 6 Dawn Airey 6 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 Annet Aris 6 6 5 5 4 4 Emre Berkin 6 6 5 5 4 4 4 5 Warren Tucker 6 6 5 5 5 5 4 5 Martine Verluyten 6 6 5 5 5 5 Lesley Knox 4 4 2 3 3 3 Lesley Knox was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2016 and was appointed to the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 24 March 2016.
BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD INDUCTION AND TRAINING As at 22 November 2016, the Board was made up of nine members A tailored induction programme is provided to each new Director which comprised the Chairman, two Executive Directors and six on appointment.
Inductions typically include: provision of a Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details of all comprehensive induction pack: meetings with other Board members Directors can be found on pages 52 and 53 and on the Groups and senior management across a wide variety of geographies: corporate website at www.
visits to the Companys business operations: and, receipt of presentations and briefings on the Companys business and other THE CHAIRMAN relevant topics.
Individual induction requirements are monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the Group General Counsel and Frank Meysman was the Chairman throughout the year.
ofthe Chairman and CEO are separate and distinct.
There is a Boardapproved Division of Responsibilities, which clearly sets out in writing During the year, Lesley Knox was appointed as an Independent Nontheir respective responsibilities.
This document can be found on the Executive Director and undertook an induction programme during Groups corporate website at www.
which she met with many members of senior management and visited a large number of the Companys operations, including the UK THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Airlines in Manchester, the Northern Europe Tour Operator business in Dawn Airey was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 October Stockholm, the Scandinavian Airline in Copenhagen, and the UK Tour 2015.
The Senior Independent Director is available to Shareholders Operator business in Peterborough.
She also has visits to Condor, our should they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the German Airline in Frankfurt and the German Tour Operator business normal channels involving the Executive Directors or the Chairman.
The programme consisted of formal and informal meetings, one-to-one and group meetings, tours, briefings CHANGES TO THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES and presentations.
Lesley Knox was appointed to the Board as Independent At Board meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 March 2016, and was the Directors receive updates and presentations on developments appointed to the Remuneration and Audit Committees with effect and changes to the business, and to the legislative and regulatory from 24 March 2016. environments.
The Board received an update on the new Market Abuse regime and, through its Committees, various other governance developments and changes in legislation, as set out in the Committee reports.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 57 DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY The Nominations Committee and the Board considered the The Group Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board specified in the Code and determined that each was independent.
on corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there is They also considered the independence of Directors whose three-year a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making.
terms were renewed during the year, before approving the renewal All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group ofthese terms.
Company Secretariat and through them, have access to independent professional advice in respect of their duties, at the Companys DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST expense.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees.
The Board has a set of principles for managing conflicts and has agreed a process to identify and authorise potential conflicts where During the year, Alice Marsden held the position of Group General appropriate.
The Nominations Committee reviews any potential Counsel and Company Secretary.
Biographical details can be found conflicts, as and when they arise, and makes a recommendation to onpage 53. the Board as to whether the potential conflict should be authorised.
The Nominations Committee reviews all authorised conflicts at least every six months.
It also reviews the interests of candidates prior to making recommendations to the Board for the appointment of new Directors.
This process was followed throughout the year to 30 September 2016.
RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election and re-election by Shareholders.
At the AGM held in February 2016, each of the Directors in post was submitted for re-election and successfully re-elected.
The Board has agreed that the Directors will continue to be subject to annual re-election in the future.
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term, subject to annual re-election by Shareholders, and rigorous review by the Nominations Committee: each Non-Executive Director can serve up to a maximum of three such terms.
OPERATION OF THE BOARD Throughout the year, a fully encrypted electronic portal system was operated, which enabled Board and Committee papers to be delivered securely to the Directors.
This enabled fast and secure distribution of information that was accessed using electronic tablets.
The CEO kept the Board updated on matters affecting the business between meetings.
The papers in respect of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Health, Safety & Environmental Committees were circulated to all the Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Committee membership.
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted third-party indemnities, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director and the Group Company Secretary, which were in force during the financial year and up to the date of signing this report.
The Company also maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 58 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Separately, the Non-Executive Directors, under the leadership of BOARD EVALUATION the Senior Independent Director and with input from the Executive The Board recognises the benefit of a thorough Board and Committee Directors, conducted an evaluation of the Chairman.
The outputs from evaluation process, leading to action to improve its effectiveness.
that evaluation were debated by the Board in the absence of the Following the comprehensive independent external Board evaluation Chairman and feedback was given to him by the Senior Independent carried out in 2014, the Chairman felt that an internal evaluation Director, and reported to the Board at its September meeting.
would be appropriate in assessing the Boards effectiveness The individual performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed for 2016.
The evaluation was conducted by the Group General separately by the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee.
Counsel and Company Secretary and took the form of in-depth one-to-one interviews.
Some key outputs from the 2015 and 2016 evaluations are set out below.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary prepared a report of the outcome of the interviews and presented this to the Board at their September 2016 meeting.
Action points have been agreed, which will be monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, and progress reported regularly to the Board.
Outputs from 2015 evaluation Progress The Board should spend further time on succession planning and A second Group-wide talent and succession review was carried out in talentreview.
2016 using a consistent methodology and approach to the 2015 review.
Theresults were presented to the July Board meeting.
The topic is now an annual agenda item.
Following the development of the Non-Executive Director induction The Chairman and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary reviewed process, the ongoing training of Non-Executive Directors should be the Non-Executive Director induction programme and made a number reviewed to ensure all Non-Executive Directors continue to have the of improvements which were implemented in respect of Lesley Knoxs necessary knowledge that they need to fulfil their role.
induction as detailed on page 56.
A number of training presentations wereheld during the year and the Chairman and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary continue to keep training needs under review.
Outputs from 2016 evaluation Action The format and quality of Board papers should continue to be developed The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary will provide guidance to shift the emphasis from reporting past events to highlighting important tosenior management on the structure and content of Boardpapers.
matters that require the Boards leadership.
The Board may benefit in the future from recruiting an additional The Nominations Committee Chairman may engage external search Non-Executive Director with direct customer experience in the retail consultants to look into potential candidates if the decision is taken to industry and or relevant travel industry experience.
doso by the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee should be given more time on the agenda.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary will put together an annual agenda plan for the Nominations Committee for the approval of the Chairman and will monitor the time allocated on agendas for Nominations Committee matters.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written Terms of Reference which are available at www.
Some of their keys responsibilities are: monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and quarterly results statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: review the Companys internal financial controls and internal control CHAIRMAN and risk management systems: Martine Verluyten monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: establish and oversee the Companys relationship with its external OTHER MEMBERS auditors, including the monitoring of their independence: and Warren Tucker, Dawn Airey, Lesley Knox monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE All members of the Committee are Independent ACTIVITIES Non-Executive Directors.
FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT Martine Verluyten and Warren Tucker are considered by JUDGEMENT AREAS theBoardto have recent and relevant financial experience, The Committee monitored the integrity of the annual, half-year results as required by the Code and satisfy the requirements for and quarterly results statements, including a review of the significant competence in accounting and or auditing under the Disclosure financial reporting judgements contained in them.
In May and Guidance and Transparency Rules.
November, the Committee reviewed a comprehensive paper prepared DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES by the Director of Financial Reporting, which set out the Groups on pages 52 to 53. accounting policies and basis of preparation.
The Audit Committee also reviewed a paper prepared by the external auditors, which MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: included significant reporting and accounting matters.
The Committee The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors, Peter pays particular attention to matters that it considers to be important Fankhauser CEO, Michael Healy CFO, Lee Bradley Chief Risk by virtue of their impact on the Group results and remuneration Officer, Alice Marsden Group General Counsel and Company of senior management, or the level of complexity, judgement or Secretary, Bill Scott Director of Financial Reporting andPwC.
estimation in their application in preparation of the Groups financial At the end of two of its meetings during the year, the Committee statements.
The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee and also those Non-Executive Directors who are not on the are shown in the table overleaf.
Committee met with the Chief Risk Officer and PwC in the absence of Management.
SCHEDULED MEETINGS Five FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 60 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Significant issues in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee considered by the Committee Going Concern and Viability: Consideration of the going concern and The Committee reviewed Managements assessment of going concern longer-term viability through assessment of on going solvency of liquidity.
with consideration of forecast cash flows, including sensitivity to trading and expenditure plans and potential mitigating actions.
The Committee also considered the availability of financing facilities to the Group and concluded that Managements assessment of longer-term viability and theirrecommendation to prepare accounts on a going concern basis were both appropriate.
Accounting for aircraft leases and maintenance provisions: The Committee reviewed the methodology and key assumptions used by Significant fixed assets for aircraft and provisions for maintenance and Management in accounting for aircraft leases and maintenance provisions contractual end of lease obligations are held on the balance sheet.
and concluded that the treatment was appropriate.
There is an inherent level of estimation included in the calculation of the maintenance provisions which are based upon forecast aircraft usage and maintenance costs.
Furthermore, there is judgement needed to determine whether leases are operating or financing in nature.
Further complexity arises in respect of aircraft where contractual terms have been amended, including the extension of lease terms.
Separately disclosed items: The Group has an established policy of The Committee considered the presentation of the Group financial separately disclosing items that are either exceptional or not reflective statements and the appropriateness of the presentation of separately ofthe underlying performance of the Group.
disclosed items, in particular items relating to NUMO and certain non-cash finance items.
The Committee reviewed the nature of items identified Separately disclosed items are not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the and concurred with Management that the treatment was even-handed, European Union and therefore judgement is required by the Directors to consistent across years and appropriately presented movements on items identify such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as which have an effect over a number of years.
Consideration was also given separately disclosed is important to maintain comparability of reporting to the quality of earnings within underlying results.
Carrying Value of Goodwill and Deferred Tax Assets: The Group The Committee reviewed Managements process for testing goodwill and holds significant goodwill and deferred tax assets on the balance deferred tax assets for potential impairment.
Determining the carrying value of these assets is dependent on the key assumptions: principally cash flow forecasts, growth rates and judgements about the future results of the business.
discount rates for goodwill and taxable profit forecasts for deferred tax assets.
Recoverability of Hotel Prepayments: Significant prepayments to The Committee considered the appropriateness of assumptions on hoteliers are held on the year-end balance sheet.
futurebookings at the hotels and contingency plans regarding certain agedprepayments.
The recoverability of these balances requires the Directors judgement including consideration of current booking levels, historical trend data, future forecast bookings, the credit-worthiness of the hoteliers and the impact of external factors.
Treasury operations and use of derivative instruments: The Group The Committee reviewed the Groups accounting for derivative instruments uses a number of hedging structures including options to manage its and Managements hedge documentation and use of market observable exposure to adverse movements in fuel prices and foreign exchange rates.
data in valuing the Groups derivatives.
The Committee is satisfied that the fair value of derivatives and the hedge reserve is presented in accordance The accounting for derivatives is complex.
Defined benefit pension valuation: The Group has defined benefit The Committee reviewed and challenged the estimates used by pension plans with significant net post-retirement liabilities.
The valuation Management in valuing pension liabilities, principally the discount rate of the pension liabilities requires significant levels of judgement and used.
This included review of the external actuarial valuation report.
technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Changes in a number of the key assumptions including salary increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of the liability, particularly for the Airlines Germany pension schemes which are unfunded.
There is also an element of judgement in the measurement of fair value ofpension assets due to the nature of financial investments.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 61 INTERNAL CONTROL, RISK MANAGEMENT Internal Control ANDINTERNAL AUDIT The Groups internal control framework is managed by Group Finance, Risk Management and is regularly reviewed for effectiveness by the Committee and Internal Audit.
The framework includes 121 Risk and Control The Audit Committee considers risk exposure against the risk Matrices, which complement the Group Risk Dashboard by focusing appetite of the Group, as set by the Board, by profiling key risks on the mitigation of financial risks at a lower, transactional level.
to the business in terms of their potential impact and likelihood of Approximately 2,000 controls are documented and reported on occurrence, after consideration of mitigating and controlling actions quarterly by Management, as a key mechanism to mitigate the risk that are in place.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the of financial misstatement and fraud.
Management of each Thomas key strategic risks and received updates from the Chief Risk Officer in Cook reporting entity has provided controls self-certification for the respect of the Group Risk Dashboard, highlighting any changes in the financial year through this process.
These activities fed into the annual Internal Audit Plan, which enables a risk-based approach to be adopted as During the year, activities have focused on broadening the scope part of the on going Internal Audit and assurance programme.
of the framework, for example, to incorporate more formalised tax compliance controls, and on updating the framework for business The Committee was supported in its work by the Risk Matters Group, changes.
Various cross-functional Committees have been introduced which is comprised of relevant representatives of senior management to facilitate the continued effectiveness of the control framework: and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and meets quarterly to these include the Fraud Forum and the IT Controls Committee.
Management also continues to refine the framework based on Particular areas of focus for the Committee during the year independent reviews from Internal Audit.
included: information security: data protection: and cyber security.
These activities, together with the regular reports from the external The Committee received presentations from senior management auditors, have supported the Audit Committee in providing its advice on these issues and received regular updates on progress of the to the Board in respect of the effectiveness of internal controls see Groups Cyber Security Programme.
The Committee also reviewed section headed Risk management and internal control on page 65. updates on the Groups Business Continuity Management policy and governance framework.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Committee received regular updates in respect of the Groups Independence and Effectiveness Legal Compliance Programme which covered matters including: data PwC were appointed the Companys external auditor in 2008 and protection: anti-bribery and corruption: competition law: the Package during that time have complied with the partner rotation requirement Travel Directive: hotel and accommodation contracting: and the Inset out in the Ethical Standards for auditors.
In last years annual Destination Services Compliance Programme.
report the Committee reported its intention to conduct an audit The Committee reviewed reports of all cases lodged with Expolink, tender process in respect of the audit of FY17 onwards.
the Groups whistleblowing line, and the outcomes of any At its meeting in November 2015 the Committee considered the resulting investigations.
independence and effectiveness of PwC as external auditor in Internal Audit respect of FY15.
The review included consideration of comprehensive papers from both Management and the external auditor and meetings The Committee continued to oversee and support development of with Management in the absence of the external auditor.
the in-house Internal Audit function.
The Committee challenged and approved the proposed Internal Audit Plan, and throughout the year The effectiveness review considered matters such as: the monitored the allocation of Internal Audit resource and delivery competence of the key senior members of the team and their against the Internal Audit Plan.
The Committee closely monitored the understanding of the business and its environment: the planning appointment of a new Group Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee process: effectiveness in identifying key risks: technical expertise: considered an effectiveness review of the Internal Audit function, timeliness and communication with both Management and which measured performance against the Quality Assessment criteria the Committee.
provided by the Institute of Internal Auditors and concluded it remains Following the review, the Committee concluded that PwC had satisfied with work of the Internal Audit function.
provided an effective and independent audit in respect of FY15 and During the year the Committee considered the findings of a number recommended their re-appointment as external auditor for FY16, ofreviews carried out by the Internal Audit function.
which was approved by Shareholders at the Companys 2016 AGM.
The Committee further concluded that PwC should be invited to participate in the tender process.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 62 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Tender Non-audit Fees During the year the Committee conducted a competitive tender The Company has a Non-audit Fee Policy the Policy in place to process for the audit of FY17 onwards.
Three audit firms including the ensure that the provision of non-audit services by the external incumbent auditor PwC were invited to tender by the Committee.
auditor does not impair their independence or objectivity.
During the year the Committee amended the Policy in preparation THE PROCESS: for stricter rules being brought in by the EU Audit Regulation.
The Chair of the Committee and Warren Tucker being the two members The Policy, which is appended as a schedule to the Audit Committees of the Committee with relevant financial experience met with partners Terms of Reference, is published on the Groups website at of each of the firms to gain insight into their work and discuss the www.
The amended Policy states that requirements of the Committee.
theexternal auditor should not be engaged in respect of services blacklisted in the FRCs Ethical Standard 2016.
Any other material The tendering firms conducted a fact finding exercise to gain greater non-audit work must be authorised in advance by the Committee, understanding of the Companys business which included meetings unless the engagement is urgent, in which case the CFO can agree withmembers of the finance team and other senior managers, the work with the Committee Chair and report to the next Committee andaccess to other useful material through a data room.
The details of all non-audit work if any is reported to the Committee on a six-monthly basis.
Each firm prepared a formal written proposal which was provided Fees for non-audit services during the year totalled 603,254 totheAudit Committee for consideration.
representing 19% of the fees paid to the external auditor further information about non-audit fees can be found in Note 6 to the The proposed Audit Partners and key members of the audit teams of financial statements.
Taking into consideration that 212,677 of each of the tendering firms attended a dedicated Audit Committee this fee was in respect of the review of the Companys half-year meeting where they presented to the Committee and answered results, for which the Companys external auditor must be used, the questions in respect of their proposals.
Committee considered the level of fees to be acceptable and did not consider it posed any risk to auditor independence.
The Committee considered the proposals and recommended the Planning appointment of two firms to the Board expressing preference for Ernst& Young LLP.
The Committee felt that the breadth and depth At its meeting in May 2016 the Committee considered and approved oftheexperience of the proposed team along with the proposed the external audit plan for the audit of the Group for FY16.
The auditing approach would best suit the needs of the Group.
Committee considered the proposed audit scope, approach and the incorporation of insights gained from the audit tender process.
The Board approved the Committees preferred firm for recommendation MARTINE VERLUYTEN to Shareholders.
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 22 November 2016 The Company will seek Shareholder approval of the appointment of Ernst& Young LLP atthe Companys 2017 AGM.
The Committee will oversee handover and induction arrangements toensure a successful transition.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order in respect of the financial year under review.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 63 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board or its Committees.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to the Board, as well as Board balance and composition.
The Committee ensures that there is clarity in respect of the role description and capabilities required for such appointments.
The Committee is also responsible CHAIRMAN for reviewing, at least every six months, or more frequently if Frank Meysman required, the Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board in respect of authorising such matters.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available at OTHER MEMBERS Emre Berkin, Peter Fankhauser, Warren Tucker, Martine Verluyten www.
com or from the Group General Counsel andCompany Secretary at the registered office.
ACTIVITIES COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE A majority of the members of the Committee are The main issue considered by the Committee during the year was the .
Dawn Airey was appointed appointment of Lesley Knox as a new Non-Executive Director in March to the Committee on 21 November 2016.
The Committee instructed executive search firm Egon Zehnder, who do not have any connection to the Company and are a signatory DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of Executive Search Firms, to compile on pages 52 to 53. a gender balanced long list of candidates for the role.
The Committee concluded that Lesleys wealth of international and business MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: experience, along with the experience she had gained through holding The other Non-Executive Directors, the CFO and Alice Marsden various Non-Executive positions on the boards of a range of listed Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
companies, including her membership and chairmanship of a number of Remuneration Committees, made her the ideal candidate to bolster SCHEDULED MEETINGS the capabilities and effectiveness of the Board.
Five The Committee also considered: the extension of Emre Berkin, Dawn Airey and Warren Tuckers appointment terms for a further three years: succession planning of Executive and Non-Executive Directors: re-appointment of Directors before making a recommendation totheBoard regarding their re-election at the 2016 AGM: and Directors potential conflicts of interests and independence.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS POLICY Appointments are made on merit, in line with the Boards current and future requirements, and reflect the UK listing and international activity of the Group.
The Board also recognises the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
The appointment during the course of the year was in line with this policy and has reinforced the diverse composition of the Board.
The diversity of the Board is illustrated on page 52.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies report entitled Women on Boards.
The Boards gender diversity at 44% female is in excess of Lord Davies target of 33%.
The Chairman is a member of the 30% Club, which has the aim of promoting the achievement of 30% women on FTSE 100 Boards.
A copy of the Groups Board Appointments Policy can be found on the Groups website at www.
FRANK MEYSMAN CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 22 November 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 64 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups business.
It is also responsible for the review and oversight of compliance with relevant legislation and regulation relating to health, safety and the environment across the Group.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available at CHAIRMAN www.
com or from the Group General Counsel and Emre Berkin Company Secretary at the registered office.
ACTIVITIES OTHER MEMBERS During the year the Committee continued to place customer safety Dawn Airey, Annet Aris and Peter Fankhauser at the top of its agenda.
The Committee carefully monitored the COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Companys progress in respect of implementing the recommendations A majority of the members of the Committee are of the Justin King review relating to Health and Safety and provided .
guidance to Management in respect of any challenges arising.
The Committee considered fuel safety and approved an updated DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES Group-wide Gas Safety Policy and Group Customer Welfare Policy.
Time was also spent looking at the way in which the Group obtains and assesses information about Health and Safety standards within MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: accommodation through Supplier Self Information Documents.
The other Non-Executive Directors, Michael Healy CFO, Lee The Committee received regular updates on the activities and Bradley Chief Risk Officer, Peter Welsh Group Head of Health, performance of the Companys third-party Health and Safety audit Safety & Security, Steve Solomon Director, Group Aviation supplier SGS.
Safety, Compliance and Security, Alice Macandrew Group Communications Director and Alice Marsden Group General In respect of the Groups Airline business, the Committee received Counsel and Company Secretary.
regular updates on aviation safety, compliance and security from the Director of Group Aviation Safety Oversight with particular focus SCHEDULED MEETINGS on airport security and the impact of terrorism on aviation security.
Four The Committee oversaw a streamlining and harmonisation of aviation safety matters throughout the Group through the creation of the Airlines Safety and Compliance Review Board which will report on aviation safety matters to the Committee going forward.
The Committee supported a review of the Groups activities and strategy in respect of Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR, which involved exercises to benchmark the Groups activities against the wider tourism industry and designing a new reporting structure for sustainability data.
The Committee also spent time considering the Companys carbon reporting and animal welfare policies.
More information about the Group CSR activities can be found on pages 26 to 29.
Regular updates in respect of government affairs, including UK Foreign Office travel advice and safety regulation, were provided to the Committee, as well as an update on the legal duties of Directors under Health & Safety legislation.
EMRE BERKIN CHAIRMAN OF THE HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE 22 November 2016 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In line with the authority given at its 2008 AGM, the Company uses its website and email as the primary means of communication with its Shareholders.
This arrangement provides significant benefits for SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION Shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information ANDENGAGEMENT and reduced environmental impact and cost.
Shareholders may still The Board promotes open communication with Shareholders.
opt to receive their communications in a paper format.
The Companys This is formalised within the framework of an ongoing investor corporate website www.
com contains relations programme conducted by the CEO, the CFO and the information for Shareholders, including share price information Investor Relations Team.
The programme includes the presentation andnews releases.
of preliminary and half-year results which can be accessed on www.
com and a large number of meetings with RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL existing Shareholders and potential investors throughout the year.
The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining an The Company makes every effort to ascertain investor perceptions effective system of internal control and risk management that is ofthe Company and regular reports of investor and analyst feedback appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature of the Groups are provided to the Board.
activities, and complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the summer, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee During the year, the Group has strengthened the Enterprise Risk and conducted a comprehensive engagement exercise with a large Audit Function to ensure it continues to further enhance the Groups number of the Companys institutional Shareholders and governance risk management capability thereby continuing to develop the internal bodies to understand concerns raised in respect of remuneration control environment.
at the Companys 2016 AGM, and to consult on proposed changes to The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks the Companys Remuneration Policy.
The Chair of the Remuneration facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business Committee provided regular feedback to the Board and Remuneration model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This is fully described Committee on the outcome of these discussions.
The views in the Risk Management section on pages 46 to 49. expressed by Shareholders were carefully considered when making changes to the Remuneration Policy which will be presented to The Groups internal control and risk management systems are Shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Further information in respect of designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to this consultation can be found in the Chair of the Remuneration achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, but Committees statement, on page 68. not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These systems have been in place for the year under review and up The Chairman also met with a number of Shareholders to discuss to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board corporate governance matters more broadly.
has approved the framework and the standards implemented.
Dawn Airey held the position of Senior Independent Director throughout the year, providing an additional channel through REVIEW OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL whichShareholders can engage with the Board if they so wish.
During the year the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system In respect of debt investors, the Company maintains regular of internal control.
The Board monitors the internal control processes dialogue with key relationship banks which includes semi-annual on an ongoing basis, including financial, operational and compliance meetings with presentations from the Executive Management controls, under the auspices of the Enterprise Risk and Audit Team.
During theyear, it also held update and review meetings function.
Regular reports on control issues are presented to and with Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch, the Companys credit discussed with the Audit Committee and there is a follow up process rating agencies.
The Company hosts a dedicated conference call for in place to ensure audit recommendations are fully implemented bondholders on a semi-annual basis and during the year the Group by Management.
This work is also complemented, supported and Treasurer also engaged with Bondholders both as a group, and, on a challenged by the controls assurance work carried out independently one-to-one basis, at several investment-bank sponsored conferences.
by the external auditors, PwC.
The Board has noted ongoing progress Additionally, the Board responded to ad-hoc requests for information and active focus in the internal control processes during this year.
and all Shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM.
Shareholders are The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal given the opportunity to lodge their votes by way of proxy and or to control, can confirm that necessary actions continue to be taken attend such meetings in person where they have the opportunity to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from to ask questions of the Board, including the chairs of the Board that review.
Committees, vote by way of a poll and meet informally with the Directors to discuss any issues they may wish to raise.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 66 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Code of Conduct also includes guidance to employees about GOING CONCERN their responsibility to report problems and issues that come to Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed their attention and the alternative ways of raising such issues in connection with the viability statement on page 47, the Directors in escalating order: line management: HR: and the Trustline see considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of Whistleblowing below.
accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The Code of Conduct is issued to all employees in paper copy and is INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT IN also available on the Groups intranet and website.
In addition, the RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS Group General Counsel and Company Secretary is available for advice The Group has a thorough assurance process in place in respect of on any matter relating to the Code of Conduct.
the preparation, verification and approval of periodic financial reports.
To ensure the progress made is fully sustainable and the Code This process includes: of Conduct remains embedded across the organisation.
All new the involvement of qualified, professional employees with an employees receive training on the Code of Conduct as part of their appropriate level of experience both in Group Finance and Induction programme.
An updated and refreshed Code of Conduct and throughout the business : complementary e-learning programme, that all employees will need to formal sign-offs from appropriate business segment Managing complete, will be rolled out in 2017.
Directors and Finance Directors: comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from key WHISTLEBLOWING internal Group functions: As mentioned above, the Code of Conduct includes guidance to a transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information to the employees about their responsibility to report problems and issues external auditors.
Engagement of a professional and experienced that come to their attention and one of the methods to do so is by firm of external auditors: way of an independently run whistleblowing helpline called Trustline.
oversight by the Groups Audit Committee, involving amongst Details of the Trustline are published in the Code of Conduct booklet other duties : and also on the Groups intranet site.
Significant issues brought to a detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which Managements attention through the Trustline are investigated and have been discussed by Management: reported to the Audit Committee.
review and, where appropriate, challenge on matters including: the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES policies and practices during the year: INRESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE significant adjustments resulting from an external audit: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND the Companys statement on internal control systems, prior to THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS endorsement by the Board: and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the going concern assumption.
the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements The above process, and the review by the Audit Committee of a in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law comprehensive note that sets out the details of the preparation, requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each internal verification and approval process for the Annual Report & financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Annual Report & Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
CODE OF CONDUCT In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Groups Code of Conduct sets out the Groups Values, Leadership select suitable accounting policies and then apply Behaviours and Ways of Working how we expect our employees to them consistently: conduct themselves in their everyday working life.
It covers areas make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable such as: behaviour towards our customers and our people: health and prudent: and and safety: reputation management: sustainable operation: supplier state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted relationships: anti-bribery: conflicts of interest: competition law: by the European Union.
risk management and controls: fraud, theft and false accounting: IT security: share dealing and our prohibition of political donations.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 67 The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys unaware: and that he she has taken all steps that he she ought to transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the have taken as a Director to make him her aware of any relevant audit financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable them to information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration of that information.
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RELATED DISCLOSURES The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Disclosures in relation to the share capital of the Company, including the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the the Companys major Shareholders are given in the Other disclosures prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing DIVIDEND the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ The Board has proposed a final dividend of 0.5 pence per share, from legislation in other jurisdictions.
representing Thomas Cooks first distribution to Shareholders for Each of the Directors who were in office at the date of this report more than five years.
This reflects the significant progress achieved so far in transforming the Group, and the confidence of the Board in andwhose names and functions are listed on pages 52 to 53, confirmthat, to the best of their knowledge: the Groups future.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Our policy is to target a payout ratio of between 20% and 30% of accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair reported net profit after exceptional items each year.
Given the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the unusual levels of market disruption seen in 2016, and the impact this Group: and has had on earnings, the Board has chosen to propose a dividend the Strategic and Directors report contained on pages 4 to 97 in respect of FY16 which represents a payout ratio in excess of includes a fair review of the development and performance of the the target.
business and the position of the Group, together with a description In the future, however, and subject to market conditions, we expect of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
our dividend payout ratio to be in line with our policy.
As previously stated, in view of the seasonality of the Groups profit profile, it is not FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE our intention to pay interim dividends for the foreseeable future.
The Directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and The ex-dividend date will be 9 March 2017 and, subject to Shareholder provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the final dividend of 0.5 Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
pence will be paid on 5 April 2017 to Shareholders on the register at In making this confirmation, the Directors took into account their the close of business on 10 March 2017. knowledge of the business, which is kept up-to-date with regular reports, updates and business reviews circulated prior to and discussed at each Board meeting, and supplemented by a variety of written reports, verbal updates and presentations including the training and strategy support presentations detailed on page 56 given at Board and Committee meetings as well as a regular flow of information about the business between meetings.
The Directors then took into account the thorough preparation and verification process in respect of the Annual Report & Accounts, which included sufficient time for the Directors to review the Annual Report & Accounts and to feed in their comments to Management before approving the document.
