Report of the Audit Committee Role of the Committee The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls and to review reports thereon from the key third party service providers, to consider and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and to review the accounting policies and significant financial reporting judgements, and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
Representatives of the Managers internal audit and compliance departments may attend these committee meetings at the Committee Chairmans request.
Representatives of the Companys Auditor attend the Committee meetings at which the draft Interim and Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members without the presence of the representatives of the Manager.
Composition of the Committee The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the members of the Board.
It has been the Companys policy, to include all Directors on all committees.
This encourages unity, clear communication and prevents duplication of discussion between the Board and the Committee.
The Committee Chairman is Mr Watson.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be found on the Companys website, are available on request and will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
Activity during the year During the year the Committee met twice with all members at each meeting and considered the following: The Groups Internal Controls and consideration of the Reports thereon and Risk Map To review the Audit Planning Memorandum setting out the scope of the annual audit and key areas of focus The reports from the auditors concerning their audit of the Financial Statements of the Company and Consideration of Significant issues in relation to the Financial Statements The appropriateness of, and any changes to, the accounting policies of the Company, including the reasonableness of any judgements required by such policies The Viability Statement and consideration of the preparation of the Financial Statements on a Going Concern Basis The financial disclosures in the Financial Statements To consider the information presented in the Interim and Annual Reports to ensure that, taken as a whole, the Reports are fair, balanced and understandable and the information presented enables the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy The performance of the external auditors, audit fees and assessment of independence Consideration of the audit tender process and subsequently to review a report and recommendation from the representatives appointed to consider the proposals and attend the presentations from the tendering audit firms.
50 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee continued Internal controls and management of risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Internal Controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Key risks identified by the Auditors are considered by the Audit Committee to ensure that robust internal controls and monitoring procedures in respect of these are in place on an ongoing basis.
The Audit Committee received and considered reports on Internal Controls from the key service providers.
No areas of concern were highlighted.
The Companys Risk Map was considered to identify any new risks and whether any adjustments were required to existing risks, and the controls and mitigation measures in place in respect of these risks.
Significant Issues in relation to the Financial Statements The Committee has considered this report and financial statements and the Viability Statement on page 31.
The Committee considered the Auditors assessment of risk of material misstatement and reviewed the internal controls in place in respect of the key areas identified and the process by which the Board monitors each of the procedures to give the Committee comfort on these risks on an ongoing basis.
These risks are also highlighted in the Companys Risk Map.
Valuation of the Groups investments The Groups investments are priced for the daily NAV by BNP Paribas.
The quoted assets are priced by the Administrators Global Pricing Platform which uses independent external pricing sources.
The control process surrounding this is set out in the BNP Paribas AAF 01 06 Internal Controls Report and testing by the reporting accountant for the period reported to 31 December 2015 did not reveal any significant exceptions.
The quarterly control report to the Board from BNP Paribas covering the period up to 31 March 2016 had no issues to report.
The Companys Investment Property portfolio is valued every six months on an open market basis by a professional external independent valuer.
In addition the Manager estimates the NAV using an alternative pricing source on a daily basis as an independent check.
Existence and ownership of investments The Custodian, BNP Paribas, is responsible for the custody of the Companys investments.
Lists of investments held are reconciled to the Companys records on a regular basis and a report on controls, which is audited by BNP Paribas independent reporting accountants, is produced annually for consideration by the Manager and the Audit Committee.
In addition, the quarterly control report from BNP Paribas to the Board covers any custody issues.
The Depositarys responsibilities include the segregation and safekeeping of the Companys assets.
The Depositary reports quarterly to the AIFM and these reports are made available to the Board.
The Depositary presents to the board at least once a year.
The Depositary conducts safekeeping reviews as part of its monitoring and oversight responsibilities.
Calculation of Management and Performance Fees These are calculated independently of the Manager by the Administrator.
The calculations are reviewed by the Auditor as part of the Audit Engagement and specifically reported on to the Board in the Independent Auditors Report.
The Committee consider and approve any area of subjectivity or judgement relating to the calculations.
There has been nothing brought to the Committees attention in respect of the financial statements for the period ended 31 March 2016, which was material or significant or that the Committee felt should be brought to shareholders attention.
TR Property Investment Trust 51 Report of the Audit Committee continued Auditor assessment and independence Ernst & Young presented their Audit Plan for the year end at the interim Committee meeting and the Committee considered the audit process and fee proposal.
The Committee also reviewed Ernst & Youngs independence policies and procedures including quality assurance procedures, it was considered that these policies remained fit for purpose and the Board is satisfied that Ernst & Young remain independent.
Total fees payable to the Auditor for the year to 31 March 2016 were: 97,000 2015: 87,000.
The Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board with a view to ensuring that the external Auditor does not provide non-audit services that have the potential to impair or appear to impair the independence of their audit role.
The Committee does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity and independence.
The fees for non-audit services for the year to 31 March 2016 were: 5,000 2015: 5,000.
Full details of the Auditors fees are provided in note 6 to the accounts on page 69.
Following each audit, the Committee reviews the audit process and considers its effectiveness and the quality of the services provided to the Company.
The review following the completion of the 2016 Audit concluded that the Committee was satisfied with the Auditors effectiveness and performance.
Change of External Auditor Under the CMA Regulations which came into force on 1 January 2015 there are specific requirements for an audit tender process to be carried out every ten years and mandatory auditor rotation at least every twenty years.
The lead partner on the Ernst & Young audit team was due to change following the 2016 audit in accordance with existing FRC audit partner rotation guidance, and the Company had already stated that it would carry out a formal audit tender process during 2016 to consider the appointment of auditors for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The audit tender process was undertaken during the first quarter of 2016.
As Ernst & Young had already been in office for in excess of 20 years and therefore would be required to retire under the new legislation following the 2019 audit, it was agreed between Ernst & Young and the Audit Committee that they would not seek to take part in the tender process and consequently they will not seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Four firms were invited to tender.
Each firm was believed to offer extensive Investment Trust experience alongside the necessary property, accounting, tax and financial reporting and governance expertise.
Each firms credentials were assessed against a standard set of criteria.
The result of the tender was that, on the recommendation of the Committee, the Board has selected KPMG LLP.
Subject to approval at the Companys 2016 AGM, the appointment of KPMG as auditor will take effect for the Companys financial year ending 31 March 2017.
David Watson Chairman of the Audit Committee 13 June 2016 52 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE
