Report of the Nomination Committee Role of the Committee As reported in the last Annual Report and Accounts, the Board made the decision in March 2015 to put a Nomination Committee in place to ensure there was an appropriate level of focus on succession planning.
The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to review and make recommendations with regard to Board structure, size and composition, the balance of knowledge, experience, skill ranges and diversity and consider succession planning and tenure policy.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for reviewing the outcome of the board evaluation process.
The Nomination Committee meets at least on an annual basis, and more frequently as and when required.
The Nomination Committee met in January 2016 and met again in May 2016, following the year end.
Composition of the Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all Directors of the Company and is chaired by Ms Burton.
Activity during the year The Nomination Committees key focus during this year was succession planning ahead of the Chairmans retirement from the Board in July 2016.
Neither Ms Burton nor Mr Seaborn chaired, or were present at, the meeting which approved the succession of the Chairman.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, the Committee prepared a job specification, including the time commitment expected, in order to start the appointment process for a new Chairman.
The Committee carefully considered the candidates for the new Chairman, particularly focussing on the balance of skills, knowledge and experience currently on the Board.
After careful consideration, it was agreed that the appointment of Mr Seaborn as successor was the most appropriate appointment in order to ensure that the Board continued to operate effectively.
When considering future appointments of Directors the Board, acting as the Nomination Committee, will consider the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, including gender diversity of the Board and will also consider external consultants when shortlisting candidates.
Board Evaluation In order to review the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and of the individual Directors, the Board carried out an appraisal process.
This was implemented by way of a questionnaire and interviews with the Chairman.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and the Committees, areas for additional focus going forward, the contribution of individual Directors, as well as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
The Chairmans effectiveness was assessed by all other Board members and views fed back to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director confirm that the performance of each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to their role.
This includes extensive time for ad hoc communications throughout the year in addition to formal Board and Committee meetings.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, experience and length of service to ensure it operates effectively.
The performance of the Company is considered in detail at each Board meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, it is the intention of the Board to engage an external facilitator to assist with the performance evaluation every three years and the next external evaluation will be carried out for the year ended 31 March 2017.
46 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Report of the Nomination Committee continued Activity since the year end Since the year end the Nomination Committee has met to consider and approve the appointment of a successor to the SID following Mr Seaborns appointment as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Following discussion it was agreed that Mr Watson would become the SID with effect from the conclusion of their AGM, and would continue in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Board Appointment Process Appointment of New Directors The Committee annually reviews its size and structure of the Board.
Where a new appointment is required, the Committee will appoint external recruitment consultants to assist in the process.
Directors Training When a new Director is appointed, he she is offered training to suit their needs.
Directors are also provided with key information on the Companys activities on a regular basis, including regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
Letters of Appointment No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be on display at the AGM.
Caroline Burton Chairman of the Nomination Committee 13 June 2016 TR Property Investment Trust 47
