Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 Dear Shareholder, Nominations Committee highlights Role of the Committee A few words of introduction to summarise the work of the The Committees principal responsibility is to ensure that the Nominations Committee during the past year.
Compared with Board comprises individuals with the most appropriate balance only one meeting in 2015, the Nominations Committee held four of experience, skills and knowledge to help develop and support in 2016.
This heightened level of activity was for three reasons: the Company strategy.
In order to achieve this, the Committee requires procedures to be in place that enable the nomination, The search for a new Chief Financial Officer to replace selection and succession of the most capable directors and Tony Buffin, who was promoted to Chief Operating Officer, senior executives.
responsible for the Groups Toolstation and Plumbing and Heating businesses.
Following an extensive search, The Committee is also responsible for considering, and weannounced the appointment of Alan Williams as  to the Board on succession planning GroupCFO, joining the business on 3rd January 2017. for directors and other senior executives: in this sense the He was previously CFO of Greencore Group plc.
Alan has a Nominations Committee undertakes a broader role.
broad range of experience in both corporate and operational The Nominations Committee comprises all the Non-executive roles within large complex and global businesses.
He brings Directors and is chaired by me, other than when it is dealing with a strong background in leading strategic initiatives, mergers matters in relation to me or the chairmanship of the Company.
and acquisitions, integration and business transformation.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Group HR The continuing need to review the pipeline and development Director are invited to attend when appropriate.
of executive talent below the Board.
A number of transfers and The Committee operates under formal terms of reference new appointments to the executive leadership team were made which are available on our corporate website: during the year as a result of this review.
co. uk Finally, and most importantly, the need to prepare and put in place a process to plan for the medium term succession of Chairman and top management.
The previous process from 2011 to 2013, which led to the appointment of John Carter as Group CEO, was judged to have been executed smoothly and transparently, consistent both with best practice externally and also with the unique culture and values of the Company.
Wefully intend that the current process will be managed to thesame high standard.
100 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Activities in 2016 2017 objectives The Committee held four formal meetings during the year.
In 2017 we will continue to review succession plans and look Theprincipal matters discussed at the meetings were: further ahead to the future retirement of the current CEO.
The Non-executive Directors will also plan my own succession.
Current and future Board composition requirements in light ofthe evolving business strategy Board diversity Development planning for the Chief Financial Officer It is the Groups firm belief that having Executives and Appointment of a new CFO following the decision to promote Non-executives on the Board that are diverse in experience, the existing CFO to Chief Operating Officer nationality or gender provides us with different perspectives, which promotes a healthy culture with a good balance between Process for appointments challenge and support and minimises the risk of group-thinking.
This does not just make good commercial and business sense, The Committee guides the Board in regularly assessing whether but it is good for the Groups colleagues and its customers there is an appropriate balance of expertise and skills on the aswell.
A rigorous selection process precedes the appointment of all Directors by the Board, and their recommendation by the Job specifications, search processes and selection criteria are Nominations Committee, ensuring that appointments to the also focused on appointing candidates that meet the criteria for Board are made on merit and assessed against objective criteria.
the role and who offer different perspectives.
Therefore, diversity, including gender diversity, is actively considered, and will continue A description of how appointments are typically made to the to be so.
The Board is committed to appointing the best people Board is set out below and this was followed in connection with and ensuring all employees are able to develop their careers the recent appointment of Alan Williams to the Board as CFO.
within the Group regardless of their background, gender, age or The Committee oversees on behalf of the Board, and advises ethnicity and we therefore do not believe it is appropriate to set the Board on, the identification, assessment and selection targets in this area.
of candidates for appointment to the Board.
The process of The Group currently has two female Board directors 22% and appointment includes: three women on its operating executive 23%.
Further details of The preparation of a role description in light of existing and the Groups workforce diversity are set out in the Capturing the required capabilities for the role and the Board way things are done around here section on pages 45 to 49.
The engagement of independent recruitment consultants Robert Walker who have no other connection to the Company.
The Miles Chairman Partnership was used in the selection process for Alan Williams.
14 March 2017 The preparation of a long list of potential candidates which takes into account diversity considerations and the outcome of the Committees latest review of the composition and skill sets of the Board The selection of a shortlist of suitable candidates meeting the Committees criteria Interviews of those candidates by a selection of members of the Board Following selection of the proposed candidate, interviews with the remaining members of the Board and the taking up of detailed references 101
