Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 As Chairman of the Board, I am pleased once again to have the opportunity to report on our approach to corporate governance, and our key activities in this area during 2016.
UK Corporate Governance Code An internal evaluation of the Boards performance was conducted again this year, in a fully open and transparent In the year ended 31 December 2016 the Board was in full process.
The conclusions and recommended actions from the compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, review are summarised on page 65.
The Board was judged to with the exception of the part of Code provision E. 1.1 be performing well, and the key priority for 2017 is to recalibrate whichrequires that the senior independent director SID and reset the Groups strategy in anticipation of continued attendssufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders market uncertainty.
to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
I am pleased to report that Board attendance has improved, Our SID, Christopher Rogers, has not attended any meetings with as expected, during 2016 and we anticipate this will continue.
major shareholders during the year due to a lack of appetite from Following on from last years report, our initiative in having shareholders for such meetings.
I plan to invite Christopher individual non-executive directors including myself mentoring to join me at a selection of shareholder meetings in 2017. and adopting businesses within the Group on an ad-hoc basis A copy of the Code is available on the FRCs website, has now been reinvigorated and each Non-executive Director www.
uk has been allocated responsibility for key parts of the business.
Thisinitiative continues to work well.
Governance highlights As a Board, we encourage regular and frequent contact with The following pages detail how the Company has applied as wide a range of shareholders as possible.
From a business the principles and provisions of the Code over the past viewpoint, we plan to hold a capital markets day in 2017 in twelvemonths.
order to present the outcome of our strategic planning exercise.
From a governance viewpoint, the usual and regular meetings By way of introduction, I would make the following points: with investors will be held during the first quarter of 2017.
We now have a settled Board at Travis Perkins following The following pages summarise the Companys governance a number of new appointments in 2013 and 2014. practices by reference to the five main sections of the Code.
I am pleased to report that the Board is working well and providing both robust challenge and support to our executive leadership team.
The skills around the Board table represent a powerful combination of current and past, but relevant, experience and we are fortunate in having such a strong team.
62 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration 1.
Leadership I agree the agenda for meetings in conjunction with the ChiefExecutive and the Company Secretary & General Counsel.
Role of the Board Agendas are based on an annual plan, but also include topical The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the items and matters of particular interest or concern to the Board.
Company and is accountable to our shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and governed.
Key financial and other relevant information is circulated to the Principally this is achieved through: Directors outside of formal meetings.
I monitor the information provided to the Board both at and outside of meetings to ensure Setting the overall Group strategy it is sufficient, timely and clear.
Setting the policy on corporate governance Between Board meetings I maintain frequent direct contact Approval of expansion plans and major capital expenditure with the Executive Directors and keep the Non-executive Directors informed of material developments.
During the year Consideration of significant financial and operational matters I held a number of meetings with the Non-executive Directors and the Groups exposure to key risks without the Executive Directors being present.
Our governance framework establishes a clear division of I generally contact all the Non-executive Directors in advance responsibilities on the Board.
The Board has approved a written ofBoard meetings, to discuss the key issues under consideration.
statement of the division of key responsibilities between the In particular, I discuss the meeting papers with any Director who Chairman, and the Chief Executive and a statement of the role is unable to attend a meeting to obtain that Directors views which of the Senior Independent Director.
These are reviewed annually Ishare with the rest of the Board at the meeting.
At the meetings, and were last updated in December 2016. as Chairman, I ensure that each Director is able to make an The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it, which is effective contribution within an atmosphere of transparency and reviewed annually.
Revisions were made in December 2016 to reflect constructive debate.
latest best practice and the operations of the Group.
Theschedule of The Company typically sets its meeting dates 18 months prior matters reserved to the Board is available in the governance section to the start of the year and liaises closely with the Non-executive on ourcorporate website: www.
Directors to ensure as far as possible that clashes with external The Company maintains Directors & Officers insurance in appointments are avoided.
Directors are able to attend meetings respect of the risk of claims against Directors which is reviewed by video or telephone conference if there is an issue with location annually.
All Directors have direct access to the Company or travel.
Secretary & General Counsel and may take independent Four out of eight Directors had full attendance and average professional advice in the furtherance of their duties if required.
attendance for the Board and Committees combined was 96%.
Ruth Anderson missed the September Stay Safe Committee as Board meetings this had to be rescheduled at short notice.
Pete Redfern missed The Board held ten scheduled meetings in 2016.
Regular items the January Board meeting due to a prior arrangement and atBoard meetings included detailed updates on health and the June Nominations Committee due to the proximity of this safety, reports on progress towards strategic objectives, reviews meeting to the Taylor Wimpey results.
John Rogers missed the of the Companys financial position and performance against March plc Board and Nominations Committee due to Sainsburys KPIs.
Other topics considered included strategic reviews of bid for Home Retail Group plc and the November Audit business divisions, funding, capital expenditure, investor feedback, Committee due to BlackFriday.
During the year, the Board visited a number of operational sites and held a two-day strategymeeting.
plc Audit Nominations Remuneration Stay Safe Overall Board Committee Committee Committee Committee attendance % Number of meetings 10 5 4 7 3 Attendance: R. Anderson 10 5 4 - 2 95% A. Buffin 10 - - - - 100% J. Carter 10 - - - 3 100% C. McConville 10 5 4 7 - 100% P. Redfern 9 - 3 7 3 92% C. Rogers 10 5 3 - - 95% J. Rogers 9 4 3 7 - 88% R. Walker 10 - 4 7 3 100% Chairman did not attend meeting discussing the Charimans succession.
63 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Robert Walker did not attend the December Nominations details on our policy can be found in the section of the annual Committee meeting as this meeting was to consider the report entitled Capturing the way things are done around here Chairmans succession.
Christopher Rogers did not attend on pages 45 to 49. the December Nominations Committee meeting as this was Non-executive Directors are appointed for a period until the third scheduled at short notice.
Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment, at The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by the end of which the appointment may be renewed by mutual each Director during the year is detailed in the table on page 63. agreement.
It is the Boards policy that non-executive directors should generally serve for six years two three-year terms and Board committees that any term beyond this should be subject to a rigorous review.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, certain This review takes into account the need for progressive refreshing Board responsibilities are delegated to our Board Committees, of the Board, maintenance of a balance of skills and experience which play an important role in supporting the Board.
and the particular requirements of the Company at the time of TheBoard has four Committees: Audit, Nominations, the possible extension.
All committees operate Non-executive directors do not have a service contract, but each within defined terms of reference which are reviewed has received a letter of appointment.
These appointments expire annually and these are available on our corporate website on the following dates, and the length of service at that date is www.
Theminutes of committee also shown.
meetings are circulated to all the Directors.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the execution of Expiry Length of service the Groups strategy and the day-to-day management and Date at expiry date operation of the Groups business to the Chief Executive and Ruth Anderson May 2018 6 years 7 months Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and its members are listed on page 61.
Coline McConville May 2018 3 years 4 months Other executives are invited to attend Executive Committee meetings from time to time in relation to specific matters.
Peter Redfern May 2018 3 years 7 months The main purpose of the Executive Committee is to assist the Christopher Rogers May 2020 6 years 9 months Executive Directors in the performance of their duties in relation in particular to: John Rogers May 2018 3 years 7 months Strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets Robert Walker May 2018 8 years 8 months The monitoring of operational and financial performance All Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the The assessment and control of risk Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The time The prioritisation and allocation of resources commitment expected of each Director is set out in their letter of appointment.
The letters of appointment will be available for 2.
Effectiveness inspection at the AGM.
In the year ended 31 December 2016 the Board was made up Induction and development of six Non-executive Directors including myself as Chairman The Group has an induction process for new directors, which and two executive Directors.
Alan Williams joined as CFO on is facilitated by the Company Secretary & General Counsel.
3January 2017 bringing the Executive Directors on the Board Inparticular, this includes a programme of meetings with to three.
Christopher Rogers is the Senior Independent Director.
senior management in both operations and central functions, Thebiographies of the Board are listed on pages 58 to 60. andvisits to a range of branches and stores.
I ensure that all The composition of the Board is kept under regular review directors receive an appropriate induction on appointment and by the Nominations Committee and the Committee considers then subsequent development and training as required, taking that the Board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, into account the need to update their skills and their knowledge independence and knowledge to meet the needs of the business.
Appointment of directors The Board as a whole is also regularly provided with information Appointments of new directors are made by the Board on the on forthcoming legal and regulatory changes, corporate recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
I chair the governance developments and briefings on the key risks Nominations Committee and all other members are independent facing the Company, including those identified in the non-executive Directors.
The Committees report can be found Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 37 to 43. on page 100.
TheDirectors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense at any time.
The Companys policy is to recruit people of the highest calibre, with a breadth of skills and experience appropriate for the business.
The Group supports the principles of the Davies Review and the need for a diverse board, although it does not intend to commit to specific quotas.
The Group uses search firms who abide by the voluntary code of conduct which followed the Davies Review.
The Board diversity policy is summarised in the Nominations CommitteeReport on pages 100 to 101 and further 64 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Evaluation of Board performance 3.
Accountability Each year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its performance A review of the performance of the Groups businesses and the and the performance of its committees and individual directors.
financial position of the Group is included in the Strategic Report The Boards policy is to engage an external facilitator to assist this on pages 6 to 55.
The Board uses it to present a full assessment process every three years.
In 2007, 2011 and in 2014, the Boards of the Groups position and prospects, its business model, and its performance was reviewed externally by Egon Zehnder.
strategy for delivering that model.
The Directors responsibilities In 2016 the Board carried out an internal review of its for the financial statements are described on page 106. performance.
This entailed each Director and the Company Secretary & General Counsel completing a questionnaire about Going concern the performance of the Board and its Committees, followed After reviewing the Groups forecasts and risk assessments and by individual conversations with me.
I produced a report, making other enquiries, the Board has formed a judgement at summarising the outcome and recommendations which the the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a Board discussed and agreed an action plan for 2017. reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for The Non-executive Directors led by the Senior Independent the 12months from the date of signing this Annual Report & Director conducted a review of my own performance which Accounts.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going followed a similar process of questionnaires, individual meetings concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
with directors and a meeting of the Non-executives without my presence to discuss the findings.
The Non-executive In arriving at their opinion the Directors considered: Directors and I conducted the review of the performance of the The Groups cash flow forecasts and revenue projections ExecutiveDirectors.
Reasonably possible changes in trading performance There was a generally high level of satisfaction and positive feedback on relationships, freedom to contribute, transparency The committed facilities available to the Group and the and business and strategic priorities.
Members welcomed covenants thereon anincreased focus on strategic issues in 2016 and determined The Groups robust policy towards liquidity and cash flow that it had effectively managed the priorities from the last review.
management Anumber of key themes came through in the evaluation and these will be our focus in the coming year: The Group managements ability to successfully manage the principal risks and uncertainties outlined on pages 38 to 43 Articulation of the Groups future strategic direction during periods of uncertain economic outlook and challenging A greater focus on customer and digital issues and risk macro-economic conditions Further consideration of how to develop greater diversity Risk management and internal control of thinking on the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal More succinct board papers control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In the design of the system of internal control, consideration has been given In 2017 there will be an external evaluation of the Board.
to thesignificant risks to the business, the probability of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost effective Re-election of directors means of controlling them.
The threat posed by those risks, The Board considers on an annual basis the time commitments and any perceived change in that threat, is reviewed half yearly of each non-executive director and whether each remains by both the Executive Committee and the Board.
The system independent in character and judgement in light of any manages rather than eliminates risk and therefore can only relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect each provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Directors judgement.
None of the circumstances set out in Code misstatement or loss.
1.1 apply and the Board is satisfied that they allremain independent and have sufficient time available The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control to fulfil their duties.
is delegated to Executive Directors and senior management, but the Audit Committee discuss internal controls on a regular As a result of the Board evaluation exercise, as Chairman basis.
Thesystem of internal controls is reviewed in a process I am satisfied that there is presently a blend of skills and that accords with the FRC Guidance Risk Management, Internal experience which is appropriate for the Group and that each Control and Related Financial&BusinessReporting.
Director continues to show the necessary level of performance and commitment to the Group to justify their election or It is the responsibility of the Board to establish the risk framework re-election.
The other Directors, in the process led by the within which the Group operates.
The Board and the Executive Senior Independent Director, reached the same view with Committee review the risk register twice and the risk appetite at regard to my own re-election.
Members of the Audit Committee also receive reports of Internal Audit reviews.
If appropriate, these Therefore, all Directors will submit themselves for re-election reports include recommendations for improvement in controls atthe 2017 AGM.
or for the management of those risks.
Measures to integrate risk management processes into the Groups operations, to extend awareness of the importance of risk management and to ensure that recommended improvements are implemented, are regularly reviewed and refreshed.
65 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration As part of its viability review, the outcome of which is set out 5.
Relations with shareholders on page 35, the Board considered the principal risks and The Company encourages two-way communication with both uncertainties and mitigating factors set out on pages 38 to 43. its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has carried all enquiries received.
The Board receives regular updates on the out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system shareholder register and the views of shareholders, and each year of internal control and risk management, during the year and up the Company reviews its strategy for engaging with shareholders until the date of approval of this Annual Report.
to ensure that we are meeting their needs.
The Board also reviews reports discussing governance matters such as the Audit Committee and Auditors Good Governance Report published by the Institute of Directors The Board has established an Audit Committee consisting of and engages with these bodies to contribute to the debate and four independent Non-executive Directors.
Its key responsibilities development of good governance practices.
and a description of its work in 2016 are contained in its report, In 2016, the Executive Directors and I, either separately or together, whichis set out on pages 67 to 73. attended a large number of meetings with shareholders and analysts.
The Group held two briefings on results which were The Boards fair, balanced and understandable declaration attended by shareholders, equity analysts and debt holders.
Copies At the Board meeting during which the Groups results for the of these presentations are available from the investor relations year were presented by the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating section of the Groups website at www.
co. uk Officer and the ChiefFinancial Officer, the Board also considered whether the annual report and accounts, when taken as a whole, The Group makes the Senior Independent Director available present a fair, balanced and understandable overview of the as a direct contact for investors and shareholders, if they wish.
After: However, no meetings have taken place between the Companys investors and the Senior Independent Director due to lack of Hearing from the Executive Directors appetite for such meetings among the investors, and accordingly Receiving a report from the Chairman of the Audit Committee the Company has not complied with provision E. 1.1 of the Code on that Committees meeting to discuss the preparation and in this respect.
content of the year-end financial statements and the audit As Chairman, I aim to meet with major shareholders every year conducted upon them and I am always available to our shareholders if they have any Discussing the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts issues they wish to discuss.
In 2016, few shareholders chose to engage on governance matters on the basis that they had The Board concluded that the annual report and accounts are noconcerns.
fair, balanced and understandable and accordingly the Directors declaration to that effect can be found in the Statement of As well as sending the annual report & accounts to shareholders, Directors Responsibilities on page 106. during the year the Group published its interim results on its website and issued two trading updates.
Remuneration more than twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which all Directors are available for questions and a The Board has established a Remuneration Committee short business presentation takes place.
Each substantive issue consisting of three independent Non-executive Directors considered at the AGM is the subject of aseparate resolution.
Its responsibilities include setting the Companys I announce the numbers of proxy votes for and against each remuneration policy, approving the remuneration of resolution at the meeting, after the voting has taken place, and executives and reviewing the performance against targets these numbers are subsequently published on the Companys prior to determining the pay-outs on incentive arrangements.
Last year the majority of resolutions were passed with Theremuneration of the Non-executive Directors other than over 90% in favour with only short notice general meetings and the Chairman is determined by the Chairman and the Executive disapplication of pre-emption rights below this level at 89% and Directors.
The Remuneration Committee determines the 87% respectively.
No Director plays a part in the discussion abouthis or her own remuneration.
The AGM this year will be held on Wednesday 24 May at the Northampton Rugby Football Club in Northampton.
As always, The Committees key responsibilities and a description of its I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM, where I work in 2016 are contained in its report, which is set out on will be available to address concerns and take suggestions you pages 74 to 98. mayhave.
