Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 Dear Shareholder As a result of the change of external auditor for the 2015 year-end, the significant new systems programmes being As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present undertaken across the Group and changes in Internal Audit, the Audit Committees report for 2016.
This report describes how the Committee has also had a particular focus during 2016 on: the Committee has carried out its work during the year.
Overseeing the bedding in of new external audit processes There were no changes to the Committees membership in led by KPMG, who were appointed in 2015 2016.
It is a committee with considerable experience in financial and corporate governance matters as can be seen from the The enhancement of internal controls and the continued review biographies on pages 58 to 60. and development of financial controls The Committee has continued to play a key role within the Reviewing the Internal Audit function to ensure it has the Groups governance framework to support the Board in matters resources to operate effectively, including recruiting a new head delegated by it in respect of internal control, risk management, of Internal Audit to start in 2017 financial reporting and significant estimates and judgements I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any as well as overseeing the internal and external audit processes.
questions about the work of the Committee.
Ruth Anderson Chairman, Audit Committee 14 March 2017 67 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Role of the Audit Committee During the year, the Committee reviewed the: The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Groups systems of internal control, the effectiveness of controls and managements continuing controls Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company improvementprogramme and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting Groups key risks and the effectiveness of the risk judgements contained in them management framework Review the Companys internal financial controls and the Internal audit plan systems of internal control and risk management Groups tax strategy and compliance Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys Effectiveness of Internal Audit, the external auditors and internal audit function of the Committee itself Maintain an appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditors and to review the independence, objectivity In addition, there are a number of standing agenda items which and effectiveness of the audit process, taking account of the Committee considered at each of its meetings: relevant professional, regulatory and ethical guidance Internal Audit and risk reports The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually Whistleblowing, fraud and bribery and were updated in February 2016.
Progress on implementing recommendations arising from Committee membership and meeting attendance internal and external audit work Ruth Anderson chaired the Committee and Coline McConville, Non-audit fees Christopher Rogers and John Rogers were members of the As well as attending the Audit Committee meetings, the Committee throughout 2016.
Committee members met with operational and finance team All members are independent Non-executive Directors and, members during the year.
in the Boards view, all members have recent and relevant In carrying out these activities, the Committee places reliance on financial experience and expertise relevant to the Companys regular reports from management, Internal Audit and the external sector, gained through a variety of corporate and professional auditors.
The Committee is satisfied that it received sufficient, appointments as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code reliable and timely information from all three groups to enable it see biographies on pages 59 and 60. to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
The Deputy Company Secretary was Secretary to the The Committee Chairman updates the Board on key matters and Committeethroughout 2016. recommendations following each Audit Committee meeting.
The Committee held five formal meetings during 2016.
TheGroup Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Significant issues related to the financial statements Officer, Company Secretary & General Counsel, Group Financial The Audit Committee has assessed whether suitable accounting Controller, Head of Internal Audit and external auditors also policies have been adopted by the Group and whether attended the Committees meetings at the invitation of the management has made appropriate judgements and estimates.
Separate meetings with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external auditors without the presence of The table on pages 70 to 71 sets out the key judgement areas management were also held with the Committee Chairman and associated with the Groups financial statements for the yearwith the Committee, providing the opportunity for open dialogue.
ended 31December2016 that were considered by the Audit Committee.
The list is not a complete list of all accounting issues, Work of the Committee estimates and policies, just those the Audit Committee believes are the most significantones.
The Audit Committee adheres to an annual work plan in order to fully discharge its obligations.
This work plan is regularly In reaching its conclusions, set out in more detail below, reviewed by the Committee to ensure that it encompasses all theCommittee considered papers and explanations given matters the Committee needs to consider to fulfil its corporate by management, discussed each matter in detail, challenged .
assumptions and judgements made and sought clarification where necessary.
It reviewed and discussed any internal audit The Committee gives due consideration to the annual report and reports in respect of the matters under consideration and the financial statements and preliminary results announcements Committee also received a report from the external auditors on prepared by management and the associated press releases the work undertaken to arrive at the conclusions set out in their issued at the half-year and year-end.
In relation to financial audit report on page 110 and had the opportunity to discuss reporting, the Committee reviewed accounting policies and it with them in depth.
compliance with accounting standards, going concern and viability assumptions and significant financial reporting estimates and areas of judgement made during the preparation of the Groups interim and annual accounts.
68 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Elijah Crabtree, Gina Hayes CPS, Stafford Iuliana Ciulpan Travis Perkins, Staples Corner Travis Perkins Staples Corner 69 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Matter Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors Considered and Conclusion Reached Inventory To meet customer expectations the Group In 2015 management presented a detailed valuation carries a wide range of stock in over paper to the Committee that enabled it to review, 2,000locations.
Stock should be included question and understand how stock is controlled in the balance sheet at the lower of cost or and accounted for throughout the Group.
The determination of incorporated both qualitative and quantitative cost is complicated when rebate and fixed information such that the Committee could priced discount agreements are in place see understand how management determined that below.
Furthermore, determining the net stock was in existence, owned by the Group, valued realisable value of the wide range of products appropriately and recorded in completeness.
The held in many locations requires judgement to paper included how provisions were determined to beapplied.
ensure that stock was held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Management continued to regularly report on stock valuation and provisioning to the Committee and did so again at its meeting to discuss the year-end annual report and accounts.
The Committee concluded from the information it had received and its discussions with management and the Auditors that stock was fairly stated in the balance sheet.
Accounting for The terms of supplier agreements result in During the year the Committee discussed rebate income and a significant value of Supplier Income being reports presented by management about fixed price discounts received by the Group.
The calculation of the progress of improvements to systems, Supplier Income the value receivable and the value deferred controls and processes and in particular the into stock is complicated due to the number, implementation of a new rebate management nature and structure of the agreements in system.
It also received reports that enabled place.
However, only two agreements are not it to monitor Supplier Income collection rates co-terminous with the Groups accounting and compare them with the prior year and year end.
Furthermore, approximately 80% it discussed the Groups adherence to its of amounts due to the Group are received accounting policies and procedures.
during the course of the year.
Therefore the A summary update of the year-end position was key judgements relate to the calculation of the given to the Committee at the meeting held to total value of rebates and fixed price discounts consider the year-end results.
still to be received at the year-end and the value of fixed price discounts and rebates to be The Committee concluded that the controls set against the gross value of inventory in the over recognising and recovering Supplier balance sheet.
Income were appropriate and that the values included in the financial statements wereappropriate.
Exceptional items To maintain the integrity and comparability of the Management presented the Committee with income statement, items of income and expenditure a report that outlined the basis for establishing should be classed as exceptional and excluded from the exceptional charge and explained the underlying profits only in the specific circumstances judgements made in determining which items set out in the Groups accounting policy on page122.
The report included an analysis of cash and non-cash costs and As set out in note 5 to the financial statements, between costs incurred in 2016 and provisions the Group charged 56.6m of exceptional required at the balance sheet date.
reorganisation costs to the income statement in 2016, which were excluded when calculating The Committee questioned management on adjusted profits and earnings per share.
each category of exceptional item and, after taking into account managements explanations, Judgement is required to ensure the correct concluded that the classification of exceptional classification of income and expenditure items was appropriate and where necessary between underlying profits and exceptional provisions had been properly established.
items, Furthermore, where provisions are established for future settlement the Directors The Committee reviewed the disclosure of the need to be certain that the Group has a present exceptional items in the financial statements obligation as a result of a past event, that it can and concluded that it was appropriate.
estimate it accurately and that it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
70 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Matter Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors Considered and Conclusions Reached The carrying The Group balance sheet contains a significant The cash flow forecasts used for impairment value of goodwill value of goodwill and other intangible assets considerations are prepared from the strategic and otherintangibles associated with historical acquisitions.
business plans presented to, and approved by, the Board of Directors annually.
TheDirectors are required to determine annually whether those assets have suffered Management presented the Committee with any impairment.
They do so by comparing the papers setting out the results of the work done, present value of future cash flows for each cash the assumptions made and the conclusions generating unit with the carrying value of its reached.
They explained to the Committee how goodwill and other intangible assets.
the cash flow and discount rate calculations were prepared, the key assumptions and Thecalculations undertaken to help arrive at a judgements that were made, how sensitive conclusion incorporate a consideration of the those cash flows were to changes in the key risks associated with each cash generating unit assumptions and how a deterioration in the and are based upon forecasts of their long term performance of the Plumbing & Heating division future cash flows, which by their nature require and the Groups tile business and a weak judgement to be exercised and are subject to outlook for the individual businesss respective considerable uncertainty.
As a result of the markets had resulted in an impairment of annual review, at 31 December 2016, the Group 235.4m being made against the carrying recognised an impairment to goodwill and other value of goodwill and other intangible and intangible assets of 235.4m.
After reviewing managements papers, and obtaining further explanation where necessary the Committee concluded that management had taken a consistent, balanced and reasoned approach to preparing its calculations and that the judgements made were acceptable.
Furthermore, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate to impair the goodwill and other intangible assets associated with Plumbing & Heating division and the Groups tile business.
The Committee considered there was no indication of impairment in any other business.
71 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Internal audit Risk management and internal controls During 2016, Internal Audit continued to focus on reviewing The risk management process facilitates the identification financial controls in areas which the Audit Committee considered and control of risks.
Details of risks faced by the Group are higher risk as well as other areas of high risk included in the maintained in Group or business unit risk registers.
Those risks Group risk register or highlighted by Internal Audit evaluation or are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and also from consultation with the Executive Committee.
All core key by the Board to assess the potential impact and likelihood of financial control areas are audited every year including balance occurrence, after taking into account key controls and mitigating sheet control accounts, key internal financial control statements, factors.
Additional mitigating actions are identified where rebates and fixed price discounts.
necessary and agreed with relevant business owners.
Internal Audits review of the design and implementation of Risks are managed at a Group level or within the business units a new supplier rebate and fixed price discount management on an ongoing basis.
The principal risks and uncertainties are set system, that commenced in 2015, continued in 2016.
The use out on pages 37 to 43, together with information on how those of computer assisted audit techniques also increased in 2016, risks are mitigated.
focussing on major spend areas such as IT and fleet costs.
The Audit Committee monitors the key elements of the Audits were undertaken by both the in-house Internal Audit Companys internal control framework throughout the year and team with operational audit support and the Groups co-source has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Companys partners.
The allocation of work was dependent on the specialist risk management and internal controls.
The internal control skills required, particularly in areas such as IT, data protection, framework is intended to manage rather than eliminate the taxand treasury and the available resource.
The new head of risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only Internal Audit and Risk, who joined the Group in January 2017, provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material will review how best to ensure that the appropriate resources are misstatement or loss.
available for Internal Audits programme of work.
The Groups control framework has developed over many years The Committee reviewed the proposed audit approach, and there are a significant number of systems replacements coverage and allocation of resources and at each Committee underway.
The changes will improve control processes and meeting Internal Audit reports were considered.
ensure greater consistency across the control environment.
The Committee also continued to review the effective Management has also continued its programme of work to implementation of recommendations agreed by management, improve the control environment and this will continue in 2017. through an Internal Audit system which tracks activity on all TheAuditCommittee will monitor progress through the year.
This system provides a single point of Given the level of change the Audit Committee has tasked reference for tracking recommendations resulting from internal Internal Audit to take a more active role in reviewing audit reviews, and other control reviews performed by certain theseprogrammes.
third parties and so enables recommendations to be monitored in respect to both their age and implementation activity.
External auditor The trial to evaluate the effectiveness of moving branch and store KPMG LLP was appointed at the 2015 AGM following a compliance teams from central control to divisional management competitive tender exercise conducted during late 2014 and control was completed successfully for the Contracts division in early 2015.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Group the year.
Accordingly the Committee approved the rollout of the with regard to this appointment.
In accordance with current approach to the other divisions in the Group.
professional standards, the partner responsible for the audit will The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the change every 5 years.
The Company intends to put the external Internal Audit function.
audit out to tender every 10 years in the future.
Audit scope and effectiveness The scope of the external audit was presented by the external auditor to the Committee in advance of the year-end so the Committee had the opportunity to discuss the planned approach with them and management to ensure it was robust and complete.
The Committee considers the effectiveness of the external auditor on an ongoing basis during the year.
As part of the process the Committee received input from management who gave positive views of the effectiveness of the audit process and generally on the work of the external auditors.
72 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Independence and objectivity General principle One of the Committees responsibilities is to ensure compliance The process for approving all non-audit work provided by with the Boards policy in respect of services provided by, and the Groups auditor is overseen by the Committee in order to fees paid to, the external auditor.
There has been no material safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditor.
Prior to change to this policy, save to update it in November 2016 to approval, consideration is given to whether it is in the interests of comply with new EU regulation introducing a cap on non-audit the Company that the services are purchased from KPMG rather fees paid to the external auditor of 70% of the average of the than another supplier.
Where KPMG has been chosen, thisis as current and prior two years audit fee.
The policy is summarised a result of their detailed knowledge of the Groups business and below.
understanding of its industry as well as demonstrating that they have the necessary expertise and capability to undertake the work cost effectively.
Areas of work Permitted work Prohibited work Audit related Non-audit related Activities required Public reporting on Book-keeping and work related to the preparation of accounting by law or legislation circulars, prospectuses records to be undertaken by and listing particulars Financial system or system of internal control design theAuditors and similar documents orimplementation Reviews of interim Private reporting to Tax compliance and advisory services financial information sponsors and similar parties in connection Appraisal and valuation services Managed service reports with investment to housing associations Internal audit and legal services circulars, prospectuses and local authorities and similar documents Financing, capital structure and investment strategy services Reviews of internal Actuarial services controls and corporate governance Forensic work Recruitment services Secondment of staff to a supervisory or management position Provision of investment advice or broking services Value of work Reporting Non-audit fees payable to the external auditor in any particular The Chief Financial Officer reports to the Committee on year cannot exceed 70% of the average of the current and prior fees for non-audit services payable to the external auditor at two years audit fee.
Non-audit services provided by the external everymeeting.
auditor require approval as follows: As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during the year the Auditors 5,000 may be incurred without further approval were paid 900,000 2015: 520,000 for audit-related work, and 242,000 2015: 139,000 for non-audit work.
5,001 to 25,000 Chief Financial Officer The principal items of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors 25,000 Audit Committee relate to the interim review and the provision and maintenance Fees above 50,001 for new work must be subject to a of the Groups employee benefits system, MyPerks.
3.0m 2015: 0.8m of fees were paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work.
The total fees paid by the Group to Formal approval by the Committee is also required for any piece KPMG LLP in 2016 amount to less than 0.07% of KPMGs UK of non-audit work performed by the external auditor, regardless feeincome.
of value, if the aggregate level of fees for non-audit services exceeds or would exceed 100,000 in any financial year.
Assessment of the external auditor Having considered the external auditors performance, thelevel of non-audit fees paid to them and representations from the auditors about their internal independence processes the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor and recommended to the Board that KPMG be re-appointed by shareholders at the AGM on 24 May 2017.
