CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Committees role DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Committee reviews the composition The main task of the Nominations and balance of the Board and the senior Committee is to ensure that the Board executive team on a regular basis and has the necessary skills and expertise also ensures robust succession plans tosupport the Companys current and are in place for all Directors and senior future activities.
In addition, we continue executives.
When recruiting new to focus on the recruitment, development Executive or non-executive Directors, and retention of a diverse pipeline of theCommittee appoints external search managers who will occupy the most consultants to provide a list of possible senior positions in the Company in candidates, from which a shortlist is thefuture.
External consultants are The majority of the Committees instructed that diversity is one of the The majority of the timeduring the year was spent criteria that the Committee will take into Committees time during onCEOsuccession planning and consideration in their selection of the implementation, and various resulting the year was spent on CEO shortlist.
The Committees terms of changes to the Board, its Committees reference are reviewed annually and succession planning and and the Senior Management team.
areset out on the corporate website.
Asannounced in January 2017, the Committee recommended, and the Simon R Thompson Committees main responsibilities Board approved, the appointment of Nominations Committee Chairman The Committees main duties are: PaulMcDade as CEO following the AGM Reviewing the structure, size and on 26 April 2017.
At the same time, I will composition of the Board including step down as Chairman of the Board Meetings Committee members attended the skills, knowledge, experience and andAidan Heavey will succeed me as diversity of its members and making Chairman for a transition period of up to Simon R Thompson 5 5 recommendations to the Board with two years.
These changes represent the Steve Lucas 5 5 regard to any changes required: culmination of a process of succession Tutu Agyare 5 5 planning that has taken place over Identifying and nominating, for Board Anne Drinkwater 5 5 anumber of years, and Aidans approval, candidates to fill Board appointment as Chairman reflects Ann Grant 5 5 vacancies as and when they arise: theBoards belief that, owing to the Jeremy Wilson 5 5 Succession planning for Directors unique nature of Tullows business and andother senior executives: relationships across Africa, a phased transition of the leadership is appropriate.
Reviewing annually the time 2016 highlights commitment required of During the course of 2017, the Committee Agreeing a CEO and Chairman non-executive Directors: and will continue to review the structure, size succession plan and composition of the Board and the Making recommendations to the Ongoing succession planning for Senior Management team to ensure that Board regarding membership of Directors and senior executives they provide a balanced and diverse range theAudit, Remuneration and other of experience, knowledge and approaches Committees in consultation with to complement Paul in his new role.
Simon R Thompson Committee membership and meetings Chairman of the NominationsCommittee The composition of the Committee 7 February 2017 changed at the beginning of 2016 to include all non-executive Directors.
Simon Thompson was Chairman of theCommittee throughout the year.
Themembership and attendance of members at Committee meetings held in 2016 are shown in the adjacent table.
In addition to five formal meetings, the Committee held a number of informal discussions, telephone conference calls and interviews during the year.
74 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Committee activities of this review the Committee recommended the CEO succession planning and implementation Detailed appointment of Jeremy Wilson as Chairman of the planning for the identification of a successor to Aidan Heavey Nominations Committee: Mike Daly as Chairman of the started in 2015 and continued in 2016.
In consultation Ethics and Compliance Committee: and Tutu Agyare as withexecutive search consultants Egon Zehnder and other Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
All of these external advisers, the Committee developed a detailed role changes were approved by the Board and will occur with specification and benchmarked the previously identified effect from the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
internal candidate against a long and shortlist of external Board size and composition In 2016 following the candidates, ensuring that diversity aspirations were reflected retirement of Graham Martin the Board comprised eleven where possible.
At the conclusion of this process, the Directors: four Executive and seven non-executive Committee interviewed the preferred candidate and ultimately Directors, and included two women and one African.
made a recommendation to the Board that Paul McDade Subject to the approval of shareholders, following the beappointed as Chief Executive Officer.
There is no other various changes discussed above, the Board will consist of connection between Egon Zehnder and Tullow.
three Executive Directors, five non-executive Directors and Chairman succession planning and implementation Given the Chairman, and will include one woman and one African.
Aidan Heaveys unique role as founder of Tullow Oil and The Board continues to support the aspirations set out in CEOfor 31 years, the Committee was mindful of the need the 2011 Davies Report Women on Boards and will seek to tomaintain continuity and stability during the leadership redress the current imbalance in the representation of transition, particularly with respect to the extensive network women during the coming years.
of relationships that Aidan has developed, in Africa and Improving the diversity of the talent pipeline As part elsewhere, over the past three decades.
In discussion ofacontinuing effort to address the lack of gender and withAidan and Paul, as prospective CEO, the Committee national diversity in the Senior Management team see also recommended to the Board that a phased approach be Organisation & Culture section on pages 54 and 55 adopted, with Aidan assuming the role of non-executive diversity was included in the 2016 performance scorecard Chairman for a transitional period not exceeding two years.
and will be included in the 2017 corporate scorecard.
Adiversity The Committee believes that a phased transition is in the plan was developed and progress has been madeagainst best interests of shareholders, host governments and other that plan which has included: improving ourunderstanding key stakeholders, but fully recognises the UK Corporate and reporting of diversity within the company: an increased Governance Code implications of the proposed changes focus on diversity by the leadership team: and specific andthe need to engage with shareholders in order to actions to improve processes such asrecruitment, staff explain the rationale for this decision.
This process will development and performance management to enhance continue during the period leading up to the 2017 AGM, the diversity of the senior management pipeline.
The when the decision will be subject to shareholder approval.
Committee is confident that if the implementation of this CFO emergency planning In January 2017, Ian Springett plan continues with the same level of commitment observed commenced an extended leave of absence in order to in 2016, diversity, particularly at senior levels, will materially undergo treatment for a medical condition.
The Board improve over the coming years.
The Committee will report implemented the emergency plan, appointing Les Wood, progress against the plan.
Vice President Finance and Commercial, as interim CFO.
Committee evaluation The performances of the Board and Board and Senior Management succession planning its Committees were considered as part of the externally Aspart of its discussions about the potential leadership facilitated Board evaluation process.
transition, the Committee held preliminary discussions withPaul McDade about the future structure, size and composition of the Board and the Senior Management team, in order to ensure that they will provide a complementary balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
These discussions have continued during theearly part of 2017.
Senior Independent Director and membership of Board Committees Following the scheduled retirement of AnnGrant after nine years service on the Board, the Committee recommended Jeremy Wilson be appointed Senior Independent Director.
Jeremy confirmed to the Committee that he is able to commit additional time to the role, if required, in order to carry out any duties that arise as a result of theappointment of a non-independent Chairman.
The Committee also reviewed the membership and chairmanship of each of the Board Committees in light of the changes to the composition of the Board.
