CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 2 Governance DEAR SHAREHOLDER Steve Lucas has been Audit Committee Maintaining a strong corporate governance Chairman since May 2012.
Steve, who and risk management practice is a key isa Chartered Accountant, was finance part of Tullows business model and the director at National Grid plc from 2002 Board and Audit Committee continue to be to2010.
It is a requirement of the UK focused on maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance Code that at least governance and risk management across one Committee member has recent and the Group.
The Audit Committee oversees relevant financial experience and Steve the financial reporting process in order to Lucas therefore meets this requirement.
make sure that the information provided to The other members of the Audit the shareholders is fair, balanced and Committee are Ann Grant, Tutu Agyare, understandable and allows assessment of Anne Drinkwater, Jeremy Wilson and the Companys position, performance, The Boards objective is Mike Daly.
Biographies of the Committee business model and strategy.
to ensure that Tullow has members are given on pages 42 and 43.
The Audit Committee continued to oversee appropriate systems in Together the members of the Committee the risk management and internal control demonstrate competence in the oil and gas place for the identification systems in 2016, which were particularly industry with Mike Daly, Anne Drinkwater and management of risks.
tested as the Company adjusted to a low and Steve Lucas having significant prior oil price and reacted quickly to reduced Steve Lucas experience in oil and gas companies, production from the Jubilee field caused Chairman of the Audit Committee while also bringing a wider range of by an issue with theFPSO turret.
In 2016, industry, commercial and financial the focus of the Audit Committee was to experience, which is vital in supporting ensure thatthe enhancements made to Meetings effective governance.
The Company Committee members attended the riskmanagement practices were Secretary serves as the secretary to sustainable and embedded as part Steve Lucas 4 4 theCommittee.
ofongoing business performance Tutu Agyare 4 4 management.
We were pleased The Chief Financial Officer, the Anne Drinkwater 4 4 withgreater integration of the risk GroupInternal Audit Manager, the Vice management process with assurance Ann Grant 4 4 President Commercial & Finance and planning which ensures greater alignment representatives of the external auditor Jeremy Wilson 4 4 with strategic risks, while keeping ongoing are invited to attend each meeting of the Mike Daly 4 4 focus on the material financial, operational Committee and participated in all of the and compliance controls.
The Chairman of Committee plays anactive role in that the Board also attends meetings of the 2016 highlights process by making sure it meets business Committee by invitation and was present Approval of half-year and fullneeds and remains fit for purpose.
The year Financial Statements external auditor and the Group Internal The internal control environment has also Audit Manager have unrestricted access Review of the effectiveness of seen improvements during the year, to the Committee Chairman.
the external audit process predominantly due to the roll-out of a common Integrated Management System, Review of the effectiveness of which provided clarity around the control Internal Audit requirements, successful launch of the Review of the work of the revised Code of Ethical Conduct, as well as independent reserves auditor ALLOCATION OF AUDIT COMMITTEE TIME a reduction in fraud risk by implementation of a formalised segregation of duties Assessment of the remit and framework and an automated GRC solution results of Internal Audit to manage SAP system access risks.
Review of Senior Accounting The Audit Committee has also worked on Officer sign-off process adapting to the changes brought in 2016 to Review of finance and treasury the regulatory framework regarding auditor activities independence and the requirements for the Audit Committee performance introduced Review of hedging and by publication of the revisions of the insurance arrangements Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate 42 12 32 14 G Review of legal exposures and Governance Code, Guidance on Audit provisions Committees and the Ethical Standard.
Financial Results 42% Review of tax and formulation of Steve Lucas Internal audit matters 12% the tax strategy disclosure Chairman of the Audit Committee Risk and controls 32% Governance 14% 7 February 2017 www.
com 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Governance continued While the Ethics & Compliance Committee maintained In 2016, the Audit Committee met on four occasions.
Meetings responsibility for monitoring systems and controls to prevent are scheduled to allow sufficient time for full discussion of key bribery and corruption, the Audit Committee still received topics and to enable early identification and resolution of risks updates from the Group Ethics & Compliance Manager on and issues.
Meetings are aligned with the Groups financial anysignificant non-compliances.
Key areas reviewed in 2016 The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference The Committee fully discharged its responsibilities during the during the year.
These are in line with best practice and reflect year and the following describes the work completed by the the requirements of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Audit Committee in 2016: Governance Code, the FRCs 2016 Guidance on Audit Committees, the FRCs 2014 Guidance on Risk Management Annual Report and Internal Control, the FRCs 2016 Ethical Standards, and the A key element of the governance requirements regarding the Competition and Markets Authoritys The Statutory Audit Groups Financial Statements is for the report and accounts Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory tobe fair, balanced and understandable.
To ensure this Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee requirement is met by Tullow, the Group takes a collaborative Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Audit Committees terms of approach to creating its Annual Report and Accounts, reference can be accessed via the corporate website.
The Board withdirect input from the Board throughout the process.
approved the terms of reference on 6 December 2016.
Theprocess of planning, writing and reviewing the report isrunby acentral project team, alongside a formal audit Summary of responsibilities process undertaken by our external auditor.
In order for the The Committees detailed responsibilities are described in its Audit Committee and the Board to be satisfied with the overall terms of reference and include: fairness, balance and clarity of the final report, the following monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the steps are taken: Group, reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant early planning, taking into consideration regulatory changes financial reporting issues and judgements, among others and best practice: including going concern and viability assessments: comprehensive guidance issued to key report contributors review and, where necessary, challenge the consistency of across the Group: significant accounting policies, and whether appropriate accounting standards have been used: a series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across different levels in the Group that aim to ensure consistency review the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and and overall balance: and advise the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Senior Management and Board sign-off.
shareholders to assess Tullows position, performance, business model and strategy: Financial reporting Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements and monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness of the formal announcements relating to the Groups financial Companys internal financial controls and internal control performance.
Reviewing the significant financial reporting and risk management systems: issues and accounting policies and disclosures in the review the adequacy of the whistle-blowing system, and the financial reports.
Companys procedures for detecting fraud: The Committee met with the external auditor as part of the review and assess the annual internal audit plan and full-year and half-year accounts approval process.
During receive a report on the results of the Internal Audit this exercise the Committee considered the key audit risks functions work on a periodic basis: identified as being significant to the 2016 accounts and the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or oversee the relationship with the external auditor including judgemental matters identified during the audit and assessing its independence and objectivity, review the half-yearly review as well as any recommendations or annual audit plan to ensure it is consistent with the scope of observations made by the external auditor.
The primary the audit engagement, and review the findings of the audit: areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation assess the qualifications, expertise and resources of the to the 2016 accounts and how these were addressed are external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: and detailed opposite: ensure that, following the transition period applied under the CMA Order, the audit services contract is put out to tender at least once every 10 years.
70 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Significant financial judgements for2016 How the Committee addressed thesejudgements Recognition of finance lease liabilities: The Group has a contract with a supplier for the The Committee and Deloitte LLP reviewed and lease of the TEN FPSO.
Management were required to exercise judgement in determining challenged managements judgement that the TEN whether the FPSO should be recognised as a finance lease in accordance with IAS 17 as FPSO lease did not meet the IAS 17 finance lease at December 2016.
The key judgement involved in determining whether a finance lease recognition criteria at year end 31December 2016. should be recognised was an assessment of key contractual clauses, as due to the delays in commissioning the vessel the Certificate of Offshore Completion was not issued before 31 December 2016, and as such the non-cancellable lease period had not commenced.
Inaddition, the Group had not obtained the right of use of the vessel in its intended form.
Recognition of assets held for sale see also note 18 to the Financial Statements : The The Committee and Deloitte LLP reviewed and Group signed a sales and purchase agreement to farm-down a portion of our interest in challenged managements judgement that they were Uganda to Total on 9 January 2017.
Management has exercised judgement in determining committed to the farm-down and the sale as highly that this disposal met the requirements of IFRS 5 and that the associated assets and probable ahead of the balance sheet date.
liabilities should be transferred toheld for sale at 31 December 2016.
Carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets see also note 11 to the The Group has a very active exploration and Financial Statements : The amounts for intangible exploration and evaluation assets appraisal work programme and the Committee represent active exploration projects.
These amounts will be written off to the income reviews and challenges management assumptions statement as exploration costs unless commercial reserves are established or the and judgements underlying the calculation of determination process is not completed and there are no indications of impairment in intangible assets for each licence at each balance accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The process of determining whether there is sheet date.
In addition, Deloitte LLP has identified an indicator for impairment or calculating the impairment requires critical estimation.
The this as a significant area of focus for its audit and key areas in which management has applied judgement and estimation are as follows: the undertakes discussions with operational and finance Group's intention to proceed with a future work programme for a prospect or licence: the staff to challenge evidence provided by management likelihood of licence renewal or extension: and the success of a well result or geological or to support the value of intangible assets and provides geophysical survey.
detailed reporting to the Committee on the results of its work.
This is a recurring area of judgement.
Carrying value of property, plant and equipment see also note 12 to the Financial Results of the impairment tests were discussed and Statements : Management performs impairment reviews on the Groups property, plant challenged by the Committee.
In addition, Deloitte and equipment assets at least annually with reference to indicators in IAS 36 Impairment of LLP performs similar procedures and audits the Assets.
Where indicators are present and an impairment test is required, the calculation of underlying economic models to satisfy itself of the recoverable amount requires estimation of future cash flows within complex impairment theintegrity of the process.
This is a recurring area models.
Key assumptions and estimates in the impairment models relate to: commodity prices that are based on forward curves for two years, the mid-term price assumption for three years after this and the long-term corporate economic assumptions thereafter, pre-tax discount rates that are adjusted to reflect risks specific to individual assets, commercial reserves and the related cost profiles.
Presumption of going concern: The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, assumptions andjudgements in the underlying but not limited to, changes in commodity prices, different production rates from the Groups going concern forecast cash flows by discussing and producing assets and delays to development projects.
In addition to the Groups operating analysing the risks, sensitivities and mitigations cash flows, portfolio management opportunities and other funding options are reviewed to identified by management.
This is also an area of potentially enhance the financial capability and flexibility of the Group.
In the current low higher risk and as aresult the Committee receives commodity price environment, the Group has taken appropriate action to reduce its cost in-depth written and oral reporting from Deloitte base and had $1.0 billion of debt liquidity headroom and free cash at the end of 2016.
The LLP on its conclusions on management assessment Groups forecast, taking into account the risks described above, shows that the Group will ofgoing concern.
be able to operate within its current debt facilities and have sufficient financial headroom for the 12 months from the date of approval ofthe 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Decommissioning costs see also note 23 to the Financial Statements : Decommissioning A review of all decommissioning cost estimates is costs are uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response tomany factors, including undertaken annuallyby internal experts.
The results changes to the relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new technology or experience are then reviewed in the context of operator estimates atother assets.
The expected timing, work scope, amount of expenditure and riskweighting for the purposes of the annual FinancialStatements.
Thereforesignificant estimates and assumptions are made in determining Provision for environmental clean-up and remediation theprovision for decommissioning.
costs is based on current legal and contractual requirements, technology and price levels.
The impact on decommissioning estimates was reviewed and challenged by the Committee.
Deloitte LLP also reviewed the results as part ofits audit.
This is arecurring area of judgement.
Provisions for onerous service contracts see also note 23 to the Financial Statements : The Committee reviewed and challenged the Due to the reduction in planned future work programmes, the Group has identified a number assessment of the Groups onerous contracts of onerous service contracts.
In order to calculate the provisions management has estimated withDeloitte LLP, including an assessment of the expected future usage of the contracts and its estimated liability under the contract.
theintended usage and assumed rates which underpinned the calculation of the provision.
com 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In 2016 Tullows Annual Report and Accounts for 2015 have partner throughout the year.
These meetings provide an been subject to a review by the Financial Reporting Council.
opportunity for open dialogue with the external auditor The review focused on the discount rate used to calculate without management being present.
Matters discussed recoverable amount of goodwill and PPE, goodwill and PPE included the auditors assessment of significant financial impairment sensitivities and going concern disclosures.
We are risks and the performance of management in addressing pleased with the outcome of the review as no material findings these risks, the auditors opinion of managements role have been reported by the FRC.
The FRC has, however, infulfilling obligations for the maintenance of internal encouraged some improvement to Tullows disclosure on controls, the transparency and responsiveness of discount rates, which we have implemented in our 2016 report interactions with management, confirmation that no and accounts.
The FRC has also identified a number of other restrictions have been placed on it by management, disclosure areas, which are less material for Tullow, which maintaining the independence of the audit and how wekeep under review to ensure that, if they become material, ithasexercised professional challenge.
they are enhanced to meet FRC expectations.
In order to ensure the effectiveness of the external audit process, Deloitte LLP conducts an audit risk identification External auditor process at the start of the audit cycle.
This plan is presented Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or to the Audit Committee for its review and approval and, re-appointment of the Groups external auditors with, where forthe 2016 audit, the key audit risks identified included appropriate, the selection of a new external auditor, overseeing carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets, carrying the Boards relationship with the external auditor and regular value of plant, property and equipment, provision for tax assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process claims, decommissioning provisions, risk of management isa key responsibility of the Audit Committee.
override, going concern, depreciation depletion and The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the Audit amortisation DD&A, revenue recognition as well as Committee should have primary responsibility for making provisions for onerous service contracts.
Theseand other arecommendation on the appointment, re-appointment identified risks are reviewed through the year and reported orremoval of the external auditor.
On the basis of the at Audit Committee meetings where the Committee review of external audit effectiveness described below, the challenges the work completed by the auditor and tests Committee recommended to the Board that it recommends managements assumptions and estimates in relation to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte as Tullows tothese risks.
The Committee also seeks an assessment statutory auditor at the 2017 AGM.
from management of the effectiveness of theaudit process.
Inaddition, a separate questionnaire addressed to all The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner attendees of the Audit Committee and senior finance managers responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current is used to assess external audit effectiveness.
Asa result of Deloitte lead audit partner, Mr. Dean Cook, started his these reviews, the Audit Committee considered the external tenure in 2015 and his current rotation will end with the audit process to be operating effectively.
The Committee closely monitors the level of audit and The audit contract was last tendered in 2004 and no non-audit services provided by the external auditor to contractual obligations existed that acted to restrict the theGroup.
Non-audit services are normally limited to Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
Under the assignments that are closely related to the annual audit EUAudit Regulation and the Competition and Markets orwhere the work is of such a nature that a detailed Authoritys The Statutory Audit Services for Large understanding of the Group is necessary.
A policy and Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of standard for the engagement of the external auditor to Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee supply non-audit services is in place to formalise these Responsibilities Order 2014, Tullow elected to apply the arrangements, which requires Audit Committee approval transitional rules with an annual review of this approach.
for certain categories of work.
This policy and standard are According to those rules, the Company is required to designed to ensure the external auditors independence runacompetitive tender process in respect of auditor ismaintained.
They have been revised in 2016 to reflect appointment no later than 31 December 2024. changes in the regulatory environment.
The Groups external auditor is Deloitte LLP and the A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditor in AuditCommittee assessed the qualification, expertise, respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note 4 resources, and independence of the external auditor as tothe Financial Statements.
In addition to processes put wellas the effectiveness of the audit process.
This review inplace to ensure segregation of audit and non-audit roles, covered all aspects of the audit service provided by Deloitte Deloitte LLP is required, as part of the assurance process LLP, including obtaining a report on the audit firms own inrelation to the audit, to confirm to the Committee that it internal quality control procedures and consideration of has both the appropriate independence and the objectivity theaudit firms annual transparency reports in line with toallow it to continue to serve the members of the Company.
The Audit Committee This confirmation is received every six months and no matters also approved the external audit terms of engagement of concern were identified by the Committee.
During 2016 the Committee held private meetings with the external auditor and the Audit Committee Chairman also maintained regular contact with the audit 72 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Internal controls and risk management inGhana, Uganda and Kenya.
Detailed results from these reviews were reported to management and in summary to Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk the Audit Committee during the year.
Where required the management and internal control systems is delegated to the Audit Committee receives full details on any key findings.
Audit Committee by the Board.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports on the status The Audit Committee obtained comfort over the effectiveness of the implementation of Internal Audit recommendations.
ofthe Groups risk management and internal control systems The Group also undertook regular audits of non-operated through activities coordinated by the Internal Audit function.
Joint Ventures under the supervision of Business Unit These activities comprised: management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
audit reviews undertaken by the Internal Audit team: The Committee receives summaries of investigations of significant known or suspected fraudulent activity by third assurance activities undertaken by the Group functions: parties and employees including ongoing monitoring and enhancement of the enterprise risk management process: following-up of fraud investigations.
external auditors observations on internal financial The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of Internal controls identified as part of its audit: and Audit through its review of progress versus plan, the results ofaudits reported at each of the meetings, and the thorough regular performance, risk and assurance reporting by the self-assessment review report provided by the Group Internal Business Unit and Corporate teams to the Board.
Results of the review were discussed at the During the year, Group Internal Audit presented its findings to Committee meetings and actions to further improve Internal the Audit Committee, which monitored progress of issues Audit effectiveness are being implemented.
Resourcing levels raised and their timely resolution on a regular basis.
in Internal Audit are assessed by the Audit Committee with aview to ensuring that it can fully discharge its duties.
In addition, during the year, the Audit Committee received reports from the independent reserves auditor ERCE and Whistle-blowing procedure reviewed the arrangements in place for managing information Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure is in place.
technology risk relating to the Groups critical information systems.
The Committee also reviewed the arrangements for In line with best practice and to ensure Tullow works to the Company employees and contractors to raise concerns through highest ethical standards, an independent whistle-blowing the Speaking Up programme.
procedure was in operation throughout 2016 to allow staff to raise in confidence any concerns about business practices.
Based on the results of the annual effectiveness review of risk This procedure complements established internal reporting management and internal control systems that was processes.
The whistle-blowing policy is included in the coordinated by Group Internal Audit, the Audit Committee Code of Ethical Conduct which is available to all staff in concluded that the system of internal controls operated printed form and on the corporate website.
The Committee effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on considers the whistle-blowing procedures to be appropriate which the Financial Statements were signed.
for the size and scale of the Group.
Internal Audit requirements Review of effectiveness of the Audit Committee Considering how the Groups Internal Audit requirements shall During the year, the Audit Committee commissioned an be satisfied and making recommendations to the Board.
independent review of its own effectiveness with the results The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access and reported to the Board.
The Committee was considered responsibility to the Audit Committee Chairman and tobeoperating effectively and in accordance with the Committee.
His main responsibilities include: evaluating UKCorporate Governance Code and the relevant guidance.
the development of the Groups overall control environment as well as the effectiveness of risk identification and management at operating, regional and corporate levels.
During 2016, the Group Internal Audit Manager met with theAudit Committee Chairman and with the Audit Committee without the presence of management to assessmanagements responsiveness to Internal Audit recommendations made during the year and to assess theeffectiveness of Internal Audit.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the programme of2016 Internal Audit work developed to address both financial and overall risk management objectives identified within the Group.
The plan was subsequently adopted with progress reported at each of the Audit Committee meetings.
41 Internal Audit reviews were undertaken during the year, covering a range of financial and business processes in the Groups London office and the main operational locations www.
