Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 51 Report of the Audit Committee We have monitored the integration plan recognising that the harmonisation ofgood financial controls is essential following the acquisition of ICAP.
Roger Perkin Chairman, Audit Committee I regularly report to the Board on how the Composition Chairmans Statement Committee has discharged its Roger Perkin chaired the Committee during Dear shareholder responsibilities.
As requested by the Board, the year.
The other members of the As Chairman of the Audit Committee the the Committee has considered the processes Committee during the year were Angela Committee, I am pleased to introduce this and controls in place to help ensure that the Knight and Carol Sergeant.
All members report which sets out how the Committee has Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and ofthe Committee are Independent discharged its responsibilities during the understandable view of the business.
The Committees primary focus is to result of this work the Committee concluded Chairman has recent and relevant financial ensure the integrity of financial reporting by that the processes and controls were experience and the other members of the reviewing the controls in place and those appropriate and was able to provide Committee also combine knowledge and areas where judgement is required.
positive assurance to the Board.
experience of financial matters, risk management and internal controls.
The One of the key areas for the Committee this The Committee undertook a thorough Chairman of the Committee is also a year has been discussing the arrangements annual selfassessment of its performance member of the Risk Committee.
for the internal and external audit of the and effectiveness to review that good business and companies acquired through governance practices are in place.
The table on page 49 sets out the Directors the acquisition of ICAP as well as the The results indicated that the Committee attendance at Committee meetings during accounting judgements in respect of the was effective in carrying out its duties.
We have monitored the integration plan recognising that the The Risk Committee has primary oversight The Chairman, the Executive Directors, the harmonisation of good financial controls is of the Groups risk management framework Companys external and internal auditors, essential following the acquisition of ICAP.
and complements the review of the control and other senior risk management and framework undertaken by the Committee.
finance personnel all attend Committee Outside of the formal Committee meetings, The Report of the Risk Committee is set out meetings by invitation.
Additionally, other Imaintain regular dialogue with internal on page 54. members of management are invited to andexternal auditors.
I visited the Group attend to update the Committee on progress inSingapore and New York where I met with Roger Perkin in responding to auditor findings.
The both local management and auditors in Chairman Committee has a discussion with the external order better to understand local issues and Audit Committee auditor at least once a year without the the respective audit arrangements.
14 March 2017 Executive Directors being present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
Terms of Reference The Committee is responsible for the effective governance of the Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of financial disclosures and both the external and internal audit function.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website, www.
com 52 Governance report Report of the Audit Committee continued Areas of focus in 2016 Presentation of acquisition, disposal the information necessary for shareholders The Committee was engaged in a number andintegration related items to assess the Groups position, performance, ofactivities during 2016, the more significant The approach to defining acquisition, business model and strategy.
of which are described below: disposal and integration related items is set Going concern and viability statement out in Note 2 c to the Consolidated Financial reviewing significant financial reporting The assumptions relating to the going Statements.
The Committee was most judgements concern review and viability statement were concerned to be satisfied as to the rationale review of the Annual Report and considered, including the medium term for exclusion of items from underlying results Financial Statements and half year results projections, stress tests and mitigation plans.
and the subsequent presentation, ensuring reviewing the Groups basis for going On the basis of the review, the Committee that undue prominence was not given to concern and the longer-term advised the Board that it was appropriate non-statutory measures.
viabilitystatement for the Annual Report and Financial review of the effectiveness of external audit The above was challenged in Committee Statements to be prepared on the going review of external auditor independence and the external auditors view was sought concern basis.
The Committee also reviewed review of the policy for, and provision of, and their procedures, as set out in their the long term viability statement taking into non-audit services by the external auditor report, were reviewed.
On the basis of the account the Groups current position and review of the effectiveness of the above, the Committee is satisfied as to the principal risks and uncertainties and advised Groupssystems of risk management appropriateness of the definition, the the Board that the viability statement and andinternal control disclosure and the computation.
the three year period of the assessment were review and approval of Internal Audits appropriate.
Impairment of goodwill and other annual audit plan intangibles External auditor effectiveness and review of the results and findings of The Groups assessment of goodwill and independence Internal Audits work other intangibles for impairment is described In considering the 2016 Annual Report, review of the effectiveness of in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial the Committee reviewed the objectivity InternalAudit Statements: and the procedures adopted and independence of the external auditor.
review of whistleblowing arrangements bythe external auditor are described in The Committee considered the professional The Committee members also received updates theirreport.
and regulatory guidance on auditor from the external auditor on accounting independence and Deloittes policies and The Committee considered whether the facts developments, corporate governance and procedures for managing independence taken into account were complete and viability statement requirements.
and was satisfied with the auditors consistent with the Groups business planning representations.
Significant financial reporting process, and challenged both management judgements in 2016 and the external auditor as to the extent to During the year the Committee considered The Committee considered the following which they had examined potential stress the effectiveness of the external audit judgements in connection with the 2016 outcomes to the base case used, particularly process including their expertise, efficiency, Consolidated Financial Statements and were in respect of sensitivities to reasonably global service delivery and cost satisfied that the judgements were appropriate.
This review included consideration of the FRCs Annual Quality Accounting for the acquisition of ICAP Based on the above the Committee is Inspection Annual Report 2015 16 on The accounting for the acquisition of ICAP satisfied with the process undertaken and Deloitte and its review of Deloittes 2015 is described in Note 30 to the Consolidated the resultant financial statement impact.
It also included a review Financial Statements and the procedures of the external auditors plans for the audit Review of the financial statements adopted by the external auditor are of the combined Group, and incorporated The Committee reviewed the integrity described in their report.
feedback received from senior management.
of the Consolidated Financial Statements The effectiveness of management in the Recognising that, at this stage, the included in the half-year and preliminary external audit process was also assessed, acquisition accounting is provisional, the announcements of results and the 2016 principally in relation to the timely Committee understood the judgements Annual Report, prior to their approval identification and resolution of areas of taken by management, considered whether by the Board.
accounting judgement, the quality and the information provided to the Groups timeliness of papers analysing those When conducting the review, the Committee external valuation specialists was complete judgements, managements approach to the considered the continuing appropriateness and reviewed the procedures performed by value of independent audit and the booking of the accounting policies, important the external auditor including the of any audit adjustments arising and the financial reporting judgements and the involvement of their own valuation timely provision of draft public documents adequacy and appropriateness of specialists.
Based on the above, the for review by the external auditor and the disclosures.
The Committee also reviewed Committee is satisfied with the provisional Committee.
the content of the Annual Report and accounting and related disclosures included advised the Board that, in its view, the in these financial statements.
The FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, monitors the quality of audit work of UK balanced and understandable and provides audit firms.
During 2016, the AQR reviewed TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 53 Deloittes 2015 audit of the Group.
The Committee will of the effectiveness of the internal control review did not note any findings and monitor developments in best practice with and risk management systems and to report commended Deloitte on the particularly regard to audit tender arrangements.
The Committee high standard of their planning and risk conducted a formal review of the At the same time that the external audit assessment and co-ordination and review effectiveness of the Groups internal control was put out for tender, the Committee also of component auditors.
systems for 2016, considering reports from reviewed the Companys internal audit management, external audit and the work of The conclusion of the Committee was that arrangements.
The Committee concluded the Group Risk and Internal Audit functions.
the 2016 external audit had been effective.
that its internal audit services will continue to be outsourced.
This process has been in place for the year Non-audit services under review and up to the date of approval In order to safeguard the external auditors In the context of the acquisition of the ICAP of the Annual Report, is reviewed regularly independence and objectivity, the Company business, the Committee considered the by the Board and accords with the FRCs does not engage Deloitte for any non-audit audit arrangements for the combined Group Internal Control: Guidance for Directors.
services except where it is work that they going forward.
It concluded that in light of must, or are clearly best suited to, perform.
the recent audit tender referred to above Internal Audit All proposed services must be pre-approved and taking into account the results of the The Committee is responsible for monitoring in accordance with the non-audit services review of the effectiveness of the external and reviewing the effectiveness of Internal policy, which is reviewed and approved audit above, the Committee would continue Audit.
The internal audit plan is approved by annually.
As part of the EU audit reform, with with Deloitte as external auditor of the newly the Committee and kept under review during effect from 1 January 2017, the FRCs Ethical enlarged Group.
the year, in order to reflect the changing Standard places further restrictions on business needs and to ensure new and The Company confirms its compliance with auditors undertaking non-audit services.
During 2016 the requirements of the Statutory Audit Accordingly, we have revised our policies for the Committee reviewed the work and Services for Large Companies Market the engagement of the external auditor to reports of Internal Audit, together with Investigation Mandatory Use of undertake non-audit services.
implementation of internal audit Competitive Tender Processes and Audit recommendations and monitored progress The Committee reviewed the level of fees Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 against the internal audit plan during 2016 paid to the external auditor in respect of the throughout the year ended 31 December to ensure that the audit plan had been various non-audit services provided during 2016.
The Committee is now solely completed effectively.
2016 which are disclosed in Note 6 to the responsible for negotiating and agreeing Consolidated Financial Statements.
During the external auditors fees, agreeing the The Committee reviewed and approved the the period under review the non-audit scope of the statutory audit, initiating and internal audit plan for the new internal audit services performed by the external auditor supervising a competitive tender process for year, running from 1 July 2016 to 30 June amounted to 1.4m, 39% compared with the the external audit where appropriate to do 2017, prepared by the Head of Internal 3.6m of audit fees.
These non-audit services so, and make recommendations to the Board Audit, and reviewed the work and reports include 0.9m of fees related to the as to the external auditors appointment of Internal Audit since 1 January 2016. acquisition of ICAP, in respect of due pursuant to any such process.
Taking account of both the effective diligence services 0.3m and acting as Risk management and internal control performance of the outsourced internal reporting accountant 0.6m, which the The Board is responsible for setting the audit provider to Tullett Prebon and that Committee believed Deloitte were clearly Groups risk appetite and ensuring that they also acted as internal auditor of ICAP, best placed to provide due to their it has an appropriate and effective risk the Committee confirmed their continuing knowledge of the business and the synergies management framework and for monitoring appointment in respect of the that existed between this work and the 2016 the ongoing process for identifying, enlarged Group.
external audit of the Group.
Excluding these evaluating, managing and reporting the fees, the proportion of non-audit fees to Subsequent to the year end, following the significant risks faced by the Group.
Deloitte confirmed to acquisition of ICAP, the Committee has ERMF and principal risks are described the Committee that they did not believe that approved the updated internal audit plan in the Risk Management section of the the level of non-audit fees had affected their for the combined business for the first half Strategic Report.
The Board is also responsible for the Groups External audit tenders Whistleblowing system of internal control and for reviewing Deloitte has been the Companys auditor The Committee reviewed arrangements its effectiveness.
The system is designed to since its listing in December 2006. by which employees may, in confidence, raise manage rather than eliminate the risk of concerns about improprieties in matters In 2013 the Board put the external audit failure to achieve business objectives, and of financial reporting or other matters.
In contract out for tender and concluded that can only provide reasonable and not conducting the review, the Committee took Deloitte should be re-appointed and that a absolute assurance against misstatement into account whether the policies were in line new lead audit partner, Robert Topley, would or loss.
In discharging its responsibilities in with guidance published by the FCA.
be appointed to the Companys audit by this respect, the Board has appointed the Deloitte in 2014 in accordance with normal Committee to carry out an annual review www.
