50 Governance report Report of the Nominations Committee Rupert Robson Chairman, Nominations Committee appointments to the Board and to senior Chairmans Statement management, to maintain an appropriate Composition balance of skills and experience within the The Nominations Committee the Company and on the Board, and to ensure Committee is chaired by Rupert Robson.
the progressive refreshing of the Board.
The other members throughout the year were Angela Knight, Roger Perkin and This included the nomination of Andrew Stephen Pull.
The other Non-executive Baddeley as Chief Financial Officer of the Directors and Executive Directors are invited Company, and also the search for new to attend meetings where appropriate.
Non-executive Directors as outlined David Shalders and Carol Sergeant joined previously.
It also includes supporting the the Committee in January 2017.
Board in its work with respect to diversity.
The Committee agreed formal succession All members of the Committee, other than plans in the event that the Chief Executive the Chairman, are Independent or Chief Financial Officer were absent on Non-executive Directors.
The Board has delegated responsibility In February the Committee similarly agreed tothe Committee for: with the Chief Executives formal succession plans for each member of the GEC.
The reviewing the balance and skill, Committee also considered longer term knowledge and experience of the Board succession within the Group at a senior level, agreeing and implementing and has discussed this topic with the CEO proceduresfor the selection of and the Group Head of HR.
newBoardappointments making recommendations to the Board The external search consultancy retained by on all proposed new appointments, the Board in respect of the appointment of elections and re-elections of Directors Andrew Baddeley was MWM.
The Company atAGMs does not have any connection with MWM.
The Committee is authorised to obtain all In May the Committee met to review in necessary information from within the depth the governance structure of TP ICAP Company, and to access professional and how this would be appropriately advicefrom inside and outside the resourced to achieve a successful TP ICAP Company, asitconsiders necessary.
integration, to establish the Group as a platform for growth, transform the business The Terms of Reference of the Committee in line with the strategic plan and to make it are available at www.
Work of the Nominations Committee Rupert Robson The main tasks of the Committee are to Chairman consider Board composition and manage Nominations Committee succession planning.
The Company has plans 14 March 2017 in place for orderly succession for TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016
