38 Strategic report Resources, relationships and responsibilities We aim to manage our business responsibly, for the long-term benefit of all stakeholders as well as society more broadly.
This is reflected in our ongoing commitment to maintaining a professional culture and sound business practices and relationships, developing our employees, and supporting the communities where we operate.
Our role in society Resources indirectly discriminate against employees, Our primary role in society is rooted in We recognise that our success depends ex-employees, or candidates on the basis creating economic value.
We contribute on building a high-quality, sustainable of any protected characteristics, and will tothe stability and prosperity of local workforce.
We therefore make a significant not tolerate unlawful discrimination by economies by helping governments and investment in recruitment and training to employees.
The policy aims to ensure we companies raise capital and manage risk, attract, develop and retain the people respect the backgrounds, beliefs and cultures weprovide transparency for customers, and we need.
of all employees, and that the working we help maintain the liquidity of markets.
environment is free from discrimination, Employee numbers and gender diversity This provision of liquidity, particularly at harassment and bullying.
In the event that At 31 December 2016 excluding ICAP times of economic uncertainty, facilitates an employee becomes disabled, the Groups employees acquired on 30 December investment in businesses and pension funds, policy is to make reasonable adjustments, 2016, the Board comprised two women and thus contributing to economic growth and including arranging training, to enable the six men, the same as last year.
The mix of sustaining society.
employee to continue working for the Group.
senior managers at 31 December 2016 was Over and above this role, and our public 12 women and 56 men from six women and Recruitment commitment to act responsibly, we are 53 men in 2015.
Overall employee numbers Public misgivings about our sector may in the process of developing a corporate on 31 December 2016 were 599 women and potentially have an impact on our ability responsibility strategy for the enlarged 2,130 men 2015 reported 556 women and to attract the brightest and the best, and so business.
This will map out how our business 2,129 men.
we have implemented some new initiatives can influence and bring about positive for hiring and training the next generation Longevity of service change.
In a time of public distrust towards of brokers.
Our Early Career Talent Academy At 31 December 2016 excluding ICAP big business and financial firms, its important matches recruits key attributes to our employees acquired on 30 December 2016, we maintain our efforts to strengthen our business needs, rather than focusing on their the data on length ofservice was as follows: reputation, as well as enhance the Company academic background, and features an in the eyes of existing and prospective audition day based on The Apprentice TV Less than investors, employees, customers, and show format.
In November we selected ten 5 years 5-10 years 10 years partners, as well as wider society.
trainee brokers to start with us in London, from 2,000 applicants.
In January 2017, EMEA 41% 23% 36% In the past few years, the Company has another ten successful candidates from a Americas 51% 19% 30% taken some specific actions with regard second Talent Academy event became our Asia Pacific 50% 24% 26% to corporate responsibility, and in 2016 first Energy Early Career cohort.
implemented a Group Corporate and Social Equal opportunities Responsibility Policy.
Now, as TP ICAP, we Our early talent strategy will rely heavily on In June 2016, we updated our Global Equal are making good progress in framing the online channels to interact with potential Opportunities Policy.
It describes the Groups new businesss corporate responsibility candidates.
We launched a new careers support of equal opportunity in employment, objectives and developing an overarching page on our website, advertising our and our opposition to all forms of unlawful or strategy, and will announce more detail as vacancies globally and offering the unfair discrimination.
It applies to all aspects we move through 2017. functionality for candidates to download of the employment relationship, such as job descriptions and upload their CVs.
recruitment, training, career prospects, This will in time become a fully functioning terms and conditions and performance careers campaign site.
We will not directly or launched a careers page on LinkedIn.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 39 Development, training and Culture Relationships newe-learning modules We recognise that culture is a critical element Business ethics We believe in the ongoing development of the long-term performance of any business, We require high standards of ethical of all employees, and offer training, especially when two different cultures are behaviour throughout the business, and development opportunities and support brought together.
A healthy culture, regularly policies and procedures exist to ensure through our performance management reviewed, can enhance company value and employees and contractors at all levels system and regular HR offering.
We be a source of competitive advantage.
We understand and maintain these.
launched a new Global Training policy strongly believe our culture will need to Thepoliciesaim to ensure: where employees can request sponsorship create this value in a balanced way, focusing we maintain high standards of for appropriate training.
on risk mitigation and conduct, while at the compliance and risk management, same time creating an employee value We now have e-learning modules available ultimately the responsibility of the proposition to attract andretain the to all employees as part of our commitment ChiefExecutive, and monitored by workforce we want.
to employee learning and development theBoard and Audit Committee.
The video modules range Tullett Prebon launched a Cultural we comply fully with the legal and from abroad overview of financial markets Framework in December 2014, recognising regulatory requirements wherever we and the major participants, to a more the importance of a set of unwavering operate, including the FCAs Conduct detailed explanation of specific markets standards and expectations in weathering of Business Sourcebook and the Bank of covering cash, securities, rates and stress and pressure.
In the years since, we Englands Non-Investment Products Code.
have reinforced these standards with our we prohibit corrupt practices, such brokers, and the working environment asinappropriate payments to any Performance management and reward hasimproved accordingly.
There is more thirdparty, directly or indirectly.
Building on the launch of performance awareness of the importance of culture, we comply fully with tax laws wherever management in 2015, in 2016 we introduced andrecognition that this is a daily effort we operate.
the performance management cycle to all andcontinuous journey.
we trade fairly, knowing our clients employees.
In the UK and across EMEA we andproperly understanding our trades continued to roll out the formal assessment Both Tullett Prebon and ICAP have been with clients.
We have a policy of not linking broker compensation to our values on a cultural journey to being a modern participating in trading activities we and conduct.
Now we are suspect may not be for legitimate trading clear about our key propositions for our purposes, or whose sole purpose appears All non-broking employees are set objectives future culture as TP ICAP, we recognise that to be tax reduction by the counterparty.
at the start of the year which, along with a number of areas require attention and we guide employees involved in behaviour linked to our values and conduct, development.
These form a list that we will procurement, including a requirement will form their year-end appraisal.
continue to test fully and develop further, to adhere to the highest ethical and before putting together our target culture social standards.
The pulse survey and detailed plan of action, which we will we maintain appropriate guidelines In October 2016, we carried out a short pulse align to the broader integration plan.
This on gifts, hospitality, entertainment survey across Tullett Prebon and ICAP, plan will go to the Board during Q2 2017. and conflicts of interest.
achieving 67% participation, with 3,460 Fromthere, to make our plans a reality, we all our employees adhere to and total responses.
The feedback is now helping will work together as a leadership team to continually demonstrate our Company us understand employees views on todays emphasise the importance of delivering values of Honesty, Integrity, Respect leadership, communication and culture, and this plan.
and Excellence, which are outlined in our what they would like to see happen in the Code of Conduct, to ensure a welcoming, future.
We supplemented the initial survey safe and secure workplace.
with follow on interviews and focus groups to discuss feedback.
We shared the results with In addition, we support the UN Guiding all concerned.
We have a full engagement Principles on Business and Human Rights.
This includes implementing our obligations under the UKModern Slavery Act.
As a newly formed business, TP ICAP is undertaking a thorough review of its Corporate Social Responsibility practices and as such a fullerstatement on modern slavery will appear on our Company website as soon asitis finalised.
com 40 Strategic report Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued New social media and online policy Responsibilities are set out in the Directors Report, where Social media continues to change the way Management of corporate we also publish our annual carbon footprint.
employees and businesses interact and socialresponsibility Despite this, we do aim to minimise our communicate.
To safeguard our brand, In September 2016, Tullett Prebon launched impact on the environment and to meet or reputation and employees when its Group Corporate Social Responsibility exceed any relevant legislative requirements communicating on social media or online policy statement internally.
This sets out the or codes of practice.
We will continue to at work, we have set clear rules and policies intentions of the Group in relation to equal improve our management of energy, on the use of social media and online opportunities, employee development, emissions, use of resources and waste, and communications by launching a social health, safety, welfare and the environment.
provide training and resources to support mediastrategy.
We have also produced The Group has also published a Code of this.
Having recently grown our business by a socialmedia best practice guide.
Conduct and values, to help guide acquisition, we will be reviewing our strategy employees in their business relationships.
Working with governments and regulators for reducing our environmental impact and We work with governments and regulatory Charitable giving policy will report more on this in due course.
authorities to maintain a detailed, up to We want to encourage all employees Tax and other social payments date understanding of any legislation and tosupport not-for-profit organisations The Group continues to maintain a low risk regulation that affects us and our customers, through volunteering and charitable giving.
The Group has earned to allow us to respond efficiently to change.
Therefore we launched our Charitable this low risk rating in each of the last eight Giving Policy this year, offering a range of years since HMRC started to disclose the Our values ways employees can make either monetary names of those companies achieving this Our culture is founded on shared values or in-kind donations.
TP ICAP is registered, and principles.
We have a defined set of include a matching scheme, where the regulated and publicly listed in the UK and values that underpin everything we do.
Groupwill match donations raised by an will continue to pay the right amount of tax We are known in the market for our honesty, employee, and one where the Group will at the right time.
integrity and excellence in the provision directly sponsor appropriate charitable of service toour clients.
Above all else, organisations introduced by an employee.
The Group made payments to tax authorities we respect ourclients and each other, We also run a Give As You Earn scheme for in the UK and the USA the main jurisdictions without bias.
In addition, in which it operates for 2016 of 215m we encourage employees to take up 2015: 193m, comprising corporation tax, Honesty volunteering opportunities to help approved premises taxes, employers social security Integrity not-for-profit organisations, or to provide payments, income taxes and social security Respect personal expertise freely in support.
As an paid on behalf of employees and VAT sales Excellence example, in October 2016, we sponsored taxes.
In addition, the Group makes further 20 employee volunteers to support NY Cares tax payments to the tax authorities in other Day for Schools a fundraising campaign tax jurisdictions in which it operates.
that brings together volunteers to help schools in New York City.
Our team organised HM Treasury has adopted the requirements book rooms, planted bulbs and helped paint set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital school facilities.
The legislation requires New safety system rolled out the Company to publish additional The safety and security of our employees information, in respect of the year ended is our top priority.
With this in mind, we 31 December 2016, by 31 December 2017. implemented an Emergency Notification This information will be available by this System, with Asia Pacific and EMEA date on TP ICAPs website, www.
collecting all emergency contact data, in partnership with Everbridge.
This is The 2016 Strategic Report, from page 2 to part of our Corporate Business Continuity page 40, has been reviewed and approved Management programme.
by the Board of Directors on 14 March 2017.
Environment John Phizackerley As an office-based business, we do not Chief Executive generate a large environmental impact.
Our main impact on the environment is the Andrew Baddeley emission of greenhouse gases as a result Chief Financial Officer of office-based business activities and from business travel.
Statistics relating to these TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 41 Case study Growing Data & Analytics Our Data & Analytics Division continues to grow and innovate, adding new products to meet clients changing needs as markets shift and regulation changes.
Link to our strategy on page 8 In 2016, we acquired the market research, We plan to increase the depth and breadth analytics and business consulting firm of products Burton-Taylor delivers to clients Burton-Taylor International, a globally and to continue to expand its services into recognised leader in the provision of unique new sectors, making Data & Analytics a key data and insight across key industries, part of TP ICAPs ongoing growth story.
including financial services, media and software.
Its in-depth reports cover financial market data, risk, exchange services, media intelligence and public relations, and have become trusted sources of information in these markets.
Burton-Taylors core values of independence, lack of bias and authoritative accuracy accord with those of TP ICAPs Data & Analytics division.
