STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION MANAGING RISKS & UPHOLDING ETHICS Good governance is incentivised through KPIs in our Group Scorecard affecting Executive Directors and employees variable, performance-related pay.
Assurance processes are now connected and consistent DEAR SHAREHOLDER acrossthe Group.
There is clarity on what needs to occur at Our approach to corporate governance and risk management each of the four tiers and annual planning is done in a way sets the tone, direction and policies that result in actions and thatminimises duplication and burden on the business, behaviour across our business, which in turn form the core whileproviding independent assessments where needed.
Our approach includes creating a culture of ethical behaviour aligned to our values and a robust Performance scorecards are now fully implemented.
These give Integrated Management System IMS to govern how the Senior Management a line of sight of performance on a regular business is run.
This includes the management of inherent basis.
A subset of the KPIs are both monitored regularly by Executive opportunities and risks and responsiveness to the concerns Management and have targets which are tied to remuneration.
ofour shareholders and broader stakeholders.
While significant progress has been made to embed the Good governance and risk management is incentivised by IMSwithin the organisation in 2016, there is further work to be KeyPerformance Indicators KPIs in our Group scorecard doneto reap its full benefits.
In 2017, the Executive team will affecting Executive Directors and employees variable, require the Corporate Centre functional heads to fully own their performance-related pay.
See pages 16 to 21 for more information.
standards and ensure full understanding and compliance in all parts of the business.
There are opportunities to further align The IMS,  Business Delivery Team and functional performance scorecards Tullow saw a major overhaul of its risk, assurance and to be more efficient.
Additionally, a challenge remains within the performance management processes in 2015 as part of the Major assurance process to demonstrate that activities conducted Simplification Project MSP.
This effort clarified accountabilities inthe businesses without Group oversight are fully effective fordecision making and identified roles for business delivery, across all parts of the business.
In late 2015, the Company launched an IMS to setout all mandatory policies, Company culture and ethical behaviour standards and the controls necessary to ensure that our activities As part of our commitment to managing the way we work ethically and associated risks are effectively managed.
In 2016, we began the process of embedding the IMS resulting in it becoming fully and legally, we continually look for ways to engage both internal operationalised by the year end.
and external stakeholders on our compliance standards as well asour Code of Ethical Conduct the Code.
During 2016, we One key change in approach that the IMS introduced was introduced an e-learning module covering the key areas of our aneffective and joined up Life Cycle Value Chain LCVC Code, including anti-corruption, which all Tullow staff including process that combined multiple legacy stage gate processes.
contractors and Board members were required to complete.
Thisenables our three Business Delivery Teams to progress Thecourse raised awareness of our Code and generated good business opportunities, with relevant corporate centre discussions among our teams.
By the end of the year, 97 per cent functional involvement in independent assurance of the workforce had completed this programme.
In addition, reviewsandkey decision points at each gate.
allTullow staff completed their annual compliance certification The risk management process is consistent across the Group, with the Code of Ethical Conduct and its related standards, with management and oversight from the field to the Board procedures and guidelines.
The certifications were assured by ofDirectors.
The Board of Directors carried out a robust ourGroup Ethics & Compliance function and it was signed off assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, byIanSpringett, our Chief Financial Officer, whohas executive includingthose that would threaten our business model, responsibility for ethics and compliance.
Principal risks are We are committed to upholding and maintaining our zero overseen by the Tullow Board of Directors.
A full report of thesestrategic, financial, operational and compliance risks, tolerance of bribery.
A key component of our anti-corruption including potential impactsand controls, mitigation actions programme is the internal control on managing expenditures andassurance, aresummarised on pages 44 to 53. related to public officials where such expenditures are related to Tullow business.
Any such expenditure must be reviewed by our 40 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Ethics & Compliance group prior to any We also engage to solicit input and ideas on engagement.
In 2016, weintroduced an different policy and performance issues, SPEAKING UP electronic register to automate this process informing our business plans, practices and and improve compliance monitoring processes to help identify and assess risks andassurance.
to business delivery and to address problems early on when they arise.
The Board, via our Ethics & Compliance Committee, oversees the development For example, in 2016 we engaged with a andmonitors the implementation and number of organisations, including the effectiveness of the Code and other World Bank Group, Millennium Water Companystandards in relation to good ethical Alliance, World Resources Institute and behaviour.
Our Audit Committee also reviews Human Rights Watch, to gain their the adequacy and security of the Companys perspective on water management issues.
Corruption 5 arrangements for staff to raise concerns, in Such discussions facilitate the development Fraud 19 confidence, about possible improprieties in of key Company policies and processes, HR 46 financial reporting or other matters.
In 2016, which in turn support internal discussions Supply chain 21 we recorded 91 speaking up cases 2015: on desired performance and allow a Speaking up cases 91 103, of which 18 were submitted via our considered and timely response to confidential, external and independent stakeholder expectations on critical issues.
reporting option provided by Safecall.
We investigated all reported Within the IMS, we have new standards and guidelines to support possible or actual breaches of our Code, following which three stakeholder engagement activities.
These are aimed at ensuring members of our workforce left the Group and had their contracts the business is suitably prepared for and resourced to build and terminated.
This is necessary to uphold good corporate manage effective relations with all external stakeholders, and that governance and ensure that we safeguard the integrity of our we carry out this engagement in a systematic way as part of risk Codeand that of the Company.
This has led to the development of a structured framework and approach to managing engagement Stakeholder engagement with national Government in Ghana, and to improvements in the Tullow works to maintain interactions with all stakeholders, cross-functional sharing of engagement outcomes in Kenya and such as governments at all levels, advocacy NGOs, Uganda.
Challenges remain in navigating through Kenyas multilaterals and communities.
There are genuine, inherent devolved government structure, with forthcoming national risks in failing to understand and respond to what is important elections, and in fully embedding the use of new stakeholder to our stakeholders.
These can translate into real business management tools andprocesses across the business.
and opportunity costs and impact our reputation.
Simon R Thompson We communicate factual information about our operations and Chairman ambitions to ensure our stakeholders understand our business and can ask questions and make decisions in an informed way.
7 February 2017 INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Frequency Seven times per year Board of Directors 11 members Four Executive Directors Seven non-executive Directors Five Board Committees Weekly Executive Directors Four Executive Directors run the business and are held accountable for its performance Weekly operations meeting Monthly performance Operating Committee management Includes the Chief Operating Officer, Business Delivery Team VPs, VP Commercial & Finance and VP Organisation Strategy & Effectiveness Day-to-day business Business Delivery Teams Corporate Agreed Group delivery and Business Units functions shared services www.
com 41 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 11 5 1.
ANGUS McCOSS CHAIRMAN CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER EXPLORATION DIRECTOR Simon Thompson age 57, British was appointed Ian Springett age 59, British is a Chartered Angus McCoss age 55, British was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2011 and as Accountant and was appointed to the Board of to the Board of Directors in December 2006 non-executive Chairman in January 2012.
Prior to joining Tullow, Ian following 21 years of wide-ranging exploration Simon worked for investment banks N M worked at BP for 23 years where he gained experience, working primarily with Shell in Rothschild and S. G. Warburg before joining extensive international oil and gas experience.
Africa, Europe, China, South America and the the Anglo American group in 1995, where Ian has held a number of senior positions at Middle East.
Angus held anumber of senior heheld a number of senior positions and BP, including vice president of BP Finance positions at Shell, including Regional Vice became an Executive Director in 2005.
Since and CFO for the United States, and also President of Exploration for the Americas and leaving Anglo American, he has served as served as a business unit leader in Alaska.
General Manager of exploration in Nigeria.
anon-executive Director of Amec Foster Heholds a PhD in structural geology.
Other directorships and offices Wheeler plc, AngloGold Ashanti Ltd, Ian was appointed a non-executive director Other directorships and offices NewmontMining Corporation and Sandvik AB.
ofG4S plc with effect from 1 January 2017.
Angus is a non-executive Director of Ikon Simon will step down from the Board following Science Limited and a member of the the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2017.
E&C advisory board of the industry-backed Other directorships and offices Energyand Geoscience Institute of the 4.
PAUL McDADE Simon is Chairman of 3i Group plc and a University of Utah.
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER non-executive Director of Rio Tinto plc.
He AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE isalso a member of the Advisory Council 6.
ANN GRANT OFFICERDESIGNATE atthe Institute of Business Ethics and a SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Paul McDade age 53, British was appointed member of the Advisory Panel on Business Ann Grant age 68, British was appointed as a to the Board of Directors in March 2006, and Sustainability at the International non-executive Director in May 2008 and Senior having joined Tullow in 2001.
Ann was Vice appointed Chief Operating Officer following Chairman Africa at Standard Chartered Bank N, R, EHS the Energy Africa acquisition in 2004, having from 2005 to 2014.
Her earlier career was as a previously managed Tullows UK gas business.
AIDAN HEAVEY Paul will be appointed Chief Executive Officer she worked at the Foreign and Commonwealth CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND on 26 April 2017, following Tullows Annual Office in London as Director for Africa and the CHAIRMAN DESIGNATE General Meeting.
An engineer with over Commonwealth.
From 2000 to 2005, Ann was Aidan Heavey age 63, Irish is the founder 25years experience, Paulhas worked the British High Commissioner to South Africa.
ofTullow Oil and has been Chief Executive invarious operational, commercial and After nine years service, Ann will retire from Officer since 1985.
He has played a key role management roles with Conoco, Lasmo theBoard following Tullows Annual General in Tullows development as a leading andERC.
He has broad international Meeting on 26 April 2017. independent oil and gas exploration and experience having worked in the UK North production group.
Aidan will be appointed Sea, Latin America, Africa and South East Other directorships and offices asnon-executive Chairman on 26 April 2017 Asia.
Paul holds degrees in civil engineering Ann is a trustee of the Overseas Development following Tullows Annual General Meeting.
Institute and a council member of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
Ann EHS is also a trustee of the Rift Valley Institute and chairs the Serious Music Trust.
E&C, A, N 42 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 10 7 6 8 9 7.
MIKE DALY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Tutu Agyare age 54, Ghanaian was appointed Anne Drinkwater age 61, British was Mike Daly age 63, British was appointed as a non-executive Director in August 2010. appointed as a non-executive Director in asa non-executive Director in June 2014 He is currently a Managing Partner at Nubuke July2012.
Annes appointment followed a following a 28-year career at BP where he Investments, an asset management firm long career at BP, where she held a number held a number of senior roles.
Most recently, focused solely on Africa, which he founded in of senior business and operations positions, he was Executive Vice President Exploration, 2007.
Previously, he had a 21-year career with including President and Chief Executive and a member of BPs Group executive team UBS Investment Bank, holding a number of Officer of BP Canada Energy Company, until January 2014. senior positions, most recently as the head President of BP Indonesia and Managing Other directorships and offices ofEuropean emerging markets, and served Director of BP Norway.
Mike is a visiting Professor at the University onthe Board of Directors.
Other directorships and offices of Oxford and a Senior Director at Macro Other directorships and offices Anne is a non-executive Director and the Advisory Partners.
Mike is also a non-executive Tutu is a director of the Nubuke Foundation, non-executive Deputy Chairman of Aker Director of CGG, an integrated geoscience a Ghanaian-based cultural and educational Solutions ASA Norway and is an oil and company based in France, whichis listed on foundation.
Tutu is also a senior adviser to gasadviser to the Government of the the Euronext and NewYorkStock Exchanges.
Power Africa, an initiative launched by the FalklandIslands.
A, N, EHS Obama administration to increase access EHS, A, R, N toelectricity in Africa.
JEREMY WILSON COMPANY SECRETARY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Kevin Massie was appointed Company 8.
STEVE LUCAS AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT Secretary on 1 January 2016.
Kevin was NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTORDESIGNATE previously Corporate Counsel and Deputy Steve Lucas age 62, British was appointed Jeremy Wilson age 52, British was Company Secretary at Tullow.
as a non-executive Director in March 2012. appointed as a non-executive Director in AChartered Accountant, Steve was Finance October 2013 following a 26-year career Director at National Grid plc from 2002 to atJ.
P. Morgan where he held a number 2010 and previously worked for 11 years at ofsenior positions, most recently Vice KEY Royal Dutch Shell and for six years at BG Chairman of the Energy Group.
Committee Chair Group, latterly as Group Treasurer.
Other directorships and offices A Audit Committee Other directorships and offices Jeremy is a non-executive Director of EHS EHS Committee Steve is a non-executive Director of Acacia JohnWood Group PLC UK and a director E&C Ethics and Compliance Committee Mining plc and Chairman of Ferrexpo plc.
ofThe Lakeland Climbing Centre Ltd and N Nominations Committee Steve is also a Director of Mauser Group BV.
R Remuneration Committee A, N, R, E&C R, N, A Audit Committee 69 Nominations Committee 74 EHS Committee 76 Remuneration Committee 80 www.
