46 Governance report Corporate governance report The Board allows Executive Directors to take Diversity Leadership up appointments with other companies The Board currently comprises two Executive provided the time involved is not too onerous Directors, five independent Non-executive and would not conflict with their duties here.
Over half the Board is therefore composed The terms of the Directors service of independent Non-executive Directors.
agreements and letters of appointment are summarised in the Report on Directors The Chairman, Rupert Robson, was Remuneration.
Non-executive Directors independent of the Company and contracts are for specific terms and subject management at appointment but, as to annual re-election by shareholders.
Chairman, is not classified as independent The service agreements and the letters of under the Code.
His other significant appointment are available for inspection Male Directors 75% commitments are noted in his biography during normal business hours at our Female Directors 25% on page 44. registered office, and at the AGM from Independence 15 minutes prior to the meeting until The Directors biographies demonstrate its conclusion.
the depth and breadth of experience and skill available to the Board.
Six of the The Nominations Committee conducts Directors including five of the Non-executive the search for Board candidates on merit Directors have extensive experience at against objective criteria, though with due senior levels in the financial services sector.
regard tothe benefits of diversity on the Two of the Directors are chartered Board, including gender.
We would like to accountants, one of whom was an audit increase the percentage of female Board partner in a major firm of accountants.
members as quickly as we are able.
However, The Chief Financial Officer has been we do have a fundamental obligation to CFO of several other companies.
ensure we appoint candidates who are best able to promote the success of the Company.
Independent Directors 71% There is a clearly defined and documented Our ability to appoint female Board members excluding the Chairman division of responsibilities between the depends on the recruitment, development Executive Directors 29% Chairman and the Chief Executive, reviewed and retention of women both within our annually.
The primary responsibility of the Group and throughout the business Chairman is to lead the Board.
Therefore responsibility of the Chief Executive is to run oursuccess in recruiting will be subject to the Groups operations, maintaining theavailability of suitable candidates.
effective management and developing and implementing strategy to maximise Additionally, and in light of the independent shareholder value.
Board evaluation outlined on page 48, the Nominations Committee will be searching for two new independent Non-executive Directors, one from the Americas and one from Asia Pacific, to join the Board during 2017.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 47 Length of Non-executive Directors tenures Independence of Directors The Board has determined that all of the Non-executive Directors are independent in character and judgement, and there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, any Directors judgement.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is responsible for discussing with shareholders any concerns they have failed to resolve through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director provides a sounding board for the Chairman and is available to act as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary.
Delivering the Boards strategy The GEC chaired by John Phizackerley is responsible for ensuring the successful implementation of our strategy, and will monitor and govern the commercial and financial Under 3 years 40% performance across the regions, global business lines and global corporate functions.
3 6 years 60% Afterarigorous and extensive review of the best initial structure for TP ICAP, and following the acquisition of ICAP on 30 December 2016, the composition of the GEC is as follows: Regional leadership Frits Vogels CEO ICAP EMEA, CEO TP ICAP EMEA James Potter CEO Tullett Prebon EMEA, Deputy CEO TP ICAP EMEA John Abularrage CEO Tullett Prebon Americas, CEO TP ICAP Americas Nick Deflora CEO ICAP Americas, Deputy CEO TP ICAP Americas Hugh Gallagher CEO ICAP APAC, CEO TP ICAP APAC Barry Dennahy CEO Tullett Prebon APAC, Deputy CEO TP ICAP APAC Business leadership Nicolas Breteau CEO, Tullett Prebon Global Broking David Casterton CEO, ICAP Global Broking Frank Desmond CEO, TP ICAP Data & Analytics Andrew Polydor CEO, TP ICAP Energy & Commodities Sam Ruiz CEO, TP ICAP Institutional Services Corporate leadership John Phizackerley Chief Executive and Executive Director Andrew Baddeley CFO and Executive Director Carrie Heiss Group Head of HR Mihiri Jayaweera Group Head of Strategy Giles Triffitt Group Chief Risk Officer Philip Price Group General Counsel and Head of Compliance Rebecca Shelley Group Head of Corporate Affairs www.
com 48 Governance report Corporate governance report continued Role of Board and committees The table on page 49 shows the Board and Effectiveness The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters committee attendance record during Board evaluation reserved to it for decisions, which you can the year.
At the December 2016 Board meeting, view at www.
we discussed the results of an independent The Company Secretary is responsible for Board and committee evaluation Beneath the Board is a structure setting ensuring the Board stays up to date with undertaken by Independent Audit.
While out the authority levels delegated to the key changes in legislation which affect the the Board evaluation confirmed that the individual Directors and senior management.
The appointment or removal of Board and its committees operate the Company Secretary is a matter reserved effectively, with all Directors contributing The Board has Audit, Remuneration, Risk for the Board.
to the success of the Group, it did identify and Nominations Committees, to which it two important areas for refinement and delegates some of its responsibilities.
Each All Directors have access to the services optimisation.
This is against the background committees Terms of Reference can be of the Company Secretary, and there are that TP ICAP is now the worlds largest viewed at www.
The Board procedures in place for taking independent interdealer broker.
We are not just reviews these terms each year to ensure professional advice at the Companys integrating two companies over the next they cover the relevant areas.
You can find expense if required.
The Company two to three years, thereby generating separate reports for the Nominations, Audit, maintains liability insurance for its substantial shareholder value, but making Risk and Remuneration Committees later in Directors and officers.
sure that by the end of that process we are this section.
Board activity during 2016 fit for purpose for the next decade.
We have The Board and its committees are provided During the year the main focus of Board determined that we need to enhance the with appropriate and timely information.
meeting discussion was the acquisition composition of the Board and adapt the All Directors receive written reports before of ICAP, which took up a substantial amount way in which we run Board meetings.
each meeting, helping them make informed of the Boards time.
The other key areas While we have made some progress on decisions on corporate and business issues.
discussed and reviewed by the Board in 2016 gender diversity, we have not on cultural or were as follows: All Board meetings are minuted and any international diversity.
For this reason we unresolved concerns are recorded in Chief Executives Reports will recruit two new Non-executive Directors, those minutes.
Chief Financial Officers Reports one from the Americas and one from Asia principal risks faced by the Company Pacific.
In doing this, we also need to achieve The Group has a comprehensive system reports of the activities of the Audit, a diversity of skills, adding more markets for financial reporting, subject to review by Risk, Remuneration and Nominations skills to those we have in risk, audit, internal and external audit.
Budgets, regular Committees technology and banking.
re-forecasts and monthly management delivery of the ten arrows accounts including KPIs, income statements, The challenge facing all financial services responsibilities and obligations under balance sheets and cash flows are prepared boards is to cope with the necessary the Listing Rules and Disclosure and at all levels of the business and the Board oversight of compliance and regulation at Transparency Rules reviews consolidated reports of these.
board level over and above the requirements conflicts of interest of normal corporate governance whilst corporate governance updates The Board has a schedule of eight meetings preserving an appropriate level of strategic investor relations reports a year to discuss the Groups ordinary course and financial dialogue.
So we need to refine Board evaluation of business.
Every effort is made to arrange the way we conduct Board business to allow culture, people, development, these meetings so all Directors can attend: explicitly for a greater degree of business successionplanning additional meetings are arranged as and strategic discussion as well as more approval of year end results, the Annual required.
Due to the acquisition of ICAP sectoral and competitive data insight and Report and Accounts, the AGM Circular there were additional meetings in 2016. discussion.
This will include a step up in the and dividends.
interaction of the Board with management and staff below Board level.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 49 3 Board and committee membership attendance record Audit Risk Remuneration Nominations 1,2 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors John Phizackerley 8 8 Andrew Baddeley appointed 13.05.16 5 5 Paul Mainwaring resigned 05.05.16 2 2 Non-executive Directors Rupert Robson 8 8 2 2 Angela Knight 8 8 4 4 5 5 2 2 Roger Perkin 8 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 Stephen Pull 8 8 5 5 2 2 Carol Sergeant 8 8 4 4 4 4 David Shalders 8 8 4 4 5 5 Notes: 1 Excludes meetings of committees of the Board appointed to complete routine business or business previously approved by the Board.
2 Eight scheduled Board meetings were held during the year.
The Board had various other meetings and calls primarily in connection with the acquisition of ICAP.
Due to the short notice of these meetings David Shalders and Carol Sergeant were each unable to attend one of these meetings.
They provided input to the Chairman in advance of the meeting so their views were known by other Board members.
3 Shows attendance of Board and committee members only.
Board development evaluate the performance of the individual sell sideanalysts.
During 2016 the Company Induction, professional development Executive Directors.
Similarly, the Senior recorded a webcast of its 2016 interim results and corporate awareness Independent Non-executive Director and presentation, which is also now available All Directors receive an induction on joining the other Non-executive Directors met to to download on the Companys website.
the Board, with relevant training available.
evaluate the Chairmans performance, There was particularly intense dialogue The Chairman is responsible for ensuring having first obtained feedback from the withcertain shareholders during the Directors continually update their skills Executive Directors.
They also considered recentformulation of the proposed new and knowledge, and familiarity with the the Chairmans commitment of time to the Remuneration Policy.
Company, so as to fulfil their role.
The Audit, Company in light of his other commitments, All Non-executive Directors are available Risk and Remuneration Committees receive as noted in his biography on page 44, to meet shareholders, if requested, and the regular briefings on relevant current and concluded that he fully satisfied his Board is regularly updated on shareholder developments.
The Board is kept informed obligations to the Company.
All provided feedback and in particular any specific of any material shareholder correspondence, appropriate feedback following these comments from institutional shareholders.
broker reports on the Company and sector, meetings.
The Chairman has also provided institutional voting agency recommendations feedback on performance to the For future dividends, the Company has in and documents reflecting current Non-executive Directors.
place a facility for payments to be made shareholder thinking.
In addition, members by CREST.
of the GEC make presentations to the Board.
Relations with Annual General Meeting The Non-executive Directors take advantage shareholders The Board uses the AGM to communicate of relevant conferences, seminars and The Board recognises the importance with investors and welcomes their training events, and receive training ofcommunicating with shareholders.
We send notice of the AGM materials from the Company and other TheCompany website, www.
com, and related papers to shareholders at professional advisers.
They are also able to provides information for shareholders least 20 working days before the meeting.
meet members of the management teams andprospective investors on the The Chairman aims to ensure all Directors, regularly, and periodically visit the Groupsactivities, results, products including chairs of the committees of the Companys international offices, usually andrecent developments.
Board, are available at AGMs to answer in connection with other activities.
The proxy We enjoy regular dialogue with institutional votes cast on each resolution proposed at Performance evaluation investors, fund managers and analysts, general meetings are disclosed at those This year, we evaluated the effectiveness which includes providing presentations meetings.
To encourage shareholder and commitment of individual Directors of the results announcements, and also participation, shareholders whose shares to identify the need for any training or meetings on request.
The Company has are held on the CREST system are offered development.
Over the last three months the held a number of investor roadshows in the the facility to submit their proxy votes Chairman met the Non-executive Directors UK, US, France and Germany as well as through CREST.
in the absence of the Executive Directors to individual meetings with shareholders and www.
