44 Governance report Board of Directors Rupert Robson 1 John Phizackerley 2 Andrew Baddeley 3 Angela Knight 4 Roger Perkin 5 Stephen Pull 6 Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Rupert Robson was appointed to the John Phizackerley was appointed to Andrew Baddeley was appointed to Angela Knight was appointed to the Board in Roger Perkin was appointed to the Board Stephen Pull was appointed to the Board Board in January 2007 and to Chairman theBoard and as Chief Executive theBoard and as Chief Financial Officer September 2011.
She is a member of the Audit, in July 2012.
He is Chairman of the Audit in September 2011.
He is Chairman of the in March 2013.
He is Chairman of the inSeptember 2014. in May2016.
Committee anda member of the Risk and Remuneration Committee and a member Nominations Committee.
From 1986 to 2009 he held various positions He qualified as a Chartered Accountant in She was formerly the Chief Executive of He has held a number of senior roles in in Lehman Brothers including Head of Equity 1987 and as a Chartered Tax Adviser in 1990, Energy UK until 31 December 2014, the Chief He was a partner at EY and spent 40 years He was Chairman of Corporate Broking at financial institutions, most recently Research, Head of Equity Sales in Europe, specialising in the taxation of insurance Executive of the British Bankers Association in the accounting profession before retiring Nomura between 2008 and 2011 following Chairman of Charles Taylor plc, Global Head of Pan-European Cash Equities, business while working for EY and then PwC.
from 2007 to 2012 and the Chief Executive of from the firm in 2009.
Hewasformerly a its acquisition of Lehman Brothers Europe Non-executive Director of London Metal Co-Head of European Equities and Chief In 1998 he joined General Re, where he the Association of Private Client Investment Non-executive Director atThe Evolution for whom he worked from 2002 as Head of Exchange Holdings Ltd and Non-executive Administrative Officer, Europe and Middle served in a number of roles including, latterly, Managers and Stockbrokers from 1997 to Group plc until its acquisition in December Corporate Broking, and then as Chairman Director of OJSC Nomos Bank, Global Head, East.
He remained with the firm following as Chief Financial Officer of its UK and 2006.
She was also formerly the Member of 2011, Friends Life Group until its acquisition of Corporate Broking.
He has also held a Financial Institutions Group, Corporate the Nomura acquisition in 2009 and held Ireland operations.
In 2007 Andrew was Parliament for Erewash from 1992 to 1997, in April 2015 and Nationwide Building number of other senior roles in the City, Investment Banking and Markets at HSBC a number of positions, including Chief appointed Group Finance Director at Atrium, serving as a Treasury Minister from 1995 to Society until July 2016. including Managing Director of Corporate and Head of European Insurance, Investment Operating Officer of Nomura International and in 2013, he joined Brit Insurance as 1997.
Her previous Non-executive Director Broking at Merrill Lynch and Head of UK He is a Non-executive Director of Electra Banking at Citigroup Global Markets.
and Chief Executive Officer of Nomura Bank ChiefFinancial Officer.
He has considerable appointments include Lloyds TSB plc, Equity Sales at Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
Private Equity plc and AIB Group UK plc.
International, becoming Chief Executive experience in the implementation of new Scottish Widows, LogicaCMG plc, Transport He is also Chairman of EMF Capital He is a trustee of two charities, Chiddingstone Officer of Nomura International plc in 2011. financial reporting processes and systems, for London, Port of London Authority and Partners, Sanne Group plc, a Non-executive Castle and The Conservation Volunteers.
Director of Savills plc and a Governor of Sherborne School.
Andrew is a Non-executive Director at Angela was appointed as a Non-executive Cobalt Insurance Holdings Limited, where Director of Taylor Wimpey Plc on 1 November hechairs the Audit Committee, a Director of 2016 and Arbuthnot Latham & Co Ltd in Ponos Consulting Ltd and is aGovernor at October 2016.
She is also Chair ofTilman Walthamstow Hall School.
Brewin Dolphin and the Office of Tax Simplification.
David Shalders 7 Carol Sergeant 8 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director David Shalders was appointed to the Carol Sergeant CBE was appointed to the Board in February 2014 and is a member Board in July 2015.
Shechairs the Boards of the Remuneration, Nominations and Risk Committee andisalso a member of Risk Committees.
the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is Group Operations & Technology She was a Non-executive Director at Secure Director at Willis Towers Watson plc, Trust Bank plc until December 2015.
She has responsible for IT, operations, real estate enjoyed a distinguished City career, holding and change management functions.
He various senior positions, including Head of joined Willis Towers Watson from the Royal Major Banks Supervision at the Bank of Bank of Scotland Group where he served England, Managing Director at the Financial for over a decade in senior operations and Services Authority and Chief Risk Officer at IT roles, most recently as Global Chief Lloyds Banking Group.
Operating Officer for Global Banking and She is the Chair of the Standards Policy and Markets.
He also led the divisions regulatory Strategy Committee of the British Standards response to Basel 3.
Prior to that, he led the Institute, Trustee of the Lloyds Register Groups integration with ABN Amro and Foundation and Chair of the UK whistle held roles as Head of London and Asia blowing charity, Public Concern at Work.
Operations and Head of Derivative She is currently a Non-executive Director Operations for NatWest.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 45 Rupert Robson 1 John Phizackerley 2 Andrew Baddeley 3 Angela Knight 4 Roger Perkin 5 Stephen Pull 6 Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Rupert Robson was appointed to the John Phizackerley was appointed to Andrew Baddeley was appointed to Angela Knight was appointed to the Board in Roger Perkin was appointed to the Board Stephen Pull was appointed to the Board Board in January 2007 and to Chairman theBoard and as Chief Executive theBoard and as Chief Financial Officer September 2011.
He is Group Operations & Technology She was a Non-executive Director at Secure 7 Director at Willis Towers Watson plc, Trust Bank plc until December 2015.
She has 6 responsible for IT, operations, real estate enjoyed a distinguished City career, holding 4 and change management functions.
He various senior positions, including Head of 5 joined Willis Towers Watson from the Royal Major Banks Supervision at the Bank of 3 Bank of Scotland Group where he served England, Managing Director at the Financial for over a decade in senior operations and Services Authority and Chief Risk Officer at IT roles, most recently as Global Chief Lloyds Banking Group.
