54 Governance report Report of the Risk Committee O verall I can report good progress onstrengthening the risk policies andinfrastructure, and preparation for the acquisition of ICAP.
Carol Sergeant Chairman, Risk Committee As part of our on-going commitment to the Chairmans Statement strengthening of our governance, the length Dear shareholder and format of the management information As Chairman of the Risk Committee the reviewed by the Committee has been subject Committee, I am pleased to introduce this to review and improvement: additionally report which sets out how the Committee a new policy framework has been discharged its responsibilities during 2016. implemented and the Committee has The Committees role is not to eliminate challenged and approved 17 new Group risk, but rather to consider and recommend Policy Statements, beneath which sit all The Committees role to the Board the Groups risk appetite, risk of the Groups policies.
principles and policies such that the risks isnot to eliminate risk, including reputational risk are reasonable We have also approved the adoption of a but rather to consider and appropriate for the Group, and can be fullytransparent process for risk acceptance managed and controlled within the limits of where mitigation is not economically or and recommend to the the financial, human and systems resources practically viable.
As in 2016 I will continue Board the Groups risk of the Group: and finally, to ensure the to request that leaders of our business attend adherence to these principles and thresholds.
appetite... such that the Committee to demonstrate strong risk control measures and effective execution in risksare reasonable During 2016, in addition to chairing the each business.
Committee, I have attended key meetings andappropriate ofthe Executive Risk Committee and Overall I can report good progress on for theGroup and Technology Risk Committee, and travelled strengthening the risk policies and can be managed toSingapore, Hong Kong and New York to infrastructure, and preparation for the review the regional risk functions and successful acquisition of ICAP.
RiskCommittees and I was satisfied thatthese committees are fit for purpose.
Carol Sergeant Iplan to continue attending Executive Risk Chairman Committees fromtime to time, and report Risk Committee onany findings to the Committee.
14 March 2017 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 55 Composition The Committee receives comprehensive Compliance Carol Sergeant chaired the Committee reporting on all of the Groups main The Committee receives regular Compliance during the year.
The other members of risks and has continued to apply particular updates from the Group General Counsel the Committee during the year were Roger focus to the key risk issues faced by the and Head of Compliance.
We have reviewed Perkin and David Shalders.
All members organisation, and has undertaken the work undertaken to ensure compliance of the Committee are Independent additional work in these areas.
with current regulatory requirements and Non-executive Directors.
The Committee lessons learned from legacy issues.
The ICAP acquisition Chairman has recent and relevant risk The Committee has continued to review The Committee authorised the introduction experience.
The Chairman of the Committee and challenge the risks associated with of both a new trade surveillance system, and is also a member of the Audit Committee.
the acquisition, as well as the plans to a unified communications surveillance tool.
The Chairman, the Executive Directors, the align the risk appetite and policy framework Other operational risk Companys external and internal auditors, of the respective organisations.
A combined Operational risk accounts for the and other senior risk management and business activity review was presented to majority of the Companys risk exposure.
finance personnel attend Committee the Committee, considering the business The Committee receives extensive data meetings by invitation.
currently undertaken by ICAP but not by including information on loss events and Tullett Prebon.
The Committee has Terms of Reference near-misses with a view to ensuring that commissioned a review of the control The Terms of Reference of the Committee appropriate corrective actions and environment of business activities which are are available on the Companys website, preventative measures are put in place.
new to the Group for review and challenge www.
The Committee has also reviewed and during the second quarter of 2017. challenged the output of the Global Risk Work of the Risk Committee during 2016 People and culture and Control Self-Assessment process.
Preparation for the acquisition of ICAP The Committee has challenged and has been a key feature of the work of approved initiatives to enhance conduct and the Committee this year, and as such culture: these include Leadership training for it has approved the Companys target broker Desk Heads and policy, conduct and operating models for Risk and Compliance, behaviour awareness programmes 5 things recommended the appointment of the that you need to know.
Chief Risk Officer, and provided approval in principle for the Groups risk Cyber security governance structure.
During 2016 the Committee received an independent external review of the Groups The Committee routinely asks business cyber security arrangements.
The Committee leaders to present an overview of their risk also challenged deep dive presentations management practices: during 2016 HR, from the Group Chief Information Officer on Compliance and Technology leaders were this subject, which remains a focus both for challenged by the Committee on this subject.
the Committee and TP ICAPs Executive.
Further such business reviews are scheduled for 2017.
Deep dive presentations on the risks associated with key business issues such as the exchange give-up process and the prime brokerage business were also reviewed and challenged by the Committee in 2016. www.
