UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Accountability Audit Committee Report Through its annual cycle of work, the Audit Committee concluded that appropriate risk management and internal control systems have been in operation during the year, and that taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
Audit Committee report Membership John McConnell i ii Alan Gillespie Greg Lock Terry Neill Trynka Shineman Number of meetings Four Reporting The Audit Committee Chair formally reports to the Board after each Committee meeting Attendees by invitation Chairman, CEO, CFO, Group Company Secretary, Group Financial Controller and Head of Internal Audit, External Auditor i Chairman of the Committee ii Has recent and relevant financial experience controls.
Further details on the risk review process Dear Shareholder are set out in the Strategic Report on page 40.
I am pleased to report on the key activities and Through its annual cycle of work, the Audit Committee present our Audit Committee report for 2016.
The concluded that appropriate risk management and Audit Committee, which consists of five independent internal control systems have been in operation during Non-Executive Directors, is an essential element of the year.
Having had oversight of the comprehensive UBMs governance framework, to which the Board review conducted by the management team, described has delegated oversight of a number of duties, as set on page 71, the Committee was satisfied that the 2016 out in the Committees terms of reference, available Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are at www.
com investor corporate-governance fair, balanced and capable of being understood by audit-committee.
shareholders and contains all of the necessary information to allow our shareholders to assess The Committee has worked throughout the year to UBMs performance, business model and strategy.
fulfil its objective to ensure that the Board can be satisfied that corporate reporting requirements are met and risk management and internal control principles are applied appropriately, and that the Company maintains an appropriate relationship with EY, its external auditor.
John McConnell Chairman, Audit Committee The Committee has continued to challenge and support management in the strengthening and expansion in scope of the Groups risk management policies and procedures.
In addition, the Committee has continued to monitor broader market conditions, including the impact of the EU Referendum, the risks and challenges relevant to the Group and the potential impact of these on financial reporting and 70 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Membership and Attendance The Committee is comprised entirely of independent NonPurpose Executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that having recently held a FTSE 250 CFO position, John McConnell has The terms of reference set out the Committees duties recent and relevant financial experience.
All Committee to assist the Board in undertaking its responsibility members have competence in the sectors in which the to monitor the integrity of the financial statements Company operates, as set out in the Board biographies of the Company, oversee the adequacy of the Groups on pages 58 to 59, and in the skills matrix on page 63. financial controls and systems of risk management and internal control, and monitor the effectiveness The Committee met four times in 2016, with one meeting and independence of both the internal and external specifically dedicated to risk management.
The Board delegates responsibility to also held private sessions with the external and internal the Audit Committee to help ensure that financial auditors without management being present.
In addition, reporting processes are robust and overseen with John McConnell met separately with the CFO, Group Company appropriate independent financial expertise Secretary, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner periodically throughout the and challenge.
year and ahead of most Committee meetings.
The agendas for the meetings follow a rolling annual calendar.
The CFO, challenged the appropriate classification and completeness members of the finance team and the Group Company of the top ten risks in each division, and recommended the Secretary assist the Chairman in the preparation of the principal risks to the Board for approval, as disclosed in the annual agenda and in making sure that the Committee Strategic Report on pages 42 to 44: receives information and papers on a timely basis.
reviewed and constructively challenged management in its An annual review of the performance of the Committee presentation of the results of a project to assess potential is conducted each year as part of the wider effectiveness venue contract risk and plans to reduce and mitigate this: review of the Board and its Committees.
More detail on reviewed the implementation of the risk policy adopted in the process followed during 2016 can be found in the 2015, and the structure and plans for the Groups enhanced Effectiveness section of this Corporate Governance Report, risk management processes for 2017, noting that the on page 67. internal audit plan for 2017 would be aligned to areas of highlighted risk: Activities During The Year evaluated the scope and findings of Internal Audit activities Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment as described on page 74: The Committee has considered whether the 2016 Annual considered the external audit plan scope and methodology, Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and capable of being particularly considering whether it is aligned to areas of understood by shareholders.
In order to make this financial statement risk and or less mature control assessment, the Committee has: environments.
maintained oversight of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts reviewed reports from the external auditor on the Groups process: financial reporting and internal financial control been provided with regular updates, and received assurance environment, included any issues identified in the course of continuing verification to ensure consistency, of their work and observations on controls and control impartiality and balance throughout the document: weaknesses and, where appropriate, satisfied itself that reviewed and challenged managements assessment of there was an appropriate response from management.
items included in the financial statements and prominence given to those items, with particular attention paid to the The Audit Committee concluded that the Companys internal use of Alternative Performance Measures: and control and risk management framework was appropriate and that there have been no significant control issues or failings considered the matters discussed at Board and Committee during the year.
meetings during the year and that these are addressed appropriately in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial reporting The Committee reviews the Companys financial statements, Risk management and internal control including the Annual Report and Accounts and half-year The Committee, on behalf of the Board, monitors and reviews results.
Key areas of focus in relation to financial reporting the Companys internal control and risk management during the year included: framework, reporting on their effectiveness.
This monitoring review of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting includes all material controls, including financial, operational policies and practices, including the use of exceptional items and compliance controls, assessing that any corrective action and application of the exceptional items accounting policy: is taken where necessary, and that systems are fit for purpose.
During the year, the Committee: consideration of material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where there has been reviewed divisional risk maps and accompanying deep-dive discussion with the external auditor: presentations from management in EMEA and the Americas and, in December 2015, Asia on the top ten risks and review and continuous improvement of the financial control associated mitigation activities in each of those divisions: systems environment to ensure robustness in reporting: 71 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Accountability Audit Committee Report Financial reporting continued The Committee spends time debating these areas of judgement with the requisite support from management review of the quality of narrative reporting, clarity and and external advisers.
At the July meeting, for example, relevance of disclosures and adherence to applicable the Committee reviewed the use of exceptional items and compliance and governance best practice: and revisited the Policy and its application in recent years.
compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant Further detail on significant matters considered is set out financial and governance reporting requirements.
Other areas of judgement routinely considered and discussed The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by at Committee meetings include: management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures recognition and utilisation of provisions, in particular tax for key matters and estimates have been included in the and restructuring: and financial statements.
In reaching this conclusion, the the amounts charged as exceptional items and analysis of Committee considered reports and analysis prepared by the significant components of each item.
management and debated the assumptions.
The Committee also considered detailed reporting from and, had discussions with, the external auditor.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, significant matters that the Committee has considered in relation to the financial statements are set out below: Matter Considered How the matter was addressed The Committee reviewed management reports on the disposal calculation and Disposal of PR Newswire recognition of warranty provisions.
The Committee challenged management The disposal of PRN in June was a significant milestone for the to ensure that the potential liabilities arising from the warranty period Group and there were a number of matters considered by the contained within the Sale and Purchase Agreement have been appropriately Committee in this regard.
The presentation of the gain on disposal as an exceptional These matters related to the calculation of the accounting item and classification as a discontinued operation was discussed and gain on disposal, classification of disposal costs, recognition agreed taking into consideration reports from the external auditor.
of warranties and indemnities and presentation of PRN results as discontinued operations.
The Committee reviewed management reports setting out the policy and Taxation approach to measuring and recognising deferred tax assets and liabilities.
There are significant deferred tax assets and liabilities held on The Committee considered the impact of the PRN disposal on the recognition the UBM balance sheet and also unrecognised deferred tax of US tax losses and agreed that the judgements regarding the recognition of assets in respect of losses.
Management must make Luxembourg losses remained appropriate.
The Committee also considered judgements based on forecasts to determine the appropriate reports from the external auditor as to the appropriateness of managements basis for recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities methodology, judgements and consistency of application.
which impact the effective tax rate.
The Committee reviewed management reports on the preliminary acquisition Acquisition Accounting accounting for Allworld, BJI, CMI and The Battery Show.
The Committee also Certain transactions require management to make considered the reports from the external auditor as to the appropriateness judgements as to the identification and valuation of intangible and consistency of managements valuation approach and judgements.
assets, with small changes in assumptions making a significant difference to the value of assets recorded.
The Committee reviewed managements report on the annual impairment Goodwill Impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill.
Goodwill is an area of focus for the Committee given the materiality of the Groups goodwill balances.
The judgements In particular, the Committee challenged certain assumptions applied in the in relation to goodwill largely relate to the assumptions impairment review including terminal growth rates, specifically with regard applied in calculating the value in use of the Cash Generating to OMS related CGUs, and the relevant discount rates.
The Committee also considered reports from the external auditor on their findings.
The Committee reviewed the disposal calculations including consideration Disposal Accounting received, value of assets disposed and associated costs relating to the In addition to PRN, the Group has completed a number of disposals of the Electronics media portfolio, Light Reading and Ecobuild.
investment and asset disposals during the year, the The Committee considered the treatment of the disposal gains and losses as accounting of which, is specific to the terms of individual sale exceptional items in line with the exceptional items policy.
agreements and recognising exceptional gains and losses.
72 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Activities during the year: Audit Committee calendar Meeting Key items considered 2015 results and financial statements Internal Audit Year-end accounting matters and judgements Business Continuity Plan BCP update Going concern review Internal Auditor Report February 2016 Tax provisions Risk The draft Annual Report and Accounts Consideration of Long Term Viability Statement Consideration of fair, balanced and LTVS for 2015 reporting, including: understandable statement Review of severe but plausible scenarios PRN disposal accounting including Modelling outcomes of the selected scenarios reporting and disposal costs External Audit 2015 Audit Results Report Approval of non-audit fees 2016 half year results Risk Accounting matters and judgements Group Risk Maps Going concern review Americas Risk Review Deep Dive July 2016 Exceptional items accounting Policy External Audit Internal Audit Interim Review Report Business Continuity Plan update Approval of non-audit fees Internal Auditor Report Private session held between the Committee and the External Auditors Risk External Audit Venue contract risk review 2016 Audit Plan and Audit Fee EMEA Risk Review Deep Dive Consideration of the report into the FRCs Revised September 2016 Ethical Standards and non-audit services LTVS including determination of severe but Risk Focused Meeting plausible scenarios for 2016 reporting Consideration of audit tender 2016 Financial Reporting Update Internal Audit Annual Report and Accounts process and 2017 Internal Audit Plan planning Internal Audit report December 2016 Year end accounting matters and judgements, Governance and internal control framework including: Private session held between the Committee and goodwill impairment the Head of Internal Audit disposal accounting External Audit exceptional items Audit Update Report Tax accounting update Approval of non-audit fees Risk Audit tender planning and process Group risk maps Review of LTVS scenario modelling Draft 2016 LTVS Other Annual Report draft disclosures 73 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Accountability Audit Committee Report Internal audit Key responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Head of Internal Audit reports to each meeting of the Committee.
During the year, the Committee has: Review of the integrity of the financial reviewed and evaluated Internal Audit reports covering statements, the accounting policies the financial, compliance, operational and IT reviews undertaken during the year, including reports on cyberapplied, whether significant judgements security and reviews of the controls operated by major are sound and monitoring of compliance external service providers, and discussed or challenged with statutory and listing requirements.
whether actions or changes to process were required as a result of the findings: considered the common control themes identified across Review of the effectiveness of the Groups the Group and plans being put in place to continuously financial reporting, internal controls and monitor and assess these: risk management framework.
considered any fraudulent activity and or identified control issues to assess whether they demonstrated a significant failing, or weaknesses in internal controls: Advise the Board whether the Committee continuously monitored the effectiveness of the internal believes the Annual Report and Accounts, audit activities and evaluated this in consideration of the taken as a whole, are fair, balanced scope of the 2017 Internal Audit Plan: and understandable and provides the reviewed the adequacy of UBMs internal audit resourcing information necessary for shareholders in the light of new acquisitions undertaken by the Group: and to assess the Companys performance, reviewed, considered and concluded upon an assessment business model and strategy.
of the effectiveness of Internal Audit as part of the wider Board Effectiveness Review described on page 67. Review of the scope, resources, results In addition, the anti-malpractice policy, which forms part of and effectiveness of the internal audit the Groups Code of Business Conduct, provides employees function and the annual internal audit with an independent and confidential whistleblowing service to raise concerns about any form of malpractice fraud, programme.
corruption, dishonesty or other irregularities where they do not feel comfortable raising the matter with local Oversee the relationship with the external management or are not satisfied with the local management response.
This service is provided by Safecall, an independent auditor, the scope of external audit work third party provider.
A summary of incidents, underlying and the auditors effectiveness, ensuring investigations and actions undertaken is provided to the the auditors independence, monitoring Committee for review on a regular basis.
compliance with the policy on non-audit External audit fees and considering the findings of the The Committee has considered the Companys compliance with external auditor.
the UK Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order and The Statutory Auditors and Third Country Ensure that the audit services contract is Auditors Regulations 2016.
UBM is a Jersey incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
put out to tender at appropriate intervals, It is UK tax resident and has designated the UK as its Home compare the quality and effectiveness Member State for the purpose of the Disclosure and of the services provided by the external Transparency Rules.
Although UBM is therefore not a Public Interest Entity1, it is intended that the Company complies with auditor with those of other audit firms, the spirit of legislation applicable to UK incorporated and oversee the selection process.
companies, including the Companies Act 2006 and related Statutory Instruments and as a public interest entity for Make recommendations to the Board purposes of the FRCs Revised Ethical Standards 2016. on external auditor remuneration and appointment or re-appointment.
1 As defined by Article 2 13 Directive 2006 43 EC 74 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements External audit continued content, quality of insights and added value of their reports: As a result of the legislative reforms, companies are required fulfilment of the agreed external audit plan: to put their audit out for tender every ten years with a robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in maximum of one second ten year audit term with the their handling of key accounting and audit judgements: incumbent auditor after carrying out a full audit tender, to the interaction between management and the auditor: give advance notice of any tendering plans, and to comply provision of non-audit services as set out in this Report: and with certain restrictions and undertakings relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
discussions relating to the performance of the auditor with UBM management.
The Committee has observed that a mandatory audit firm rotation would not be required until 2023, having held a The Committee recommended to the Board that EY be re-tender of the audit in 2009 and with mandatory audit proposed for reappointment at the 2017 AGM.
partner rotation having taken place in 2012 and during 2017.
However the Committee has determined that an audit tender Audit and non-audit services process for the 31 December 2018 year-end audit will be To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the undertaken in 2017 and has concluded that the Company external auditor, a formal procedure is in place to manage the complies with the applicable legislation.
Non-audit services carried out by EY in the year comprised tax compliance and advisory During the year the Committee has work, VAT advice and assistance in the preparation of reviewed and agreed the scope of the work undertaken by overseas statutory accounts.
UBMs external auditor: The Committee was satisfied that the objectivity and evaluated the independence and objectivity of the independence of EY was not in any way impaired by the external auditor: nature of the non-audit services undertaken during the year, reviewed the impact of the FRCs Revised Ethical Standards by the level of non-audit fees charged, or by any other factors 2016 on the Group in relation to non-audit services or circumstances.
Audit fees payable to EY during the year provided by EY, and approved the required changes to the were 1.7m 2015: 1.6m, and non-audit fees were 0.3m UBM non-audit services policy: and 2015: 1.6m.
An analysis of the fees is provided in Note 3.3 approved the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to to the financial statements.
EY for the audit of the 2016 financial statements.
In the light of the FRCs publication of its Revised Ethical External auditor Standards 2016 and adoption of the EUs list of prohibited EY has been UBMs external auditor since 2002 and was non-audit services, the Committee approved changes to reappointed following a tender process in 2009.
The UBMs non-audit services policy, the details of which are Committee met with the external auditor after the July set out below.
Committee meeting without management present.
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee meets with the external Non-audit services policy auditor on a regular basis to further ensure open dialogue and feedback, and facilitate effective and timely communication The objective of the non-audit services policy is to ensure that the between the external auditor and the Committee.
provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
All services provided by the external An annual review is carried out of the external auditors auditor other than the audit itself are regarded as non-audit services.
independence and audit process effectiveness.
In assessing its independence, the Committee received written confirmation The non-audit services policy prescribes that any non-audit that, in EYs professional judgement, the external auditor is assignment by the Companys external auditor is pre-approved by independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and the Audit Committee, unless the proposed service is both expected professional requirements and that the objectivity of the to cost less than 20,000, up to a cumulative limit of 85,000 audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
and falls within a service category already approved by the Audit Committee.
All non-audit services are reported to the Committee at its next meeting.
Audit quality is assessed throughout the year by reference to the quality of the reports received by the Committee, the calibre of senior members of the audit team and the level of The Policy was updated during the year to prohibit tax services challenge provided to management.
Emphasis was placed on being supplied by the external auditor, initially in all EU countries how EYs planned audit approach to changes in the business from 1 January 2017 and extending to all UBM locations from would be developed.
The Committee monitored the conduct and effectiveness All fees paid to the external auditor for non-audit services are of the external auditor during the year, considering its continuously monitored, to ensure that Group non-audit services independence and objectivity, through its own observations fees do not exceed 70% of the average of Group statutory audit fee and interactions with the external auditor, and with regard over a rolling three year period.
The first measurable period will be from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019. to the following: experience and expertise of the auditor in their direct communication with, and support to, the Committee: 75
