UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Leadership Nominations Committee Report The Committee has a responsibility to ensure that there is integrity in the Board appointment process, balancing the requirements of the business and expertise required with a transparent recruitment process.
Nominations Committee Membership Dame Helen Alexander1 Alan Gillespie Greg Lock John McConnell Mary McDowell Terry Neill Trynka Shineman David Wei Number of meetings Four Reporting Nominations Committee meetings are scheduled to take place shortly before Board meetings.
The Chairman reports to the Board.
Attendees by invitation CEO, Group Company Secretary, executive search agencies as appropriate 1 Chairman of the Committee Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present our Nominations Committee The key focus of the Committee during 2016 report for 2016.
The Committee has continued to has been the ongoing development of the Board ensure an appropriate balance of experience and succession plan, with a number of Directors abilities on the Board.
This enables it to support approaching their ninth year on the Board, as and constructively challenge management in the illustrated opposite.
During the year, Trynka implementation and development of the Events First Shineman and David Wei were appointed as strategy.
The Committees terms of reference are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee wholeheartedly supports the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander The Committee has had a busy year as it Review into improving gender balance in FTSE considered the replacement of Pradeep Kar, who Leadership, and I am pleased to report that the stepped down having served nine years as a recommended voluntary disclosures are set out Non-Executive Director.
I would like to take this on page 67 in the Effectiveness section of the opportunity to thank Pradeep for his significant Governance Report.
Dame Helen Alexander Chairman, Nominations Committee 62 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements familiarity with running a global group and operating with joint ventures: Purpose knowledge and understanding of the Asian market: and customer facing experience.
To ensure that the Board is functioning effectively and, in supporting this objective, to regularly review the size For each of the appointments MWM Consulting was hired to and composition of the Board, giving full consideration search for suitable candidates.
to succession planning for Directors and to support management in considering the need for a suitable talent Trynka Shineman pipeline to meet the future needs of the Group.
A longlist of candidates was produced and reviewed by the Committee, and, following further consultation with MWM Consulting and preliminary discussions by the Chairman with potential candidates, the shortlist was developed.
Appointments during the year All members of the Committee met with the shortlisted During the year, the Committee recommended to the Board candidates, and it was agreed that Trynkas background in the appointment of Trynka Shineman and David Wei as marketing for online global businesses and strong executive Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee has a responsibility experience would be invaluable to the Group.
In February 2016 to ensure that there is integrity in the Board appointment the Committee formally recommended that the Board appoint process, balancing the requirements of the business and Trynka to the Board, Audit and Nominations Committees.
expertise required with a transparent recruitment process.
David Wei The Committee discussed the key attributes required for In July 2016, MWM Consulting and Sciteb, a specialist search the continuing development of the collective skills of the and strategy firm focusing on Asia and China, were engaged Board and agreed detailed specifications for the new Nonin the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director.
agencies were used initially to ensure a larger pool of diverse candidates for a potential long list.
In October 2016, after In each case, the skills matrix set out below was reviewed following a similar process to that followed earlier in the year, to provide a first step in forming the role specification.
The the Committee recommended to the Board that David Wei be matrix sets out the balance of skills on the Board and helps to appointed to the Board, Nominations and Remuneration identify any areas where a skills gap could potentially develop Committees.
It was agreed that Davids knowledge of the in the near term.
Qualities that the Committee also felt would Asian market, specifically of China, would be of great value be required included: to UBM.
entrepreneurial experience: Neither Sciteb nor MWM Consulting have any other marketing, technology and systems knowledge: connection with the Company.
a serving CEO: Analogous Finance Year Sector Digital Emerging Sitting Capital Operational Consumer People and Board skills matrix Nationality Appointed Content Plc NED Technology US Markets Executive Markets experience marketing Transformation Dame Helen Alexander 2012 Chairman Tim Cobbold 2014 CEO Marina Wyatt 2015 CFO Alan Gillespie 2008 Senior Independent Director Greg Lock 2010 Non-Executive Director John McConnell 2014 Non-Executive Director Mary McDowell 2014 Non-Executive Director Terry Neill 2009 Non-Executive Director Trynka Shineman 2016 Non-Executive Director David Wei 2016 Non-Executive Director 63 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Leadership Board composition and attendance chart Unscheduled Role Board Board Nominations Audit Remuneration Number of meetings 6 1 4 4 4 Dame Helen Alexander Chairman 6 6 1 1 4 4 4 4 Tim Cobbold CEO 6 6 1 1 Marina Wyatt CFO 6 6 1 1 Alan Gillespie SID 6 6 0 1 4 4 2 4 Greg Lock RemCo Chair 6 6 1 1 4 4 3 4 4 4 John McConnell Audit Chair 6 6 1 1 4 4 4 4 Mary McDowell NED 5 6 0 1 4 4 4 4 Terry Neill NED 6 6 1 1 4 4 4 4 Trynka Shineman Appointed 1 March 2016 NED 4 5 1 1 3 3 3 3 David Wei Appointed 1 November 2016 NED 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Pradeep Kar Resigned 22 September 2016 NED 4 4 2 2 2 2 Where Directors were not able to attend the non-scheduled meeting, this was entirely due to prior business commitments.
In each case, where the Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided comments directly to the Chairman or Committee Chairman, as appropriate.
How the Board operates Role of the Board There are key decisions that cannot be delegated to senior The Companys governance structure is based on the management.
Key matters reserved for Board approval are principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board as follows: is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
It fulfils this responsibility by Group strategy, corporate vision and governance: providing leadership, setting the strategic goals for the Three year financial forecasts, annual operating and capital Company and overseeing the execution of the strategy by expenditure budgets: management.
It ensures the Company has adequate resources Financial statements, going concern and reporting to to deliver the Events First strategy and reviews the operating the market: and financial performance of the Group.
The Board ensures that the execution of the strategy and the resulting Dividend policy: generation of value are achieved within a framework of Acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure or material prudent and effective controls.
contracts above specified spending limits: Extension of the Groups activities into new business or The Companys Articles of Association and the regulatory geographic areas: environment set the external framework for how the Resolutions and documentation for shareholders: and Company operates.
The Board is assisted in fulfilling its responsibilities by delegating some of these to each of its Changes to the structure, size and composition of Board Committees.
We have described how the Committees the Board.
discharge these responsibilities on the following pages.
Both the Board and the Committees have a rolling annual schedule To see the full list of Matters Reserved for the Board, please of topics and items for discussion.
The agendas for Board visit www.
There meetings are prepared by the Chairman, assisted by the is an established agenda of topics considered at Board Group Company Secretary.
The same process is adopted for meetings.
Regular updates are provided on UBMs finances, each of the Board Committees.
Standing items include written reports from the CEO, CFO, and the Group Whilst the Chairman provides leadership of the Board, the Company Secretary as well as reports from the Head of day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
The the CEO and his senior management team the Executive inclusion of a forward plan in each Board pack provides an Committee, referred to on page 19.
The Executive Committee overview of these and other matters which are scheduled assists the CEO in operational and strategic decision-making for discussion over the course of the financial year.
The and the Committee collectively reviews areas such as strategy forward plan is linked to ongoing corporate activity and is implementation, operational and financial performance, regularly reviewed.
budget and risk matters across the Group as a whole.
64 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Papers for Board and Committee meetings are normally Additional Board and Committee Meetings circulated at least six days before the relevant meeting to The Board has six scheduled meetings each year and meetings give Directors adequate time to review them before the may be convened at other times as and when necessary.
At meetings, presentations are made by Executive 2016, seven Board meetings were held in total, one of which Directors, divisional management and other senior executives was unscheduled to consider the acquisition Allworld.
Guidelines have been established for such presentations to ensure that the Board receives adequate Board meetings are generally held at UBMs London office, information.
Sufficient time is built into each agenda for with one or two meetings per annum held at one of the debate and challenge.
From a cultural perspective, Board overseas business locations.
On these occasions, the Board discussions are held in an atmosphere of transparency, takes the opportunity to meet with employees and senior openness and mutual respect.
Behaviour and tone in the management in those locations as well as other external boardroom is important for issues to be discussed openly and advisers and, where the visit coincides with a UBM event, the with supportive challenge to management.
The Board also Directors will also attend that event, providing an opportunity meets for dinner before each Board meeting, to discuss a set to meet with exhibitors and attendees.
topic in a more informal setting.
Setting strategy 2016 Board Strategy Meeting The Board sets the strategic direction for the Group.
Each The Board held a two-day strategy meeting in May 2016 to year there is an annual review of strategy held over two days, consider the following topics: where the CEO and the members of the Executive Committee present their plans to the Board, to be challenged and tested The Events First strategic priorities and how these by the Non-Executive Directors.
position the group to deliver growth and opportunity: The long-term future for UBM trends and developments Talent Pipeline in the Events industry: The Board has reviewed the talent management planning People and Organisation developing and supporting process which has been overhauled during the year, resulting a high performance culture in the identification of top talent within the organisation.
Revenue growth, operational improvements, and the Development plans have been created for these individuals, three-year plan.
with divisional CEOs responsible for overseeing their implementation.
In order to provide Directors with the opportunity to meet a broader range of employees across UBM, regular lunches are organised with the Board.
In 2016 these included lunches with divisional personnel, the Group Finance team, the EMEA operations department and employees in the Amsterdam office.
Further Board-hosted lunches are scheduled for 2017.
The Board also hosted a lunch with a selection of the top female talent from across the business.
The aim of this session was to provide an opportunity for Directors to discuss with employees the topic of female progression into senior leadership positions at UBM, and the opportunities and challenges they faced.
65 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Leadership Independence allow for interested Directors to vote provided they have made The Board regularly reviews the independence of the Nonsufficient disclosure and have been authorised by the Board Executive Directors, with primary regard to the personal to do so.
Directors are permitted to excuse themselves qualities demonstrated by each Director, particularly their from decisions when they are concerned about a conflict or judgement, and the level of engagement and challenge that potential conflict.
The Group Company Secretary monitors they provide in Board and Committee discussions.
The Board the situation and ensures that all actual and potential considers that all of our Non-Executive Directors continue conflicts of interest are appropriately recorded and to remain independent and free from any relationship or authorised where necessary.
No conflicts of interest were circumstances that could affect, or appear to affect, their disclosed during 2016. independent judgement.
Independent Professional Advice Non-Executive Directors appointments are reviewed Each Director has access to independent advice at the every three years.
All Directors appointments are subject Companys expense, to help them discharge their duties.
to annual election or re-election as appropriate by Any expenditure is made in accordance with the terms of shareholders.
More information about the knowledge, appointment and is subject to review by the Group Company skills and experience of our Board can be found in their Secretary and approval by the Chairman.
No such expenditure biographies on pages 58 and 59, and in the Skills Matrix was incurred in 2016.
All Directors have access to the advice set out in the Nominations Committee Report.
and services of the Group Company Secretary, who has primary responsibility for keeping Directors informed of Conflicts of Interest general developments.
The Company has established procedures in place through its Articles of Association to manage conflicts.
The Articles Division of Responsibilities Being clear on the respective roles and responsibilities of Board members is an important element in enabling the Board to function effectively.
The Board has set out the responsibilities of the Chairman and the CEO which are separate and distinct, the role of the Senior Independent Director, and the role of the Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman CEO The effective running of the Board.
The Chairman spends an average of two Running the Groups business, within the authority limits delegated to him by days per week carrying out her responsibilities, but takes no part in the day-tothe Board day running of the business Leading the Board effectively to ensure that there are sufficient meetings, Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial agenda items are appropriate and there is adequate time for discussion objectives Ensuring that Directors are able to contribute fully to Board discussions and Recommending an annual budget for Board approval and ensuring its that their skills are utilised to best effect achievement In conjunction with the Group Company Secretary, ensuring compliance with Identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals the Boards approved procedures and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance Providing a sounding board for the CEO on key business issues Maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the Group Overseeing the process for evaluating the performance of the Board, its Developing and making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee on Committees and individual Directors remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other senior management Identifying development needs for the Board and Directors and ensuring that Chairing the Executive Committee Directors update their skills and knowledge to enable them to carry out their responsibilities Maintaining contact with major shareholders to understand their issues and Leading the communication programme with shareholders and ensuring the concerns, ensuring that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole timely and accurate disclosure of information to the market Chairing the Nominations Committee and leading the Board succession planning process Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Ensuring that the views of each of the Non-Executive Directors are given due Challenging and agreeing the Groups strategy with senior management and consideration and facilitating communication between the Non-Executive scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and Directors and the Chairman objectives, and monitoring reporting of performance Holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman Determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors being present to review the Chairmans performance Available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the Meeting with the Chairman without Executive Directors being present normal channels of the Chairman, CEO, CFO or Head of Investor Relations has failed to resolve, or where such contact is thought inappropriate Meeting with the Senior Independent Director without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance and other matters 66
