CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Continued The process is based principally on the Investment monitoring, safe keeping of the Companys Composition Committee any significant difficulties that as a whole.
Following this meeting and subsequent The Company places Managers existing risk-based approach to internal financial instruments and monitoring the they encountered during the audit, any discussions with the Investment Manager, a value control whereby a risk matrix is created that Companys compliance with investment limits and substantial uncorrected misstatements, any of 1,270,624,000 was agreed as the valuation of great importance on The Audit Committee, which is chaired by Mr Ken identifies the key functions carried out by the leverage requirements.
The AIFM has a permanent disagreements with management and any other the property portfolio as at 31 December 2016.
McCullagh, operates within well-defined written communication with its Investment Manager and other service providers, risk management function to ensure that effective matters which they felt it appropriate to raise.
The Audit Committee considered the report by the terms of reference, which are available on the the individual activities undertaken within risk management policies and procedures are The auditor attends two Audit Committee Chairman of the Property Valuation Committee shareholders and analysts Companys website.
Mr John Robertson, having those functions, the risks associated with each in place to monitor compliance with risk limits.
along with a summary of the valuation and its key been deemed independent, will now be eligible activity and the controls employed to minimise The AIFM has a risk policy which covers the risks movements by the Investment Manager and agreed and welcomes their views.
Given the non-executive those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
associated with the management of the portfolio that this valuation was appropriate for the financial Significant Issues nature of the Board, the Committee also believe The Manager and Broker of The risk matrix is regularly updated and the and the adequacy and appropriateness of this statements and that a robust process of analysis it is appropriate for the Chairman of the Company Risk Committee is provided with regular reports policy is reviewed at least annually.
In terms of existence of the the Company meet existing to sit on the Audit Committee.
Within the At a planning meeting of the Audit Committee with highlighting all material changes to the risk ratings properties, the Committee noted the procedures membership of the Committee, Mr Ken McCullagh, the auditor, the scope and timing of the audit were and confirmation of the action which has been, or The Board has reviewed the need for an internal that the Manager has in place to ensure correct and potential shareholders.
the Chairman, and Mr Michael Ayre are qualified agreed and it was confirmed that the Directors is being, taken.
A formal annual review of these audit function.
The Board has decided that approval and title to all properties held which accountants, as is Mr John Robertson.
had no knowledge of any fraud within the Company: procedures is carried out by the Risk Committee the systems and procedures employed by the include any property transaction documentation it was agreed that the significant issues in the audit and includes consideration of ISAE 3402 and Investment Manager and the Secretary, including having to be approved and signed by the Board should be the valuations of the properties and the similar reports issued by the Investment Manager both their internal audit functions and the work Responsibilities irrespective of its value and the obligations on Internal Controls accuracy of income recognition in the Company and and other service providers.
In addition, the Board carried out by the Companys external auditors, the Companys solicitors to ensure good and set out below is how the Committee considered these also receives quarterly updates from both the provide sufficient assurance that a sound system marketable title.
In addition, as part of the external The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Board is responsible for the Companys issues during its review of the financial statements.
Compliance and Internal Audit departments of the of internal control, which safeguards shareholders audit, the Committee sought assurance from the are as follows: system of internal control and for reviewing Investment Manager on areas that specifically affect investments and the Companys assets, is auditor prior to sign off of the financial statements and monitoring its effectiveness.
The Board has the Company.
Compliance reports are also received maintained.
An internal audit function specific to Valuation of Properties: that the confirmation of all titles has been included Review the Annual and Interim Accounts and therefore established an ongoing process designed from the administrator on a quarterly basis.
the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
as part of the audit work undertaken.
How was the issue addressed?
challenge where necessary the actions and to meet the particular needs of the Company judgements of the Companys Manager: in managing the risks to which it is exposed, Internal control procedures have been in place Relations with Shareholders Recognition of Rental Income: consistent with the guidance in the Financial The valuation of properties is undertaken in throughout the period and up to the date of Review and monitor the internal controls and How was the issue addressed?
Reporting Council publication Guidance on accordance with the accounting policy disclosed approval of this Report, and the Board is satisfied risk management systems on which the Risk Management, Internal Control and Related The Company places great importance on in note 1 h to the accounts.
The process adopted with their effectiveness.
These procedures are Company is reliant: Financial and Business Reporting.
communication with its shareholders and in the valuation of the portfolio and the valuations The recognition of rental income is undertaken in designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, Determine the terms of appointment of the themselves are considered by the Property analysts and welcomes their views.
The Manager accordance with the accounting policy disclosed by their nature, can only provide reasonable, but not and Broker of the Company meet existing and auditor, together with its remuneration: Valuation Committee, representatives of which in note 1 e to the accounts.
The Committee absolute, assurance against material misstatement met the external valuer, along with the Manager, potential shareholders on a regular basis and the considered the processes and controls the Manager or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors To advise the Board on whether the Annual Board receives regular reports on the views of as part of the year end valuation process.
has in place to ensure the completeness and the investment performance of the Company in Report and Accounts, taken as a whole are fair, shareholders from these meetings.
In addition The Chairman of this Committee reported to accuracy of income.
These include data input comparison to its stated objective and against balanced and understandable and provide the Audit Committee in March 2017 and indicated the Chairman, where possible, meets larger checks, rent demand reconciliations and rent arrear comparable companies.
The Board also reviews the information necessary for shareholders shareholders annually and other Directors are that the following issues were discussed in the reconciliations.
In addition the Committee also the Companys activities since the previous Board to assess the Companys position, performance, meeting with the external valuers: available to meet shareholders if required.
considered the various reports provided by the meeting to ensure that the Investment Manager business model and strategy: and The Annual General Meeting of the Company Investment Manager and reviewed on a quarterly adheres to the agreed investment policy and and also the annual and interim results Market review and outlook: Assess performance of the auditor and basis during the year which included the following: approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, presentations provides a forum, both formal effectiveness of the audit process.
approves changes to such policy and guidelines.
The level of yields on properties within and informal, for shareholders to meet and Portfolio Yield summaries: In addition, at each Board meeting, the Board the portfolio: discuss issues with the Directors and Investment The Audit Committee is also the channel through receives reports from the Secretary in respect of Movement in annualised contracted rent: Manager of the Company.
which the auditor reports to the Board of Directors.
Letting activity within the portfolio: compliance matters and duties performed on behalf It meets at least three times a year to take account of the Company including conflicts of interest.
Quarterly Income Changes with details of lease Rental value and void changes: and Approved by the Board on 19 April 2017. of the requirements placed on audit committees activity in the quarter: by the UK Corporate Governance Code and AIC The Company formerly appointed Ignis Fund Comparable evidence relating to the valuation Andrew Wilson Ken McCullagh Rent collection percentages: Code.
The Audit Committee considers any matters Managers Limited up until 29 December 2015 of the properties.
Director Director which the auditor wishes to communicate to the and now Standard Life Investments Corporate Rental arrears: and Audit Committee and, through them, to the Board Funds Limited as its AIFM and formerly Citibank Particular focus was given to the underlying yields Detailed quarterly financial reporting of Directors.
This provides a forum for the external International PLC up until 29 December 2015, now applied to a number of the properties and whether detailing out the main reason for revenue auditor to give their views about significant Citibank International Limited as its Depositary.
they appropriately reflected the comparable movements in the quarter.
qualitative aspects of the Companys accounting The Depositarys responsibilities include cash evidence, letting activity and the property market practices and to draw to the attention of the Audit 42 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 43
