CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Standard Life Investments Limited in 2014, of the debate around the recommendations of the Board appointed Standard Life Investments the Davies Report on Women on Boards and Corporate Funds Limited as AIFM on recognises the benefits of diversity in its broadest 29 December 2015.
A summary of the current sense and the value this brings to the Company contract between the Company and Standard in terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited Consideration of succession planning, Directors in respect of management services provided fees and remuneration policy is also undertaken is given in note 3 to the accounts.
The Nominations Committee met twice during the year, once to The Management Engagement Committee has consider the appointment of Mr Michael Ayre considered the investment performance of the and once to consider the level of Directors fees.
Company and the capability and resources of the Investment Manager to deliver satisfactory Property Valuation Committee investment performance.
They also considered the length of the notice period of the investment The Property Valuation Committee comprises management contract and the fees payable to the of all of the Directors and is currently chaired Investment Manager, together with the standard any of the Companys Directors, including the The Company has no executive Directors or Introduction by Mr Michael Ayre, having been chaired by of the other services provided.
The Board also takes the view that employees.
A management agreement between Mr Andrew Wilson for part of the year.
Committee independence is not compromised by length of the Company and its Investment Manager sets out members meet CBRE, the independent valuer to Following this review, it is the Directors opinion The Board has considered the principles and tenure on the Board and Mr John Robertson and the matters over which the Investment Manager the Company, and representatives of Standard that the continuing appointment of the Investment recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Mr Andrew Wilson, who have been Directors since has authority and the limits beyond which Board Life Investments at least twice a year and report Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC 2006, have not been compromised by length of approval must be sought.
All other matters, back to the Board on the process for arriving at shareholders as a whole due to the strength and Corporate Governance Guide for investment service.
In considering this, the Board considered including strategy, investment and dividend independent valuations and on any issues that quality of the management team, performance Companies AIC Guide both of which can be found a number of factors including experience, integrity policies, gearing, and corporate governance arise in relation to this process.
achieved and the Investment Managers at www.
The AIC Code, as explained and judgement of character.
However, the Board procedures, are reserved for the approval of the commitment to the sector.
by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set has a clear strategy in place to refresh the Board Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets at Risk Committee out in the UK Corporate Governance Code which on an ongoing basis, as set out in the Chairmans least quarterly and receives full information on The Management Engagement Committee can be found at www.
uk, as well as setting Statement, and also undertakes Directors the Companys investment performance, assets, has also conducted reviews of the Companys out additional principles and recommendations on The Risk Committee was established on evaluations set out in the Report of the Directors.
liabilities and other relevant information in advance other service providers, rating each provider issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
21 September 2016, and comprises all of the of Board meetings.
In addition the Board has many on communication skills, technical and market Directors and is chaired by Mr John Robertson.
In the past the Board has identified Mr Robertson ad hoc meetings and an annual strategy day.
knowledge, cost effectiveness and quality of staff.
The Board considers that reporting against the The Board established the Risk Committee as a non-independent Director, given his previous Where appropriate, the Investment Manager principles and recommendations of the AIC to ensure that proper consideration of risk is employment with the Investment Manager.
The outcome of these reviews Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which undertaken in all aspects of the Companys Mr Robertson retired from Ignis Investment has been satisfactory.
incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, business on a regular basis.
The duties of the Services Limited in August 2012.
Ignis Investment will provide an appropriate and satisfactory level The Board has appointed five committees to Risk Committee include the consideration Services Limited ceased to be the Investment Nominations Committee of transparency to shareholders.
cover specific operations: Audit Committee, of matters relating to the risk profile of the Manager of the Company on 29 December 2015 Management Engagement Committee, Company, including an assessment of risk appetite, following the takeover of this Company by The Company has complied with the Nominations Committee, Property Valuation risk tolerance and risk strategy, and the regular Standard Life Investments earlier that year.
Directors Meeting Attendance Summary The Nominations Committee comprises all recommendations of the AIC Code and the Committee and Risk Committee.
Copies of the review of principal risks, seeking assurance that The Board now believes that the link between independent Directors of the Company and is relevant provisions of the UK Corporate terms of reference of each committee are available these risks are appropriately rated and ensuring Mr Robertson and the Investment Manager has chaired by Mr Andrew Wilson.
The Nominations Governance Code throughout the accounting on the Companys website, or upon request that appropriate risk mitigation is in place.
been significantly diluted through both the Committee considers appointments of new period, except as set out below: from the Company.
The Board perform a deep The Risk Committee also reviews the Investment passage of time and corporate activity and that Directors, undertaking a thorough and open The table below sets out the number of Board and dive analysis of the various parts of the business Managers risk processes and internal controls and this is no longer a reason for him to be deemed Committee meetings all held during the year and process involving, where appropriate, professional the role of the chief executive A.
1.2 : through the Committees and receives reports from ensures that risk applying to property acquisitions non-independent.
In addition, the Board the number attended by each Director post their recruitment consultants and committee the Committee Chairman highlighting matters and disposals is fully considered.
The Risk recognises that Mr Robertson, in his dealings appointment date.
In addition to the below, there interviews with candidates whose skills have executive directors remuneration requiring the Boards further attention or noting.
Committee had its first meeting in December 2016 with the Manager, has always conducted himself were 32 ad hoc meetings held during the year.
been identified as complimentary to the existing D. 1.1 and D. 1.2. and will meet quarterly going forward.
in an independent and transparent manner and All meetings were held outside the UK.
The Board and Committee are cognisant Audit Committee For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as hence believe that Mr Robertson is now to be explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, treated as independent.
the Board considers these provisions are not Information regarding the composition, relevant to the position of the Company, being As Mr Robertson is now considered to be responsibilities and activities of the Audit an externally managed investment company.
independent by the Board, there is no longer Management Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Board Audit Nominations Property Valuation Risk In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day a relationship between a Director and the Phoenix Engagement Report on pages 4344. of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee management and administrative functions Concert Party that would cause the Phoenix Committee are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Concert Party to be, or presumed to be, acting in Management Engagement Committee Company has no executive directors, employees or concert with the Directors.
Following discussions Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended internal operations.
The Company has therefore between the Company and the Takeover Panel, not reported further in respect of these provisions.
the Takeover Panel has agreed, on an ex parte basis, The Management Engagement Committee Andrew Wilson 4 4 4 3 2 2 2 2 4 4 1 1 that, under Rule 37.1 of the Takeover Code and comprises all independent Directors of the Company the notes to that Rule, the Phoenix Concert Party and is chaired by Mrs Sandra Platts.
The Board should be treated as an innocent bystander in Michael Ayre 4 4 4 3 2 2 1 1 4 4 1 1 relation to any increase in its holdings of Shares as The Management Engagement Committee has a result of the buyback of shares by the Company The Board consists solely of non-executive met twice in 2016.
The purpose of the Committee Ken McCullagh 4 4 4 4 2 2 2 2 4 4 1 1 and will not therefore be required to make an offer is to review the terms of the agreements with Directors of which Mr Andrew Wilson is Chairman under Rule 9 of the Takeover Code as a result of any and Mr Ken McCullagh is Senior Independent the Manager including, but not limited to, increase in its holding caused by such a buyback.
All Directors are considered by the Board the management fee and also to review the Sandra Platts 4 4 4 4 2 2 2 2 4 4 1 1 performance of the Manager in relation to the to be independent, with any potential conflicts New Directors follow an induction process, considered at each Board meeting with reference achievement of the Companys objectives.
John Robertson 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a 4 4 1 1 including input from the Investment Manager, to the AIC Code.
The Boards policy on tenure is These reviews have been conducted during the Secretary and Corporate Broker, on joining the that continuity and experience are considered to year and the outcomes are noted below.
Board and all Directors receive other relevant Christopher Hill add significantly to the strength of the Board and, 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 2 2 n a n a training as necessary.
retired 16 June 2016 as all Directors will be subject to re-election on an Ignis Fund Managers Limited was appointed as annual basis, it is not appropriate for the Board to the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM of the Company from 18 July 2014.
Following have a limit on the overall length of service of the takeover of Ignis Asset Management by 40 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 41
