UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement The Board focuses on the longer-term future and the implications that a changing marketplace might have for the business in several ways, including seeking out internal and external perspectives on how the marketplace might develop and on the risks and opportunities that taking action will present.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to report that UBM has complied with the The Board has continued to devote time to strengthening principles and applied the provisions of the 2014 UK risk management systems across the Group and this has Corporate Governance Code the Code in full throughout generated thoughtful discussion on risk appetite and risk the year.
mitigation in both the Audit Committee and around the boardroom table.
The approach taken by the Group to risk At UBM, we believe good corporate governance goes hand management, and how it tracks and mitigates the principal in hand with our Commitments as an organisation.
The risks it faces, is intended to enable UBM to respond swiftly UBM Commitments are shown on page 37 and articulate to changing market conditions or external events as our values.
Whether in our dealings with shareholders, customers I am pleased to have welcomed two new independent or employees, our Commitments lie at the heart of what Non-Executive Directors to the Board during 2016: we do.
Our approach to good corporate governance is Trynka Shineman and David Wei.
Each has taken part in reinforced across the organisation: in how the Board a comprehensive induction process that has brought them operates, the priorities it sets and the matters addressed into contact with a wide range of people, both in and during the year.
We believe that the UBM Commitments outside UBM.
A thorough induction process enables new contribute significantly to our ability to deliver Events First Directors to become effective within a short period.
and to create long-term shareholder value.
This year, Alan Gillespie will be approaching the end of his third three year term as a Director and, in line with best The Board spends considerable time focusing on how practice, he will not seek re-election at the 2017 AGM.
the strategy is being implemented and monitoring the I would like to take this opportunity to thank Alan warmly progress against each of the five strategic pillars.
As a for his invaluable contribution and wise counsel over Board, we also focus on the longer term future and the many years, particularly in his capacity as Senior implications that a changing marketplace might have for Independent Director.
We do this in several ways, including actively seeking out internal and external perspectives on how the marketplace might develop, the risks and opportunities which exist and how these are being managed.
In 2016, we established a programme of Board lunches Dame Helen Alexander with employees on specific topics.
Not only did this provide Chairman insight on how the business was responding to changing environments, but it also gave Directors a view of the strength and depth of the broader management capability across the Group.
60 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance structure BOARD The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company and the Group as a whole.
It provides leadership and direction to the business, including setting and overseeing the implementation of the strategy, monitoring management activity and performance, ensuring that the Group operates within an appropriate risk and control framework, and establishing the culture and values of the organisation.
More details on the roles and responsibilities of the Board are set out on pages 64 to 69 AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS CHIEF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE OFFICER CEO The Audit Committee is The Remuneration Committee The Nominations Committee The CEO is responsible for responsible for oversight of reviews and recommends to reviews the structure, size the development and the Groups financial the Board the Remuneration and composition of the Board implementation of the Events reporting processes and Policy and determines the and its Committees, and First strategy, managing the significant financial remuneration packages of the makes recommendations to overall performance of the judgements, the integrity and Executive Directors whilst the Board accordingly.
It has business, and ensuring an clarity of the financial overseeing the remuneration responsibility for Succession effective leadership team statements, review structure for executive Planning at Board level to is in place.
of the risk management and management.
ensure that the Board retains internal controls framework, an appropriate and diverse and agreeing the scope and balance of skills and effectiveness of the external experience to effectively lead audit process.
Committee also directly oversees the process for the selection of the external auditor and makes recommendations for their appointment.
More details on the role of More details are set out on More details are set out on More details are set out on the CEO are set out on pages 70 to 75 pages 77 to 96 pages 62 to 63 pages 66 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee is led by the CEO and comprises senior management from across the business.
Its role is to provide the highest executive level governance and discussion forum, responsible for optimising performance and delivery of strategic objectives.
It also assists in the implementation of operating plans, budgets, policies and procedures, and manages the operational and financial performance of the business.
More details about the Executive Committee are set out on page 19 Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code UBM plc is a Jersey incorporated Company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company maintains a high standard of corporate governance, and during the year has complied in full with the provisions and applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code, to the Group for the 2016 financial year.
The Code is available at www.
The Company has considered the provisions set out in the April 2016 edition of the Code and where possible, reported in line with the new Code requirements.
