Nomination Committee Report 67 Nomination Committee Report I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report which summarises our work during the year.
Douglas Caster, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder Talented people are critical to the delivery of the The Committee considers that the Board The Committee has written terms of reference, Groups strategy.
The Nomination Committee continues to have the appropriate mix of skills which include all matters recommended by the met three times in 2016.
Its focus was on and experience to operate effectively.
These terms of reference are reviewed ensuring a robust selection and recruitment Collectively, the Directors bring a range of and approved annually and are available from process for the Group Finance Director: expertise and experiences to Board deliberations the Investors section of the Groups website reviewing the succession planning and career which help to ensure constructive and www.
progression of senior employees: and reviewing challenging debate around the boardroom table.
Douglas Caster, the recruitment and development of talent The Boards skills are illustrated on page 62.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee across the Group.
How the Nomination Committee spent its time in 2016 Board composition Regularly review the structure, size The Committee considered the composition of the Board.
Sir Roberts tenure as Non-Executive and composition including the skills, Director exceeds six years.
In line with the Code, the Committee considered his performance and knowledge, experience and diversity ability to continue to contribute to the Board.
Sir Robert is actively involved in the defence market of the Board in line with the Codes and the Committee considers that he continues to bring relevant knowledge, skills and experience requirements.
Succession planning Consider succession planning for Directors Succession planning was a particular area of focus for the Committee during 2016.
The Committee and senior executives below Board level.
received a report explaining the annual Organisation, Succession & Development Plan OSDP process, the output from which is reviewed annually by the Executive Team.
The aim is to have a successor identied for all senior positions.
Where a permanent successor has not been identied, key roles would be covered by colleagues on an interim basis whilst external recruitment is undertaken.
The success of the OSDP process is evidenced by the balance between internal and external appointments at senior levels.
For MD President appointments, approximately 80% of appointments have been internal over recent years.
Individuals with the potential to ll more senior roles over the medium and long term are also identied through this process.
A number of actions were taken in the year to strengthen the succession pipeline, including: The establishment of a Chief Executives Mentoring Club Addressing the demographic imbalances that exist in some businesses Taking advantage of the larger pool of talent below MD President level as a result of business consolidations and providing employees with increased scope to broaden their experience within the business.
Board pipeline Identify and nominate suitable The Board appointment of Amitabh Sharma was agreed with effect from 4 May 2016. candidates for appointment to the Board, including chairmanship of the Board and its Committees, against a specification for the role and capabilities required for the position.
Board evaluation Consider the results of the annual The results of the Board performance evaluation process were considered.
Nomination Committee Report 68 Nomination Committee Report continued The Committees focus for 2017 Diversity In 2017, the focus of the Nomination Ultra continues to follow its overriding policy of Committee will be to: appointing the best person for a particular role, regardless of age, disability, gender re-assignment, review the developments made by the marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy or Company in talent management maternity, race, religion or belief, sex or sexual consider the Boards diversity policy in light of orientation.
The Board contends that a board changes to the Transparency Rules composed of the right balance of skills, review succession planning for Non-Executive experience and diversity of views is best placed Directors.
to support a company in its strategic objective.
The Board has considered in detail the requirements of the Code regarding gender diversity.
In selecting the best person for a role, the Board gives active consideration to the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
However, setting diversity target aspirations, especially by specific dates, can distort the selection process and conflict with its preferred, diversity-aware best person for the role approach.
You can read more about Ultras initiatives to improve diversity across the Group, including information on the gender split across the Board, Executive Team and the Group as a whole, in the Sustainability section of our Strategic Report on page 52.
With the departure of Mary Waldner in March 2016, the Board does not currently have a female Director.
With the appointment of Amitabh Sharma, two of the Directors on the Board are from an ethnic minority background.
In line with our diversity policy, the paramount consideration is to maintain the right mix of skills, knowledge, independence and experience on the Board.
For that reason, appointments are always based on merit.
Ultra continues to follow its overriding policy of appointing the best person for a particular role, regardless of age, disability, gender re-assignment, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy or maternity, race, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
