Corporate Governance Report 57 Corporate Governance Report Compliance statement Role of the Board Throughout the financial year ended The role of the Board is to provide effective 31 December 2016, the Board considers that it, leadership and direction in delivering the key corporate objective to outperform the market in and the Company, has complied with the terms of annual increases in Shareholder return.
provisions set out in the September 2014 The Executive Directors set the Group strategy, edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code which is subject to challenge by the Board before the Code.
The Code is issued by the Financial final agreement.
The Board ensures that adequate Reporting Council and is publicly available on controls are in place, including calibrating risk their website www.
Summarised appetite and maintaining oversight of Ultras risk below and explained in detail throughout this management processes.
The Board also receives report, we have described how we have applied and reviews regular Compliance Reports.
The the main principles of the Code.
Board encourages the Groups businesses to behave ethically and properly at all times and Leadership engenders a culture of fairness to customers, The Board provides leadership to the Group and suppliers and employees.
It is the function of the rigorously challenges strategy, performance, Groups management, through the Chief responsibility and accountability to ensure the Executive and his Executive Team, to run the right decisions are made in the right way.
Read more about the Boards leadership on In addition to the ten scheduled Board meetings, pages 58-61. the Board held a number of unscheduled Board meetings in the year to, amongst other things, Effectiveness evaluate potential acquisitions.
Following such The Board evaluates the balance of skills, reviews, the Board decided not to pursue any experience, knowledge and independence of acquisitions in 2016. the Directors through an externally facilitated evaluation process and ensures that all new A summary of how the Board spent its time in Directors undertake an induction programme.
The full range of Board responsibilities are detailed in the Read more about the Boards effectiveness on document entitled Terms of Reference for Main pages 62-63.
Board, which is available from the Investors section of the Groups website www.
Effective risk management is fundamental to achieving the Companys objectives.
Decisions are based on the Boards appetite for risk.
Read more about the Boards accountability on page 64.
The Board encourages the Groups Relations with shareholders businesses to behave ethically and properly We maintain strong relations with our shareholders through events and consultations.
at all times and engenders a culture of fairness Read more about shareholder relations on to customers, suppliers and employees.
Remuneration Executive Directors remuneration is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The Board ensures performancerelated elements are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Read more about the Companys remuneration on pages 74-88.
Corporate Governance Report 58 Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership How the Board spent its time in 2016 Group strategy Review the Groups strategies for growth In addition to the scheduled and unscheduled Board meetings held in the year, a full-day Board and the market segment strategies.
meeting devoted wholly to the review of the five-year strategic plan and principal risks was held.
Monitor the performance of the Group This meeting ensures the Company has a well-articulated strategy for growth.
The focus was on against these strategies.
the Divisional and market segment strategies see pages 14-21.
Presentations were given by the Executive Team and discussions were held on significant matters identied in the proposed plans.
Two half-day strategy sessions were held in the year at which the following were considered: Ultras UK defence strategy Expansion into overseas markets Talent management Risk management, including a deep dive into contract win and delivery and the Groups acquisition processes Internal and external teaming Business structural changes.
Financial reporting and controls Agree the final budget.
Review the At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received a: financial results and forecasts, reports on Chief Executives Report which covers the Groups operational performance and particular performance issues in each Division: and performance against budget, Shareholder Group Finance Directors Report which covers financial forecasts for the half and full year engagement and analysis, and treasury and reviews of financial performance, banking covenants and analysts views of the Group, and tax activities.
major shareholdings and major share buyers and sellers.
As part of its annual work plan, the Board approved the annual and interim financial statements and accompanying regulatory announcements, reviewed and approved the annual budget and approved the Groups dividend policy, payment of the interim dividend and the recommendation of the final dividend.
The Board reviewed reports from the Boards Committees, including recommendations from the Audit Committee in respect of: the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control statement: the adoption of the going concern statement: the long-term viability statement: impairment: and the reappointment of the External Auditor.
The Board approved the Group tax and treasury strategy.
The Board approved the closure of the Ultra Electronics Pension Scheme to future benefit accrual with effect from 5 April 2016 and the pension triennial valuation read more on this on page 41.
Market analysis and major bids Receive market reports.
Review major bid At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received a Group Marketing Directors Report wins and losses and significant current and providing a brief on market developments, order intake and bids.
Improvements were made future bids.
to this report in the year to improve order pipeline visibility.
Corporate Governance Report 59 Group risk framework and management Set the Groups risk appetite and monitor The Board conducted an annual refresh of the Group risk register including risk appetite : the Groups significant risks.
undertook an assessment of the total risk basket to which the Company was exposed and the consequences of a number of high-impact risks occurring simultaneously: approved the risk section of the Strategic Report: and undertook a mid-year review of the Group risk register.
The Board considered the risk prole of major projects and the impact of the EU referendum result on the Group.
The Board received a health, safety and environment report summarising the position across the Group and considered reports on externally reportable health and safety incidents and evaluated the adequacy of the correction and mitigation plans.
A review was undertaken of Ultras Cyber Protection Groups role in mitigating the Groups cyber security risk, including the increase in phishing attacks.
An updated crisis and incident management plan was approved.
The Board approved the Groups insurance programme.
People, Board effectiveness and succession planning Receive reports on changes in senior At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received an update on changes in senior management.
At a half-day Board strategy session, the Board considered the Companys approach planning and undertake an annual to talent management in depth.
The Board partook in an annual Board evaluation see page 63 for further information on this.
Significant transactions, matters and expenditure Consider, review and approve significant At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received project reports on major contracts and transactions, matters and major capital programmes and evaluated acquisition opportunities.
Monitor The Board considered and approved the divestment of the ID business.
The Board considered and approved the consolidation of the Groups businesses and the establishment of CORVID Protect and CORVID Paygate.
Quarterly reports on the Ultra Electronics Herley integration plan were considered.
The Board received briengs on the legal proceedings between Ultra Electronics in Collaboration with Oman Investment Corporation LLC Under Liquidation and the Government of the Sultanate of Oman represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications in relation to the termination of the Oman Airport IT contract in 2015.
Corporate governance and legal regulatory compliance Review and approve the annual report Biannually, the Board reviews the Compliance Reports prepared by Divisional Managing Directors and accounts.
Receive reports from each MDs and Presidents which summarise the compliance matters in the Business Performance Reports Committee and on legal and regulatory submitted each month by the Business MDs and Presidents see page 57. developments.
The Board considered and approved Group policies, including Ultras anti-slavery and human trafcking policy and bid and contract management policies.
The Board undertook corporate governance compliance training.
The topics included Directors duties, significant transactions, compliance with the Market Abuse Regulations and related party transactions.
The Board considered Ultras compliance with the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme.
The Board received reports on the Companys processes for compliance with the Insurance Act 2015 and the Groups offset policy.
Corporate Governance Report 60 Corporate Governance Report continued Continue to develop and maintain best Leadership practice standards in corporate governance Board priorities for 2017 and compliance with legislation the Board Monitor the implementation of the Groups will oversee the Groups compliance with the strategies for growth.
EU General Data Protection Regulation and Support the further development of talent and the April 2016 version of the Code.
succession planning across the Group with particular focus on the marketing, project management and commercial functions.
How Ultras governance supports the delivery of its strategy Good governance is crucial to ensuring we are well managed and can deliver our strategy.
The Board Chairman: Douglas Caster: Senior Independent Director: Sir Robert Walmsley.
All the Directors are collectively responsible for the success of Ultra.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising independent and objective judgement and for scrutinising and challenging management.
The Board is responsible for approving our strategy and policies, for oversight of risk and corporate governance, and for ensuring expected returns on investment are made from leveraging our portfolio strength.
The Board is accountable to our shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and our long-term success: it represents the interests of all stakeholders.
Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on pages 54 and 55.
The Board has delegated certain key responsibilities to the Nomination Committee see page 67, the Audit Committee see pages 69, the Remuneration Committee see pages 74 and the Chief Executive see page 60.
The Committees make recommendations to the Board for approval.
However, ultimate responsibility is with the Board.
The responsibilities of each Committee are in line with the recommendations of the Code and the detailed terms of reference of each Committee, which are reviewed annually by the relevant Committee and approved by the Board, are available from the Investors section of the Groups website www.
Chief Executive: Rakesh Sharma The Executive Team comprises: Chief Executive: Group Finance Director: Group Marketing Director: Chief Operating Officer: Group Human Resources Director: Company Secretary & General Counsel: and the Divisional Managing Directors Presidents of the three Divisions.
The Executive Team is the body through which the Chief Executive exercises the authority delegated to him by the Board.
It considers major business issues, makes recommendations to the Chief Executive and typically reviews those matters which are to be submitted to the Board for its consideration.
The Chief Executive is responsible for establishing the Executive Team and chairing the Executive Team meetings.
In 2016, to support the Companys compliance with the Market Abuse Regulations, the Company established a Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure Committee is made up of the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Marketing Director and the Company Secretary & General Counsel.
Its role is to determine on a timely basis the disclosure treatment of material information.
Ultra is committed to ethical business conduct.
In this regard, the Group has the benefit of an independent Ethics Overview Committee.
The Group has issued a Policy Statement on Ethics and Business Conduct available from the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website: www.
In 2016, the Board considered and approved an anti-slavery and human trafcking policy which was added to the Policy Statement.
Ethics Overview Committee Three independent members: David Shattock Chairman : Martin Bell: and Major General retired Tim Cross Three Ultra members: Chief Executive: Company Secretary & General Counsel: and Divisional Managing Director Communications & Security Further details about the Ethics Overview Committee are given on page 51.
Corporate Governance Report 61 Board meetings The Executive Team as a whole meets the Board Financial results for each operating business, annually to present the proposed Strategic Plan Division and the Group are presented at every for the next five years.
This is then debated with scheduled Board meeting.
Comprehensive the Directors, changes are agreed and a final plan briefing papers are circulated to the Directors in is approved.
During 2016, the Board visited three advance of each Board meeting to enable an operating businesses in the UK.
Non-Executive informed debate to take place.
Acquisition Directors individually undertook site visits of some opportunities are presented to the Board by of Ultras North American Businesses and provided the appropriate Divisional Managing Director a report of their findings to the Board.
Such President and or the Merge Director.
This visits provide a useful cultural barometer and enables a full discussion of the merits and risks enable the Board to see the Groups capabilities of any acquisition proposal to take place at an first-hand and to engage with colleagues early stage.
The Chief Executive and Group formally and informally.
Finance Director explain the significance of any At scheduled Board meetings, the Board Product demonstrations and major impacts on the financial performance and receives presentations by Ultras business units draw the Boards attention to any significant site tours take place, giving detailing recent performance, key opportunities trends or deviations from budget revealed by and future forecasts.
This gives the Nonthe Non-Executive Directors monthly forecasts of future performance.
Executive Directors a good, practical insight into a good practical insight into Other significant matters that require formal the operating businesses.
Board approval, which are routinely presented operating businesses.
They by the appropriate business, include major bids, also conduct individual visits updates on key strategic initiatives and major to operating businesses.
capital and private venture development expenditure proposals.
Board composition When a scheduled Board meeting is not held in Chairman 1 the month, the Directors receive: a summary financial report for the Group comprising Executive Directors 3 consolidated financial information and business Non-Executive financial information: summary financial reports Directors 3 from each of the businesses: forecast for the half and full year: and a shareholder analysis summary report on Ultra.
Throughout 2016, the Board structure was in line with the Code.
Meeting attendance 2016 The table below shows attendance by Directors at the Board and Committee meetings.
To the extent that Directors were unable to attend meetings, because unscheduled meetings were called at short notice or because of prior commitments, they received and read papers for consideration at the relevant meeting, relayed their comments in advance and, where necessary, followed up with the Chairman on the decisions made.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Maximum Actual possible inclusive of inclusive of unscheduled unscheduled Maximum Maximum Maximum Board meetings Board meetings Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Chairman Douglas Caster 18 18 - - - - 3 3 Chief Executive Rakesh Sharma 18 18 - - - - - - Executive Directors 1 Mark Anderson 17 18 - - - - - - 2 Amitabh Sharma 13 13 - - - - - - 2 Mary Waldner 2 2 - - - - - - Non-Executive Directors 1 Martin Broadhurst 17 18 4 4 7 7 3 3 John Hirst 18 18 4 4 7 7 3 3 1 Sir Robert Walmsley 17 18 4 4 7 7 3 3 1 Mark Anderson was unable to attend one Board meeting and Martin Broadhurst and Sir Robert Walmsley were each unable to attend one unscheduled Board meeting.
2 Amitabh Sharma attended all Board meetings after his appointment and Mary Waldner ceased to attend Board meetings following her departure.
Corporate Governance Report 62 Corporate Governance Report continued leadership.
The particular skills and experience Effectiveness that each Director brings to the Board are Board skills and experience described in their biographies on page 55.
The Board has a balance of skills, understanding, perspectives and experience relevant to the Executive Directors are permitted to accept one Groups activities.
Collectively, the Board appointment as a Non-Executive Director other members possess a deep understanding of the than Chairman in another listed company.
The Groups core defence, security, transport and Board considers that such roles enrich the skills energy markets.
This is complemented by and experience of its Executive Directors to the members experience and expertise in other overall benefit of the Company.
Executive industries and disciplines including procurement, Directors are permitted to retain any fees from accountancy, financial management and such external appointments.
This range of skills and experience inform the Boards decisionmaking and enables it to provide effective Board tenure and independence Directors induction and training Experience on All new appointments to the Board receive a Tenure years Independence other plc boards comprehensive induction to the Group covering: Chairman the Groups strategy, governance framework, Douglas Caster 6 No Yes policies and procedures, the products and services of the Groups businesses, the key Non-Executive Directors markets in which the businesses operate, the Martin Broadhurst 4 Yes No key risks which the Group faces together with John Hirst 2 Yes Yes the actions and plans which are in place to Sir Robert Walmsley 8 Yes Yes mitigate these risks, corporate and organisational structure, financing principles and Executive Directors legal and regulatory matters.
Rakesh Sharma 6 No No Visits to operating businesses are arranged.
It is Amitabh Sharma less than 1 No No important for these to encompass as many Mark Anderson 5 No No businesses as possible, since Ultras businesses cover a broad range of capabilities.
New Directors are encouraged to meet business and Douglas Caster holds Non-Executive Director position at Morgan Advanced Materials plc since Divisional management teams to gain a feel for January 2015 and a Chairman position at Metalysis Limited since February 2014. the Groups style and culture.
As reported in the 2015 Annual Report & Board roles Directors met without the Chairman or Executive Accounts, the Company Secretary & General There is a clear division of responsibilities Directors being present during the year to Counsel reviewed and updated the Directors between the Chairman, the Chief Executive and discuss aspects relating to the Board and the induction programme.
Opposite is a summary the Senior Independent Director.
This formal Company and gave appropriate feedback.
of what Amitabh Sharmas induction division of responsibilities has been agreed by On behalf of the Company, the Non-Executive programme involved.
the Board and is summarised in a table which is Directors are active in developing relationships available from the Investors section of the The Company Secretary & General Counsel at a senior level with the Companys key Groups website www.
annually presents to the Board on corporate suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Board is briefed on significant NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Insurance changes in the law or governance codes Martin Broadhurst, John Hirst and Sir Robert The Group maintains an appropriate level of affecting their duties as Directors.
Experts Walmsley are the Groups independent NonDirectors, and Officers, Liability insurance cover in present to the Board on specialist areas, such as Executive Directors.
The Board considers all the event of any legal action against its Directors pensions and tax.
Specific training is arranged for Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
Directors as and when appropriate.
The Directors assessing independence, the Board considers are able to call on independent professional that they are independent of management and Board appointments the process advice at any time should this be necessary in free from business or any other relationship, In making appointments to the Board, the order for them to carry out their duties.
which could interfere with the exercise of Board, through the Nomination Committee, is independent judgement, now or in the future.
careful to identify the skills, knowledge and experience needed for each role and to The Chairman has also considered the Noncomplement the existing skills mix provided by Executive Directors performance in the year and other Board members.
To ensure selection from has determined them to be effective and to have the widest possible talent pool, it is Ultras demonstrated commitment to their roles.
The normal practice to engage the services of Board considers that any shareholdings of the independent external search consultants in Chairman and Non-Executive Directors serve to recruiting new Directors.
align their interests with those of its shareholders.
The recruitment process for the appointment of The key role of the Non-Executive Directors, Amitabh Sharma as Group Finance Director was along with the Chairman, is to provide an set out in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
appropriate level of challenge and constructive criticism to the plans of the Executive Directors Ultras succession planning process is described on behalf of stakeholders.
Corporate Governance Report 63 Induction for Amitabh Sharma Following our announcement in May of Amitabh Sharmas appointment to the Board, Amitabh has undergone a comprehensive induction programme.
This included: Meeting with the Audit Committee Ultras induction Chairman, Deloitte audit partner, PwC internal audit lead Director and other programme was professional advisors comprehensive and Meeting each Divisional Managing Director and Finance Director to gain a good gave me open access understanding of their Divisions Speaking to other senior executives across to key stakeholders a range of functions, such as investor relations, tax, pensions, marketing, human across the organisation resources and legal and externally.
Visits to some of Ultras businesses Reviewing Ultras Group Operating Manual Attending a CFO training course and receiving internal leadership coaching.
Ultras induction programme was comprehensive and gave me open access to key stakeholders across the organisation and externally.
The training was wide-ranging and thorough and enabled me to get to grips with the external and internal environment rapidly.
Board evaluation Mr Telfer has considerable experience working The Chairman commissions externally facilitated at board level.
He was the Human Resources annual Board evaluations.
Board evaluations run Director of Ultra up until June 2004 when he on a two-year cycle.
One year, the effectiveness left Ultra to set up his own consultancy and so is of the Board and its Committees is evaluated: able to facilitate the evaluation from a position the following year, individual Directors of having a good understanding of the Group performance is evaluated.
He provides a valuable insight into Ultras challenges and needs and is able to In 2016, Mr Telfer of Auxesis Consulting Ltd assess the Board and its Committees in the undertook an evaluation of the effectiveness of context of the Groups development.
the Board and its Committees.
The actions from this evaluation are set out in the table opposite.
2016 Board evaluation action points The Board considers that each Director contributes effectively and demonstrates Focus Actions commitment to the role.
In addition, there is an Increase the level of diversity on the Board Board diversity will be actively considered appropriate balance of skills, experience, by the Nomination Committee in independence, diversity and knowledge of the reviewing succession planning for the Company to enable the Directors to discharge Non-Executive Directors.
their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Commitment of time by all Directors Development of Senior Managers Creating opportunities to increase the for Board and Committee meetings and other exposure of potential successors to the duties is also considered sufficient for the Board, such as attending Board dinners effective discharge of their responsibilities.
and presenting to the Board.
Early in the year, Mr Telfer facilitated a Board Increasing Senior Managers exposure to discussion on the assessment of individual shareholders.
Directors performance that was conducted in 2015 and reported upon in the 2015 Annual Ensure correct balance at Board meetings Scheduling Board reviews of major decisions Report and Accounts.
between operation and strategic matters made by the Board.
Competitor analysis presentations will be made to the Board.
Reducing the number of scheduled Board meetings in a year from ten to nine to accommodate Strategic Board meetings as required.
Corporate Governance Report 64 Corporate Governance Report continued In 2016: Accountability Relations with shareholders Risk management and internal control COMMITMENT TO DIALOGUE Main institutional shareholders those with a The Board is responsible for the Groups risk The Board is committed to a high-quality dialogue 3% shareholding or more were consulted management framework and internal control with shareholders.
The Executive Directors lead in about the appointment of Mr Amitabh systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Sharma as Group Finance Director The Group has internal control systems across Director and other Non-Executive Directors are The Chairman met with a shareholder to finance, operations and compliance and key available to meet with shareholders on request.
discuss their abstaining from voting on the controls have been identified.
The Board, via the ANNUAL PROGRAMME 2015 Remuneration Report Audit Committee, monitors the internal control A full programme of engagement with Main institutional shareholders were consulted systems on an on-going basis.
The risk shareholders, potential investors and analysts is about the new Remuneration Policy and Mr framework and internal control systems play a undertaken each year by the Executive Directors.
key role in the management of risks that may Broadhurst met with shareholders, at their Ultra organises focused events and or site visits to request, to discuss the policy.
impact the fulfilment of the Boards objectives.
provide greater insight into the strengths and They are designed to identify and manage, potential of its extensive portfolio of specialist rather than eliminate, the risk of Ultra failing to capabilities.
Visits and presentations in the year achieve its business objectives and can only included various roadshows, investor conferences provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance and hosted visits for analysts.
These range from against material misstatement of losses.
introductory briefings on the Group as a whole to Details of the processes the Board has in place presentations on specific areas of capability.
to identify, evaluate and manage the principal Ultra invited investors and members of the risks faced by the Group can be found in the financial community to the Farnborough risk section of the Strategic Report.
Airshow in September 2016, where a significant In accordance with the Code, the Board proportion of the Groups products and confirms that: capabilities were exhibited.
There is a continuing process for identifying, Meetings are held with institutional investors and evaluating and managing the principal risks financial analysts after the release of the interim faced by the Group and full year financial results, at which detailed briefings are given.
These briefings are also The systems have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval available from the Investors section of the Groups website www.
com, together of this Annual Report and Accounts with copies of all regulatory announcements, press The systems are regularly reviewed by the releases and copies of the published full year and Board and the Board considers them to be interim Reports and Accounts.
effective The Board is regularly updated by the No significant failings or weaknesses have Companys stockbroker on analysts and major been identified shareholders views on the Company.
The Board The systems accord with the FRC guidance on receives a report at each Board meeting on any risk management, internal control and related changes to the holdings of the Companys main financial business reporting.
Further details on the process for financial controls All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual can be found in the Audit Committee Report.
General Meeting on 28 April 2017 where they have the opportunity to meet with Directors and to ask questions.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting is conducted by way of a show of hands.
Proxy votes lodged for each Annual General Meeting are announced at the meeting and published on the Groups website www.
Read about our risk assessment Electronic communication with shareholders is processes, risk appetite statement, preferred wherever possible since this is both principal risks and viability statement more efficient and environmentally friendly.
Read more in our However, shareholders may opt to receive hard Audit Committee Report on page 69. copy communication if they wish.
A full programme of engagement with shareholders, potential investors and analysts is undertaken each year by the Executive Directors.
Corporate Governance Report 65 Shareholder analysis The majority of Ultras shares are held by institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and other members of the Executive Team have significant holdings in the Company, including shares awarded through share option or long-term incentive schemes.
Corporate Governance Report 66 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for keeping The Directors are responsible for preparing the adequate accounting records that are sufficient Annual Report and the financial statements in to show and explain the Companys transactions accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Company law requires the Directors to prepare enable them to ensure that the financial financial statements for each financial year.
statements comply with the Companies Act Under that law the Directors are required to 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding prepare the Group financial statements in the assets of the Company and for taking accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the reasonable steps for the prevention and European Union and Article 4 of the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Accounting Standards Regulation IAS and have elected to prepare the Companys The Directors are responsible for the maintenance financial statements in accordance with United and integrity of the corporate and financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting information included on the Groups website Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards www.
Legislation in the and applicable law including FRS 101.
Under United Kingdom governing the preparation and company law, the Directors must not approve dissemination of financial statements may differ the accounts unless they are satisfied that they from legislation in other jurisdictions.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs We confirm that to the best of our knowledge, and of the profit or loss of the Company, as well taken as a whole: as the undertakings included in the The financial statements, prepared in consolidation for that period.
accordance with the relevant financial reporting In preparing the Companys financial statements, framework, give a true and fair view of the the Directors are required to: assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Select suitable accounting policies and then loss of the Company and the undertakings apply them consistently included in the consolidation taken as a whole Make judgements and accounting estimates The Strategic Report includes a fair review of that are reasonable and prudent the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and State whether applicable UK Accounting the undertakings included in the consolidation, Standards have been followed subject to any together with a description of the principal material departures disclosed and explained in risks and uncertainties that they face the financial statements The Annual Report and financial statements, Prepare the financial statements on the taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and going concern basis unless it is inappropriate understandable and provide the information to presume that the Company will continue necessary for shareholders to assess the in business.
Companys performance, business model In preparing the Group financial statements, and strategy.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires The Annual Report including the Strategic Report that Directors: and Directors responsibilities statement on Properly select and apply accounting policies pages 4 to 91 was approved by the Board on Present information, including accounting 3 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: policies, in a manner that provides relevant, Rakesh Sharma, Chief Executive reliable, comparable and understandable Amitabh Sharma, Group Finance Director information Provide additional disclosures, when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient, to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance Make an assessment of the Companys ability The Directors are to continue as a going concern.
responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
