Audit Committee Report 69 Audit Committee Report As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our Audit Committee Report for the year ended December 2016.
John Hirst, Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder COMPOSITION Throughout the year, the Committee continued The composition of the Committee is set out on to focus on the integrity of financial reporting, page 54.
The Chairman of the Committee has internal controls and risk management processes.
the recent and relevant financial and accounting The Boards report on the systems of internal experience required by the Code.
He is control and their effectiveness can be found in supported in his role by the other members of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 64. the Committee who have a wide range of An assessment of the Groups principal risks and business experience and expertise, as reported in uncertainties can be found on pages 36-43 and their biographies on page 55. the going concern and long-term viability MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE statements can be found on page 43.
The Committee met four times during the year As we indicated in the 2015 Report, in 2016, under review.
In addition to the members of the the Committee reviewed the Companys bid Committee, regular attendees were: the process, project management of long-term Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the contracts and business continuity and IT disaster Group Finance Director and the Group recovery practices.
In addition, the Committee Marketing Director.
The Company Secretary & oversaw the embedding of the Companys Risk General Counsel is the Secretary to the Management Framework.
You can read more Committee.
Deloitte is the Groups External about the Committees work in these areas on Auditor.
To ensure full and open communication, page 36-43.
The Committees areas of focus for Deloitte was represented at all scheduled 2017 are set out on page 71.
Committee meetings, and the lead director from PwC attended those meetings at which key In 2016, the Committee ensured a smooth findings from Internal Audit reports were handover to Alex Butterworth as lead partner of reviewed by the Committee.
our External Auditor Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
The Committee undertook a review of the External During 2016, the Chairman of the Committee Auditors independence and effectiveness as met with Deloitte and PwC in the absence of described on page 72, following which the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In Committee has made a recommendation to the addition, the Committee met with Deloitte Board that the External Auditor be reappointed without Executive Directors present, where for the year ending 31 December 2017.
In Deloitte reported on its views of the Groups addition, the Company appointed an internal financial management process and any matters Group risk manager to support the monitoring that they thought should be brought to the and effectiveness review of the Groups risk attention of the Committee.
The Committee has management systems.
written terms of reference which include all matters recommended by the Code.
These John Hirst, Chairman of the Audit Committee terms of reference are reviewed and approved by the Board annually and are available from the Investors section of the Groups website www.
Ultra is committed to The Board is kept fully informed of the Committees work and the minutes of each ensuring it has robust and Committee meeting are circulated to Board members.
effective risk management and control processes.
Audit Committee Report 70 Audit Committee Report continued How the Audit Committee spent its time in 2016 Financial statements and accounting policies Review managements significant issues The Committee considered and recommended to the Board for approval the annual and interim and judgements, the Groups financial financial statements and related results announcements.
statements and the formal announcement The Committee discussed the key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group.
In on the Groups financial performance.
addition, it reviewed the key accounting judgements and matters that required the exercise of Review the Groups going concern and significant management judgement.
The Committee agreed the going concern statement and long-term viability statement.
Internal controls, including the financial reporting control framework and financial reporting developments Assess the effectiveness of the Groups The Committee considered reports on the internal control environment and risk management system of internal control and risk and their effectiveness.
The Committee considered compliance by the business units with the Groups Business Continuity and IT Disaster Recovery Policies.
The Committee discussed the Internal Controls Improvement Status Report which summarised the results from the six-monthly Divisional control review meetings.
The Committee reviewed the principal risks, the Groups risk appetite and risk metrics and considered their alignment to the achievement of Ultras strategic objectives.
An assessment was undertaken of the key controls in place and future planned management actions to address the risks.
A risk deep dive was conducted into acquisitions see page 37 and improvements in the process were actioned by the Company.
The Committee reviewed Internal Audit reports on the process for evaluating and managing bids and long-term contracts.
The Committee considered reports on known or suspected fraud.
The Committee approved an updated Information Security Policy.
Further details of the approach to risk management can be found on pages 36-43.
Internal audit Review the effectiveness of the Internal The Committee agreed the Internal Audit plan for the year.
Audit function and discuss control issues The Committee considered summary reports from the risk-based and rotational reviews and identified by Internal Audit.
progress reports on the implementation of remedial actions.
External audit, auditor engagement and policy Review the scope and effectiveness of the The Committee considered reports from the External Auditor on the outcomes of their External Audit process: including audit process and the External Audit plan for the year.
negotiating the terms of the External The Committee reviewed the External Auditors engagement policy, independence and Auditors appointment, scope, fees and effectiveness, and audit and non-audit fees.
independence and supervising any audit tender process.
Audit Committee Report 71 Update on the actions reported in the 2015 Annual Report & Accounts Areas of focus Actions taken Bid process Internal Audit undertook a bid process review and its recommendations were implemented.
Project management of long-term contracts Internal Audit undertook a long-term project management review and its recommendations were implemented.
Business continuity planning and IT disaster The Internal Audit plan includes a review of whether business continuity and IT disaster recovery recovery testing has been conducted by businesses within the Group.
The embedding of the Risk Management Good progress has been made in embedding the Risk Management Framework see page 36.
Framework The Committees focus for 2017 Conducting a deep dive into the In addition to the annual routine matters for delivering change principal risk.
consideration, the main areas of focus for the Reviewing Ultras tax strategy statement Committee for 2017 will be: in line with the Finance Act 2016.
Considering the impact of the April 2016 version of the Code on the Committees work.
Significant financial judgements and How the Committee addressed these judgements financial reporting for 2016 Valuation of and impairment testing of The Committee reviewed the methodology and assumptions used to determine the balance sheet goodwill and intangible assets values.
The Committee also considered reports from, and held discussions with, the External Auditors.
Valuation of Oman Airport IT Contract The Committee considered the level of the provisions for this matter.
termination and Ithra liquidation provisions Defined benefit pension scheme valuation The Committee reviewed the main assumptions used in determining the defined benefit postretirement obligations.
Long-term contract accounting The Committee considered the judgements taken into the forecast cost to complete estimates for significant contracts.
Financial control When preparing and reviewing financial Summary results from these reviews are included The Group has in place internal control and risk information, the businesses do not work to a in the Internal Controls Improvement Status management arrangements in relation to the materiality threshold.
All variances judged to be Report, which is presented to the Audit Groups financial reporting processes and the significant are investigated and explained.
preparation of its consolidated accounts.
The In addition, there is a Group-wide process Operational controls arrangements include procedures to ensure the specifically for monitoring financial controls and The Group Operating Manual sets out the maintenance of records which accurately and fairly risks.
Management have delegated control mandatory Group policies and procedures to reflect transactions to enable the preparation of ownership to each of the businesses and be followed and is communicated widely across financial statements in accordance with established a framework for reporting whether the the Group.
They controls are designed and operating effectively.
also require reported data to be reviewed and The Managing Directors and Presidents, the Every six months, Divisional Control Review DCR reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally Finance Directors and the Vice Presidents of meetings are attended by the Group Finance and by the Audit Committee.
Finance of each business are required to give a Director, the Divisional Finance Director and by formal written representation to the Board each Business Performance Reports comparing actuals, Internal Audit.
This representation confirms that they budget, forecasts and prior year are prepared for At the DCR meetings, the internal controls accept responsibility for maintaining effective all businesses on a monthly basis and reviewed, processes and issues for each business are responsibility for maintaining effective internal where relevant, by the Divisional Finance Directors, discussed.
These include: controls in line with the Group Operating Manual the Group Finance Director, members of the Results from the Senior Accounting and that they have disclosed full details of any Executive Team and the Board.
Officer review fraud or suspected fraud within their business.
Self-assessment against the Group Operating Manual Outstanding Internal and External Audit recommendations Compliance with the Groups Information Security Policy.
Audit Committee Report 72 Audit Committee Report continued Internal audit The effectiveness of the External Audit process is It is the policy of the Group that non-audit PwC are appointed by Ultra as its internal assessed by the Committee, which meets services provided by Ultras External Auditor are auditor.
The use of an experienced external firm regularly throughout the year with the senior restricted to regulatory reporting, consultancy provides independent assurance on the audit partner and senior audit managers.
Key to services associated with financial restructuring, effectiveness of the system of internal control.
the overall effectiveness of the process is that responding to new reporting requirements, due A risk and rotational based approach is taken by both the Company and the auditor make the diligence assessments of potential acquisitions the Company in determining its Internal Audit other aware of accounting and financial and consultancy work.
In connection with due plan, thereby ensuring the plan is clearly linked reporting issues as and when they arise, and this diligence work and consultancy, the Board to the Companys strategy and is flexible enough exchange is not limited to the period in which believes that the External Auditors familiarity to highlight and address emerging risks.
The formal audit and review engagements take place.
with Ultras accounting practices and the Internal Audit plan and resources are considered techniques that are involved in Ultras long-term This general approach is supported by a formal and monitored by the Committee, together with contracting activities serves them well in feedback process whereby each of the businesses all internal control findings and remedial actions.
in the Group are requested to feedback comments All newly acquired, individually operating on the audit process, the performance of the The Group Finance Director has authority to businesses are audited within a year of their auditor and any recommendations for the audit commission the External Auditor to undertake acquisition date.
Where required, additional process going forward.
non-audit work where there is a specific project audits are identified during the year in response with a cost that is not expected to exceed The Committee believes that sufficient and to changing priorities and requirements.
Any individual assignments with an appropriate information is obtained from the an advisory review on information security across estimated fee in excess of 50,000 must be feedback to form an overall judgement on the the Group was undertaken by PwC.
referred in advance to the Chairman of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The non-audit work The lead director of PwC reports directly to the The Committee concluded that Deloitte had has to be reported to the Committee at its next Chairman of the Committee and presents the been sufficiently transparent and incisive and meeting.
Before commissioning non-audit findings to the Committee biannually.
Progress the audits had been effective.
In addition, the services, the Group Finance Director or the reports on follow-up remedial actions are Committee concluded that Deloitte was both Chairman of the Committee, as appropriate, reported regularly to the Committee.
PwC independent and objective and that the remust ensure that the external auditor is satisfied confirms whether appropriate action has been appointment of Deloitte as external auditor that there is no issue regarding independence taken to address the risks when they next visit should be recommended to the shareholders.
and objectivity and other potential providers are the business concerned.
Accordingly, a resolution to reappoint Deloitte adequately considered.
In addition, consideration The effectiveness of Internal Audit is assessed by will be put to shareholders at the 2017 Annual must be given to the provisions of the Financial the review of Internal Audit reports, meetings General Meeting.
Reporting Council Guidance on Audit with the Chairman of the Committee without Committees with regard to the preservation of The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte management being present and views from senior independence and objectivity.
The external on the Groups audit is subject to a strict policy management and the Group Finance Director.
auditor must certify to the Company that they of regular rotation such that there is a change are acting independently.
In providing a nonin this role at least once every five years.
This is External auditor audit service, the external auditor should not: in accordance with professional practice The performance, effectiveness and audit their own work: make management guidelines.
Deloitte was appointed in 2002. independence of the Companys External decisions for the Company: create a mutuality of A new partner was appointed in 2016.
The Auditor, Deloitte, are reviewed annually by the interest: or find themselves in the role of Committee considers that for an organisation of Committee.
The Committee received a briefing advocate for Ultra.
the size and complexity of Ultra, the tendering by Deloitte on the firms policies on these of external audit must be well planned to ensure For the year commencing 1 January 2017 Ultra is matters and noted that such policies are subject that the Group complies with best practice subject to restrictions on non-audit fees arising to external monitoring by the Audit Quality corporate governance as well as ensuring the from EU audit legislation.
From 2020 the Review Team, which is a part of the FRCs Group receives a high quality, efficient and maximum non-audit fees that the statutory Conduct Division.
The FRCs Audit Quality Review effective external audit service.
The Committee auditor can bill in any one year is set at 70% of team selected to review the audit of Ultras 2015 considers it would be appropriate to conduct an the average of the audit fees billed over the Annual Report as part of their 2016 annual External Audit tender by no later than 2023 at preceding three years.
All non-audit services inspection of audit firms.
The focus of the review which point Deloitte would be precluded from provided by Deloitte in the year will be tracked and their reporting is on identifying areas where being Ultras external auditor.
The Company is in relative to this cap.
improvements are required rather than compliance with the requirements of the Statutory highlighting areas performing to or above the The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of audit and Audit Services for Large Companies Market expected level.
The Chairman of the Audit non-audit services are shown on page 106 of the Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Committee received a full copy of the findings of Financial Statements.
Tender Processes and Audit Committee the Audit Quality Review team and discussed Responsibilities Order 2014 and the Code.
The Group has a policy on employment of these with Deloitte.
The Audit Committee former employees of the external auditor.
This confirms that there were no significant areas for There are no contractual obligations that restrict requires that any such employment is considered improvement identified within the report, or any the Committees choice of external auditor.
on a case by case basis and takes into account material issues in relation to the financial The Auditors engagement letter and the scope the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards statements.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied of the years annual audit cycle is discussed in on such appointments.
Such appointments that there is nothing within the report that might advance by the Committee, ensuring that any require approval by a combination of the Group have a bearing on the audit appointment.
changes in circumstances arising since the Finance Director, Audit Committee and Board, In addition, the Committee considered the previous year are taken into account.
With depending on the seniority of the appointment.
questions contained in a questionnaire issued by respect to non-audit services undertaken by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Deloitte, Ultra has a policy to ensure that the Scotland in October 2007 to assess provision of such services do not impair Deloittes performance, effectiveness and independence.
Audit Committee Report 73 Fraud Whistleblowing The Internal Audit process, carried out by PwC, An independently hosted Employee Hotline described on page 72, and the Groups internal EthicsPoint is used to provide a process for control framework, help to protect the Group reporting ethical concerns.
Such concerns can against fraud.
Regular business reviews take be filed anonymously.
Employees are informed place at all businesses, in which detailed balance of this process through posters which are sheet and cash flow reviews are carried out by translated into local languages and through the the relevant Divisional Managing and Financial Group intranet which is accessible by all Directors.
In addition, the Group Finance Director employees.
Employee concerns are forwarded and Group Chief Operating Officer review the to the Senior Independent Director or, in the performance of the businesses with the case of issues covered by US security legislation, Divisional team monthly and directly with the to the Chairman of the Security Committee of businesses at least biannually.
Significant either Ultras Special Security Agreement differences between forecast and reported company or Ultras Proxy Board company, as financial results are highlighted and require appropriate.
During 2016, no reports were explanation by the business unit concerned.
In 2015, activities were The Chief Executive and Group Marketing undertaken to republicise EthicsPoint, in order to Director also attend such Divisional business increase awareness.
The intention is to reviews as the case requires.
The internal control undertake a similar activity in 2017. framework that is in place is supplemented by Anti-bribery the External Audit process which represents a Ultra has robust anti-bribery policies and second independent review of controls and procedures in place.
All Directors and employees procedures, with selective transaction testing of are required to sign Ultras code of conduct on higher risk areas.
There is a fraud reporting anti-bribery and commit to act in accordance process in place.
All cases of fraud would be with it.
Within one week of joining Ultra, all immediately investigated and the situation Directors and employees undertake anti-bribery reported to the Committee and the Board.
Additional anti-bribery training is given as appropriate.
Compliance with the code of conduct on anti-bribery is mandatory and monitored.
The Group intranet contains a statement from the Chief Executive regarding compliance with Ultras anti-bribery policies.
The Audit Committee Report was approved by the Board on 3 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: John Hirst, Chairman of the Audit Committee An independently hosted Employee Hotline EthicsPoint is used to provide a process for reporting ethical concerns.
Such concerns can be led anonymously.
