GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Boards have delegated the operational running of the Group to GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER the CEO with the exception of the following matters which are reserved for the Boards: structural and constitutional matters, corporate ABOUT UNILEVER governance, approval of dividends, approval of overall strategy for Unilever N. V. NV and Unilever PLC PLC, together with their group the Group, approval of significant transactions or arrangements in companies have, since the Unilever Group was formed in 1930, relation to mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and disposals, operated as nearly as practicable as a single economic entity.
This is capital expenditure, contracts, litigation, financing and pensions.
achieved by special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and The CEO is responsible to the Boards and is able to delegate any of PLC, together with a series of agreements between NV and PLC which his powers and discretions, which he does, to members of the ULE.
are together known as the Foundation Agreements described below.
Members of the ULE report to the CEO.
The biographies of ULE These agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity of management, members are on page 5. operations, shareholders rights, purpose and mission and can be found on our website.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Boards have established four Board Committees: the Audit The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Corporate Responsibility shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
held shares in a single company and also regulates the mutual rights The terms of reference of these Committees can be found on our of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Under this agreement, NV and website and the reports of each Committee, including attendance at PLC must adopt the same financial periods and accounting policies.
meetings in 2016, can be found on pages 42 to 77.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their www.
com committees respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall THE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, the intention being to create and maintain a common operating Vice-Chairman, CEO and other corporate officers and how our platform for the Group throughout the world.
The Deed also contains Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and provisions for the allocation of assets within the Unilever Group.
delegate their authorities are set out in the document entitled Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing between The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our website.
NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, guarantee the The Governance of Unilever also describes the Foundation borrowings of the other and the others subsidiaries.
These Agreements, Directors appointment, tenure, induction and training, arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain Directors ability to seek independent advice at Unilevers expense significant borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our combined and details about Board and Management Committees including the financial strength.
Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic www.
com corporategovernance interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
However, NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange listings.
Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for the shares of the BOARD EFFECTIVENESS other.
More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found in NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the Notices of Meetings BOARD MEETINGS for our NV and PLC AGMs, all of which can be found on our website.
A minimum of six face-to-face meetings are planned throughout the calendar year to consider, for example, the half-year and full-year Throughout this report, when referring to NV shares or shareholders, the term shares or shareholder also encompasses a depositary receipt or a holder of results announcements of the Group and the strategy of the Group.
Other ad hoc Board meetings are convened to discuss strategic, transactional and governance matters that arise.
com legalstructure Boards may be held either in London or in Rotterdam or such other locations as the Boards think fit, with one or two off-site Board BOARDS meetings a year.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, ensures the The Boards of NV and PLC have ultimate responsibility for the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, and promotes management, general affairs, direction, performance and long-term effective relationships and open communication between the Executive success of our business as a whole.
The Boards are one-tier boards, and Non-Executive Directors.
the same people are on both Boards and the responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles as In 2016 the Boards met physically in January, February, April, July, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The majority of the September and November and considered important corporate events Directors are Non-Executive Directors who essentially have a and actions, such as: supervisory role.
Until 21 April 2016 Unilever had one Executive developing and approval of the overall strategy: Director, the Chief Executive Officer CEO, who chairs the Unilever oversight of the performance of the business: Leadership Executive ULE.
Our previous Chief Financial Officer CFO review of risks and internal risk management and control systems: resigned with effect from 1 October 2015 and his successor, Graeme authorisation of major transactions: Pitkethly, became a member of the ULE and the CFO on 1 October 2015. declaration of dividends: Graeme became an Executive Director on 21 April 2016 upon his convening of shareholders meetings: appointment at the 2016 AGMs.
As from that date Unilever continued to nominations for Board appointments, including the new Chairman: have two Executive Directors.
review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: and review of corporate responsibility and sustainability, in particular A list of our current Directors, their roles on the Boards, their dates of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
appointment and their other major appointments is set out on page 3.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ATTENDANCE INDEPENDENCE AND CONFLICTS The table showing the attendance of current Directors at Board As the Non-Executive Directors make up the Committees of the Boards, meetings in 2016 can be found on page 3.
If Directors are unable to it is important that they can be considered to be independent.
Each year attend a Board meeting they have the opportunity beforehand to the Boards conduct a thorough review of the Non-Executive Directors, discuss any agenda items with the Chairman.
Both Michael Treschow and their related or connected persons, relevant relationships and Hixonia Nyasulu attended the three Board meetings they were referencing the criteria set out in The Governance of Unilever which is eligible to attend, before retiring from the Boards on 21 April 2016. derived from the relevant best practice guidelines in the Netherlands, UK and US.
The Boards currently consider all our Non-Executive NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MEETINGS Directors to be independent of Unilever.
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the Executive We attach special importance to avoiding conflicts of interest between Directors present, to consider specific agenda items set by them, NV and PLC and their respective Directors.
The Boards ensure that usually four or five times a year.
The there are effective procedures in place to avoid conflicts of interest by Chairman, or in his absence the Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Board members.
If appropriate, authorisation of situational conflicts is Director, chairs such meetings.
given by the Boards to the relevant Director.
The authorisation includes BOARD EVALUATION conditions relating to keeping Unilever information confidential and to Each year the Boards formally assess their own performance with the the Directors exclusion from receiving and discussing relevant aim of helping to improve the effectiveness of both the Boards and the information at Board meetings.
Situational conflicts are reviewed Committees and at least once every three years an independent third annually by the Boards as part of the determination of Director party facilitates the evaluation.
The last external evaluation was independence.
In between those reviews Directors have a duty to inform performed in 2014.
The evaluation consists of individual interviews with the Boards of any relevant changes to their situation.
A Director may the Directors by the Chairman and, when relevant, by the external not vote on, or be counted in a quorum in relation to, any resolution of evaluator.
These interviews are complemented by the completion by all the Boards in respect of any situation in which he or she has a conflict Directors of three confidential online evaluation questionnaires on our of interest.
The procedures that Unilever has put in place to deal with Boards, CEO and Chairman.
However, this year only two questionnaires conflicts of interest operate effectively.
were completed, on the CEO and the Boards, the latter questionnaire Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and the Group of inviting comments on a number of key areas including strategy, board senior executives acting as directors of other companies but, to ensure composition, effectiveness, training and knowledge.
Given the Chairman outside directorships of our Executive Directors do not involve an was only appointed in April 2016, the Senior Independent Director Viceexcessive commitment or conflict of interest, the number of outside Chairman led a collective discussion with the Non-Executive Directors directorships of listed companies is generally limited to one per on the Chairmans performance and the results of the Chairmans Executive Director and approval is required from the Chairman.
effectiveness review were then discussed between the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman.
Committees of the Boards evaluate themselves INDEMNIFICATION annually under supervision of their respective Chairmen taking into The terms of NV Directors indemnification are provided for in NVs account the views of respective Committee members and the Boards.
The power to indemnify PLC Directors is The key actions agreed by each Committee in the 2016 evaluations can provided for in PLCs Articles of Association and deeds of indemnity be found in each Committee Report.
have been agreed with all PLC Directors.
Third party directors and officers liability insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors APPOINTMENT throughout 2016 and is currently in force.
In seeking to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain provisions which are In addition, PLC provides indemnities including, where applicable, a designed to ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are presented qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision to the Directors of with the same candidates for election as Directors.
Anyone being elected three subsidiaries each of which acts as trustee of a Unilever UK as a Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice pension fund.
Appropriate trustee liability insurance is also in place.
Therefore, if an individual fails to be elected to both companies he or she will be unable to take his or her place on either Board.
The report of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee OUR SHARES NCGC on pages 46 to 47 describes the work of the NCGC in Board appointments and recommendations for re-election.
In addition, NV SHARES shareholders are able to nominate Directors.
The procedure for shareholders to nominate Directors is contained within the document SHARE CAPITAL entitled Appointment procedure for NV and PLC Directors which is NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2016 was made up of: available on our website.
To do so they must put a resolution to both 274,356,432 split into 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares of the NV and PLC AGMs in line with local requirements.
Directors are 0.16 each: appointed by shareholders by a simple majority vote at each AGM.
1,028,568 split into 2,400 special ordinary shares numbered 1 2,400 known as special ordinary shares: and www.
com boardsofunilever 81,454,014 split into two classes 6% and 7% of cumulative preference shares.
DIRECTOR INDUCTION AND TRAINING All new Directors participate in a comprehensive induction programme These shares are included within liabilities note 15C.
when they join the Boards.
The Chairman ensures that ongoing LISTINGS training is provided for Directors by way of site visits, presentations NV has listings of ordinary shares, 6% and 7% cumulative preference and circulated updates at and between Board and Board Committee shares and depositary receipts for such ordinary shares and 7% meetings on, among other things, Unilevers business, environmental, cumulative preference shares on Euronext Amsterdam and a listing social, corporate governance, regulatory developments and investor of New York Registry Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
Details of the training provided to the Directors in 2016 can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 2.
One New York Registry Share represents one NV ordinary share with a nominal value of 0.16.
30 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 VOTING RIGHTS TRUST OFFICE NV shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 nominal capital they The Foundation Unilever N. V. Trust Office Stichting Administratiekantoor hold and can vote in person or by proxy.
The voting rights attached to Unilever N. V. is a trust office with a board independent of Unilever.
As NVs outstanding shares are split as follows: part of its corporate objects, the Trust Office issues depositary receipts in exchange for the NV ordinary shares and NV 7% cumulative preference Total number of votes % of issued capital shares.
These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as a are the NV ordinary and 7% cumulative preference shares themselves.
1,714,727,700 ordinary shares 1,714,727,700 76.89 2,400 special shares 6,428,550 0.29 Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares and vice versa and 161,060 6% cumulative b are entitled to dividends and all economic benefits on the underlying preference shares 431,409,276 19.34 shares held by the Trust Office.
There are no limitations on the holders 29,000 7% cumulative voting rights, they can attend all General Meetings of NV, either c preference shares 77,678,313 3.48 personally or by proxy, and have the right to speak.
The Trust Office only As at 31 December 2016: votes shares that are not represented at a General Meeting.
The Trust a 141,560,629 shares were held in treasury and 10,392,782 shares were held to Office votes in such a way as it deems to be in the long-term interests of satisfy obligations under share-based incentive schemes.
the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting policy is laid down in b 37,679 6% cumulative preference shares were held in treasury.
the Conditions of Administration that apply to the depositary receipts.
c 7,562 7% cumulative preference shares were held in treasury.
The Trust Offices shareholding fluctuates daily.
Its holdings on The special shares and the shares under a, b and c are not voted on.
31 December 2016 were 1,366,248,487 NV ordinary shares 79.68% and 9,817 NV 7% cumulative preference shares 33.85%.
At the 2016 SHARE ISSUES AND BUY BACKS NV AGM, the Trust Office represented 28.86% of all votes present at NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe for the meeting.
shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting or of another corporate body designated for such purpose by a resolution of The members of the board at the Trust Office are Mr J H Schraven the General Meeting.
At the NV AGM held on 21 April 2016 the Board of chairman, Mr P Frentrop, Mr A Nhn and Ms C M S Smits-Nusteling.
NV was designated as the corporate body authorised to resolve on the The Trust Office reports periodically on its activities.
Further information issue of, or on the granting of rights to subscribe for, shares not yet on the Trust Office, including its Articles of Association, Conditions of issued and to restrict or exclude the statutory pre-emption rights that Administration and Voting Policy, can be found on its website.
accrue to shareholders upon issue of shares, on the understanding Unilever considers the arrangements of the Trust Office to be that this authority is limited to 10% of the issued share capital of NV, appropriate and in the interests of NV and its shareholders given the plus an additional 10% of the issued share capital of NV in connection size of the voting rights attached to the financing preference shares with or on the occasion of mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances.
and the relatively low attendance of holders of ordinary shares at the At the 2016 NV AGM the Board of NV was also authorised to cause General Meetings of NV.
NV to buy back its own shares or depositary receipts thereof, with a www.
nl maximum of 10% of issued share capital, either through purchase on a stock exchange or otherwise, at a price, excluding expenses, not lower than 0.01 one euro cent and not higher than 10% above the PLC SHARES average of the closing price of the shares on the trading venue SHARE CAPITAL where the purchase is carried out for the five business days before PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2016 was made up of: the day on which the purchase is made.
1 9 40,760,420 split into 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares of 3 p each: and These authorities expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2017 100,000 of deferred stock of 1 each.
NV AGM or the close of business on 30 June 2017 the last date by which NV must hold an AGM in 2017.
Such authorities are renewed LISTINGS annually and authority will be sought at NVs 2017 AGM.
PLC has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
During 2016 Unilever group companies purchased 2,930,000 NV ordinary shares, representing 0.17% of the issued ordinary share One American Depository Receipt represents one PLC ordinary share with a 1 capital, for 118,119,958 and 972,584 NV New York Registry Shares, nominal value of 3 9p.
representing 0.06% of the issued ordinary share capital, for VOTING RIGHTS 38,947,918.
These purchases were made to facilitate grants made 1 PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 3 9p nominal capital they in connection with Unilevers employee compensation programmes.
hold, and can vote in person or by proxy.
This means that shareholders No NV 6% cumulative preference shares nor NV 7% cumulative can cast one vote for each PLC ordinary share or PLC American preference shares were purchased by Unilever group companies Depositary Receipt of Shares.
Therefore, the total number of voting during 2016.
Further information on these purchases can be found in rights attached to PLCs outstanding shares is as follows: note 4C to the consolidated accounts on pages 99 to 100.
Total number of votes % of issued capital NV SPECIAL ORDINARY SHARES a 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares 1,310,156,361 99.76 To ensure unity of management, the provisions within the NV Articles of Association containing the rules for appointing NV Directors cannot be 100,000 deferred stock 3,214,285 0.24 changed without the permission of the holders of the special ordinary As at 31 December 2016: shares numbered 1 2,400 inclusive.
These NV special ordinary shares a Of which 26,696,994 shares were held by PLC in treasury and 6,544,015 shares may only be transferred to one or more other holders of such shares.
were held by NV group companies.
These shares are not voted on.
The joint holders of these shares are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, which are subsidiaries of NV and PLC respectively.
The Boards of N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise three Directors of the Unilever Boards.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED SHARE ISSUES AND BUY BACKS SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS OF PLC The PLC Board may, subject to the UK Companies Act 2006 and the As far as Unilever is aware, the only holders of more than 3% of, or passing of the appropriate resolutions at a General Meeting, issue shares 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLCs ordinary share capital on within the limits prescribed within the resolutions.
At the PLC 2016 AGM 31 December 2016 apart from shares held in treasury by PLC, see held on 20 April 2016 the PLC Directors were authorised to issue new page 31, are BlackRock and the Leverhulme Trust as indicated in shares, up to a maximum of 13,300,000 nominal value which at the time the table below.
represented approximately 33% of PLCs issued ordinary share capital Total number of % of relevant and to disapply pre-emption rights up to approximately 5% of PLCs Shareholder Class of shares shares held class issued ordinary share capital and an additional 5% authority only in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
BlackRock ordinary shares 82,085,616 6.4 The Leverhulme Trust ordinary shares 68,531,182 5.3 In addition, at PLCs 2016 AGM the PLC Board was authorised to make market purchases of its ordinary shares, up to a maximum of No disclosable changes in interests in the share capital of PLC have 128,345,000 shares representing just under 10% of PLCs issued been notified to PLC between 1 January 2017 and 21 February 2017 ordinary share capital and within the limits prescribed in the the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Between resolution until the earlier of the conclusion of PLCs 2017 AGM and 1 January 2014 and 21 February 2017, i BlackRock, and ii together 30 June 2017.
These authorities are renewed annually and authority the trustees of the Leverhulme Trust and the Leverhulme Trade will be sought at PLCs 2017 AGM.
Charities Trust, have held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights During 2016 Unilever group companies purchased 2,268,600 PLC attributable to, PLCs ordinary shares.
ordinary shares, representing 0.17% of the issued share capital, for During 2014, the trustees of the Leverhulme Trust and the trustees 91,805,226.
These purchases were made to facilitate grants made in of the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust comprising the same connection with its employee compensation programmes.
Further individuals together the Trustees together held 70,566,764 information on these purchases can be found in note 4C to the ordinary shares amounting to 5.5% of the voting rights of PLC.
consolidated accounts on pages 99 to 100.
On 31 December 2014 the Leverhulme Trust and the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust became charitable incorporated organisations.
PLC DEFERRED STOCK As a consequence of these changes, the balance of shares held by The joint holders of the PLC deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United the Trustees has reduced to zero and only the Leverhulme Trust has Holdings Limited, which are subsidiaries of NV and PLC respectively.
a disclosable interest as shown in the table above.
The provisions within the PLC SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Articles of Association containing the rules for appointing PLC Unilever values open, constructive and effective communication with Directors cannot be changed without the permission of the holders our shareholders.
Our shareholders can raise issues directly with of PLCs deferred stock.
the Chairman and, if appropriate, the Vice-Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The CFO has lead responsibility for investor relations, with the active involvement of the CEO.
They are supported by our Investor Relations department which organises presentations OUR SHAREHOLDERS for analysts and investors.
These and other materials e. g. an Introduction to Unilever and AGM materials are generally made SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS OF NV available on our website.
As far as Unilever is aware, the only holders of more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, NVs share capital on 31 December 2016 Principal shareholders: the Executive Directors investor relations apart from the Foundation Unilever N. V. Trust Office, see page 31, and programme continued in 2016 with meetings in eleven major cities in shares held in treasury by NV, see page 31 are NN Group N. V. NN, Europe, North America and Asia.
In all, they met more than 100 investors ASR Nederland N. V. ASR and BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock as indicated during these roadshows.
In addition, our new Chairman, Marijn Dekkers, in the table below.
was introduced to principal shareholders in September.
Total number of % of relevant Quarterly announcements: briefings on quarterly results are given via Shareholder Class of shares shares held class teleconference and are accessible by telephone or via our website.
NN ordinary shares 5,432,423 0.32 Annual investor seminar: this annual event was held in our Research and 7% cumulative Development centre and factory in Port Sunlight in the UK, in November.
It focused on long-term value creation, innovation and agility.
The event preference shares 20,665 71.26 was attended by the Chairman, CEO, CFO and other senior management.
6% cumulative 74,088 46.0 The slides shown and an audio recording of the presentations were made preference shares available and can be accessed on our website.
This allows those investors not attending in person to access the information provided at the event.
ASR ordinary shares 2,348,205 0.14 Investor conferences: the Executive Directors and members of the 6% cumulative 46,000 28.56 Investor Relations team also meet a large number of investors at the preference shares industry conferences they attend.
In 2016 the conferences that were BlackRock ordinary shares 66,947,018 3.90 attended by Unilever representatives included broker sponsored conferences in London, Paris, San Francisco, Boston, New York, As far as Unilever is aware, no disclosable changes in interests in the Toronto and Singapore.
share capital of NV have been notified to the AFM between 1 January 2017 and 21 February 2017 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Between 1 January 2014 and 21 February 2017, ING Group N. V. ING, BlackRock and ASR have held more than 3% in the share capital of NV.
During 2015, ING transferred its holdings to NN as part of the demerger of NN from ING.
32 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Feedback from shareholders: we maintain a frequent dialogue with our RIGHT TO HOLD SHARES principal shareholders and regularly collect feedback.
In 2016 we also Unilevers constitutional documents place no limitations on the right to conducted an investor perception study among large institutional hold NV and PLC shares.
There are no limitations on the right to hold shareholders, as well as a broader investor survey.
We use this or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of NV and PLC feedback to help shape our investor programme and future shareholder imposed by Dutch or English law.
Private shareholders are encouraged to give feedback via shareholder.
The Chairman, Executive Directors and Chairmen of the Committees are also generally available to answer questions from the shareholders at the AGMs each year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE Board awareness: the Boards are briefed on investor reactions to the GENERAL Groups quarterly results announcements and are briefed on any issues We conduct our operations in accordance with internationally raised by shareholders that are relevant to their responsibilities.
accepted principles of good governance and best practice, whilst ensuring compliance with the corporate governance requirements www.
com investorrelations applicable in the countries in which we operate.
Unilever is subject to GENERAL MEETINGS corporate governance requirements legislation, codes and or Both NV and PLC hold an AGM each year.
At the AGMs the Chairman standards in the Netherlands, the UK and the US and in this section gives his thoughts on governance aspects of the preceding year and we report on our compliance against these.
the CEO gives a detailed review of the performance of the Group over MATERIAL CONTRACTS the last year.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the relevant Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the meeting and to ask questions at or in advance of the meeting.
Indeed, Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of the question and answer session forms an important part of each the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Unilever is required to meeting.
The external auditors are welcomed to the AGMs and are provide information on contracts and other arrangements essential entitled to address the meetings.
or material to the business of the Group.
Other than the Foundation The 2016 AGMs were held in Rotterdam and Leatherhead in April and Agreements referred to on page 29, we believe we do not have any the topics raised by shareholders included: Acquisition policy, such contracts or arrangements.
progress of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, the Baking, Cooking and Spreads business, tax transparency, the NV cumulative preference THE NETHERLANDS shares, remuneration policy, Brexit, innovation and risk assessment.
NV complies with almost all of the principles and best practice provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Dutch Code, which SHAREHOLDER PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS is available on the Commissie Corporate Governances website.
Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or www.
nl together hold at least 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares or depositary receipts issued for NV shares.
Shareholders who Statements required by the Dutch Code and explanations of the NV together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can, under compliance position are set out below.
certain circumstances, also requisition the District Court to allow Non-Financial Performance Indicator: In determining the level and them to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to deal with structure of the remuneration of the Executive Directors, among other specific resolutions.
things, the results, the share price performance and non-financial Shareholders of PLC may propose resolutions if they individually or indicators relevant to the long-term objectives of the Company, with together hold shares representing at least 5% of the total voting due regard for the risks to which variable remuneration may expose rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold on average 100 each in the enterprise, shall be taken into account bpp II.
2.3. nominal value of PLC share capital can require PLC to propose a Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate responsibility resolution at a General Meeting.
PLC shareholders holding in and sustainability and is keen to ensure focus on key financial aggregate 5% of the issued PLC ordinary shares are able to convene performance measures which we believe to be the drivers of a General Meeting of PLC.
shareholder value creation and relative total shareholder return.
REQUIRED MAJORITIES Unilever therefore believes that the interests of the business and Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC General Meetings by an shareholders are best served by linking our long-term share plans to absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are other requirements such measures as described above, which are further set out in the under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs Articles of Association.
For Directors Remuneration Report pages 48 to 77, and has therefore example, there are special requirements for resolutions relating to the not included a non-financial performance indicator.
alteration of the Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and Risk Management and Control: With regard to financial reporting the alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
risks, as advised by the Audit Committee as described in its report on A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only be made pages 42 to 43, the NV Board believes that the risk management and by the NV Board.
A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of PLC control systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial can be made either by the PLC Board or by requisition of shareholders statements do not contain any errors of material importance and the in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Unless expressly risk management and control systems have worked properly in 2016 specified to the contrary in PLCs Articles of Association, PLCs bpp II.
The statements in this paragraph are not statements in Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution.
accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the US SarbanesProposals to alter the provisions in the Articles of Association of NV Oxley Act of 2002. and PLC respectively relating to the unity of management require the prior approval of meetings of the holders of the NV special ordinary shares and the PLC deferred stock.
The Articles of Association of both NV and PLC can be found on our website.
com corporategovernance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Retention Period of Shares: The Dutch Code recommends Carbon emission factors for grid electricity calculated according to that shares granted to the Executive Directors without financial the market-based method are supplier-specific emissions factors consideration shall be retained for a period of at least five years reflecting contractual arrangements with electricity suppliers.
or until at least the end of the employment, if this period is shorter Where supplier-specific emissions factors are not available, carbon bpp II.
2.5. emissions factors reflect the country or sub-region where each manufacturing site is located and are provided by the International Our current Remuneration Policy requires Executive Directors to Energy Agency IEA.
We have selected an intensity ratio based on build and retain a personal shareholding in Unilever.
In addition, production: this aligns with our long-standing reporting of Executive Directors are required to hold 100% of the shares needed to manufacturing performance.
maintain their minimum shareholding requirement until 12 months after they leave Unilever and 50% of these shares for 24 months after The GHG data relates to emissions during the 12-month period from they leave Unilever.
This period is different from that for which the remainder of the Directors Report is prepared Severance Pay: It is our policy to set the level of severance payments which is the calendar year 2016. for Directors at no more than one years salary, unless the Boards, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, find this EMISSIONS OF CO FROM MANUFACTURING, 2 manifestly unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise 1 OCTOBER 2015 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 dictated by applicable law bpp II 2.8.
1 OCTOBER 2014 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 Financing Preference Shares: The voting rights of the 6% and 7% Scope 1 840,633 tonnes CO2 852,672 tonnes CO2 cumulative preference shares issued by NV are based on their nominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
NV agrees with the principle in the Scope 2 864,936 tonnes CO2 918,301 tonnes CO2 Dutch Code that the voting rights of any newly issued preference shares market-based method should be based on their economic value rather than on their nominal Total Scope 1 & 2 1,705,569 tonnes CO2 1,770,973 tonnes CO2 value bpp IV.
1.2, but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of its outstanding preference shares.
Intensity ratio 83.52 kg CO2 per tonne of production Corporate Governance Statement: NV is required to make a 88.49 kg CO2 per tonne of production statement concerning corporate governance as referred to in article PwC assured.
For further details and the basis of preparation see our website.
2a of the decree on additional requirements for annual reports Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag with Emissions data includes material sources of Scope 1 and 2 emissions that effect from 1 January 2010 the Decree.
The information required to have been subject to external assurance, i. e. emissions of CO2 from energy be included in this corporate governance statement as described in used in manufacturing.
Emissions from the combustion of biogenic fuels articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree can be found on our website.
biomass, fuel crops etc at our manufacturing sites are reported separately to other Scope 1 and 2 emissions, as recommended by the GHG Protocol, www.
com corporategovernance and excluded from our intensity ratio calculation.
THE UNITED KINGDOM Our GHG data does not include minor emissions sources that are PLC, being a company that is incorporated in the UK and listed on the beyond our boundary of operational control or that are not material.
London Stock Exchange, is required to state how it has applied the For example, emissions of CO2 from energy used in our offices and main principles and how far it has complied with the provisions set out warehouses are excluded, although we continue to drive improvements in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, which is in these areas through our USLP targets.
The data also excludes Scope available on the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website.
In 2016 3 emissions including consumer use of our products which we report PLC complied with all UK Code provisions.
com sustainable-living Risk Management and Control: Our approach to risk management Employee Involvement and Communication: Unilevers UK and systems of internal control is in line with the recommendations in the companies maintain formal processes to inform, consult and involve FRCs revised guidance Risk management, internal control and related employees and their representatives.
A National Consultative Forum financial and business reporting the Risk Guidance.
It is Unilevers comprising employees and management representatives meets practice to review acquired companies governance procedures after regularly to provide a forum for discussing issues relating to all acquisition and to align them to the Groups governance procedures as Unilever sites in the United Kingdom.
We recognise collective soon as is practicable.
bargaining on a number of sites and engage with employees via the Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions: In line with the Companies Sourcing Unit Forum, which includes national officer representation Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 from the three recognised trade unions.
A European Works Council, our greenhouse gas performance is set out below.
We report our CO2 embracing employee and management representatives from countries emissions with reference to the latest Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol within Europe, has been in existence for several years and provides a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard GHG Protocol to forum for discussing issues that extend across national boundaries.
calculate emissions of carbon dioxide from the combustion of fuels Equal Opportunities and Diversity: Consistent with our Code of Scope 1 and from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Business Principles, Unilever aims to ensure that applications for Scope 2, market-based method for our manufacturing facilities.
employment from everyone are given full and fair consideration and Carbon emission factors are used to convert energy used in that everyone is given access to training, development and career manufacturing to emissions of CO2.
Carbon emission factors for fuels opportunities.
Every effort is made to retrain and support employees are provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC.
who become disabled while working within the Group.
34 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors: Attention is drawn to the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 42 To the best of each of the Directors knowledge and belief, and having to 43.
In addition, further details about our corporate governance are made appropriate enquiries, all information relevant to enabling the provided in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever which auditors to provide their opinions on PLCs consolidated and parent can be found on our website.
company accounts has been provided.
Each of the Directors has taken All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared their all reasonable steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit understanding of and compliance with Unilevers Code of Business information and to establish that Unilever PLCs auditors are aware of Principles and the related Code Policies.
No waiver from any any such information.
provision of the Code of Business Principles or Code Policies was granted in 2016 to any of the persons falling within the scope of the THE UNITED STATES SEC requirements.
The Code of Business Principles and related Code Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
Policies were refreshed in 2016, and for the first time the Code As such, both companies must comply with the requirements of US Policies were also published on our website together with the Code of legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations Business Principles.
enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the NYSE, that are applicable to foreign private issuers, copies of which www.
com corporategovernance are available on their websites.
Risk Management and Control: Following a review by the Disclosure www.
gov Committee, Audit Committee and Boards, the CEO and the CFO concluded that the design and operation of the Groups disclosure www.
com controls and procedures, including those defined in the United States We are substantially compliant with the Listing Standards of the NYSE Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a 15 e, as at 31 December applicable to foreign private issuers except as set out below.
2016 were effective, and that subsequently until 24 February 2017 the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts and the We are required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate Additional Information for US Listing Purposes by the Boards there governance practices differ from those typically followed by US have been no significant changes in the Groups internal controls, or in companies listed on the NYSE.
Our corporate governance practices are other factors that could significantly affect those controls.
primarily based on the requirements of the UK Listing Rules, the UK Code and the Dutch Code but substantially conform to those required of Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act US companies listed on the NYSE.
The only significant way in which our of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic financial reporting.
This requirement is reported on within the companies under Section 303A Corporate Governance Standards of the section entitled Managements Report on Internal Control over NYSE is that the NYSE rules require that shareholders must be given Financial Reporting on page 167. the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material In 2016 and 2015, the Group did not receive any public takeover revisions thereto, with certain limited exemptions.
The UK Listing Rules offers by third parties in respect of NV or PLC shares or make any require shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans only if new public takeover offers in respect of other companies shares.
or treasury shares are issued for the purpose of satisfying obligations under the plan or if the plan is a long-term incentive plan in which a director may participate.
Amendments to plans approved by shareholders generally only require approval if they are to the advantage of the plan participants.
Furthermore, Dutch law and NVs Articles of Association require shareholder approval of equitycompensation plans only if the Executive Directors are able to participate in such plans.
Under Dutch law, shareholder approval is not required for material revisions to equity-compensation plans unless the Executive Directors participate in a plan and the plan does not contain its own procedure for revisions.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 35
