REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE oversight of the external auditors performance, objectivity, qualifications COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE and independence: the approval process of non-audit services: recommendation to the Boards of the nomination of the external ATTENDANCE auditors for shareholder approval: and approval of their fees, refer to note 25 on page 130: John Rishton the performance of the internal audit function: and 7 7 Chair approval of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE expense policy Nils Andersen Member since April 2016 3 3 and the review of Executive Director expenses.
Judith Hartmann 7 7 In order to help the Committee meet its oversight responsibilities, Mary Ma 7 7 each year management organise knowledge sessions for the Hixonia Nyasulu Member until April 2016 4 4 Committee on subject areas within its remit.
In 2016, a joint session was held with the Corporate Responsibility Committee on the Unilever This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their attendance at meetings during 2016.
If Directors are unable to attend a Sustainable Living Plan USLP, which included an update on how meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items the USLP has evolved, how it is governed and how its progress is with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number of assessed.
In addition, Committee members visited one of our key IT, meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
accounting and reporting centres in Bangalore.
HOW THE COMMITTEE HAS DISCHARGED ITS RESPONSIBILITIES HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016 During the year, the Committees principal activities were as follows: Annual Report and Accounts FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Viability assessment The Committee reviewed prior to publication the quarterly financial Tax regulations and disclosure press releases together with the associated internal quarterly reports Foreign Exchange Management from the Chief Financial Officer and the Disclosure Committee and, with Information security and IT resilience respect to the half-year and full-year results, the external auditors Supply Chain continuity of supply reports.
It also reviewed this Annual Report and Accounts and the Annual Report on Form 20-F 2016.
These reviews incorporated the accounting policies and significant judgements and estimates PRIORITIES FOR 2017 underpinning the financial statements as disclosed within note 1 on pages 88 to 90.
Particular attention was paid to the following significant Tax issues in relation to the financial statements: Information Security revenue recognition estimation of discounts, incentives on sales Supply Chain continuity and flexibility made during the year, refer to note 2 on pages 90 to 92: Connected 4 Growth Programme direct tax provisions and contingencies, refer to note 6 on pages 101 to 103: and indirect tax provisions and contingencies, refer to note 19 on page 124.
MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Non-Executive The external auditors have agreed the list of significant issues Directors with a minimum requirement of three such members.
It is discussed by the Audit Committee.
The composition of the Committee changed For each of the above areas the Committee considered the key facts and after the AGMs in April 2016 when Hixonia Nyasulu retired from the judgements outlined by management.
Members of management attended Committee and Nils Andersen joined the Committee.
The other the section of the meeting of the Committee where their item was discussed members are Judith Hartmann and Mary Ma.
For the purposes of the to answer any questions or challenges posed by the Committee.
The issues US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 John Rishton is the Audit Committees were also discussed with the external auditors and further information can financial expert.
The Boards have satisfied themselves that the current be found on pages 79 to 83.
The Committee was satisfied that there are members of the Audit Committee are competent in financial matters relevant accounting policies in place in relation to these significant issues and have recent and relevant experience.
Other attendees at Committee and management have correctly applied these policies.
meetings or part thereof were the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor, EVP Financial Control, Risk Management, Pensions & At the request of the Boards the Committee undertook to: Sustainability, Chief Legal Officer, Group Secretary and the external review the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of auditors.
Throughout the year the Committee members periodically accounting in preparing the annual financial statements: and met without others present and also held separate private sessions assess whether the business was viable in accordance with the with the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor and the external auditors, requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The assessment allowing the Committee to discuss any issues in more detail directly.
included a review of the principal risks facing Unilever, their potential impact, how they were being managed, together with a discussion as to ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE the appropriate period for the assessment.
The Committee The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in recommended to the Boards that there is a reasonable expectation that written terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as Committee taking into account relevant legislation and recommended they fall due over the three-year period consistent with the period of good practice.
The terms of reference are contained within the strategic plan of the assessment.
The Governance of Unilever which is available on our website at www.
The Committees At the request of the Boards the Committee also considered whether responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following matters the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 was fair, balanced and with a view to bringing any relevant issues to the attention of the Boards: understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for oversight of the integrity of Unilevers financial statements: shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, review of Unilevers quarterly and annual financial statements business model and strategy.
The Committee was satisfied that, including clarity and completeness of disclosure and approval of the taken as a whole, the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 is quarterly trading statements for quarter 1 and quarter 3: fair, balanced and understandable.
oversight of risk management and internal control arrangements: oversight of compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: 42 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Each year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL process which includes discussing feedback from the members of the ARRANGEMENTS Committee and stakeholders at all levels across Unilever.
Interviews are The Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk management also held with key senior management within both Unilever and KPMG.
and control, and its processes, outcomes and disclosure.
It reviewed: the Controllers Quarterly Risk and Control Status Report, including The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, audit related and nonCode of Business Principles cases relating to frauds and financial audit related services provided by KPMG and compliance with Unilevers crimes and significant complaints received through the Unilever Code documented approach, which prescribes in detail the types of engagements, Support Line: listed below, for which the external auditors can be used: the 2016 corporate risks for which the Audit Committee had oversight statutory audit services, including audit of subsidiaries: and the proposed 2017 corporate risks identified by the ULE: audit related engagements services that involve attestation, managements improvements to reporting and internal financial assurance or certification of factual information that may be required control arrangements, through further automation and centralisation: by external parties: processes related to information security, including cyber security: non-audit related services work that our external auditors are best tax planning, insurance arrangements and related risk management: placed to undertake, which may include: treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: and tax services all significant tax work is put to tender: litigation and regulatory investigations.
acquisition and disposal services, including related due diligence, audits and accountants reports: and The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements under Section internal control reviews.
404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal controls over financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the annual Unilever has for many years maintained a policy which prescribes in detail financial plan and Unilevers dividend policy and dividend proposals.
the types of engagements for which the external auditors can be used and prohibits several types of engagements, including: During 2016 the Committee continued its oversight of the independent bookkeeping or similar services: assurance work that is performed on a number of our USLP metrics design and or implementation of systems or processes related to selected on the basis of their materiality to the USLP.
financial information or risk management: In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk management, valuation, actuarial and legal services: internal control and the financial statements, the Committee met internal audit: regularly with senior members of management and is satisfied with the broker, dealer, investment adviser or investment bank services: key judgements taken.
transfer pricing advisory services: and staff secondments of any kind.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION The Committee reviewed Corporate Audits audit plan for the year and This policy was updated during 2016 to reflect the European Union Audit agreed its budget and resource requirements.
It reviewed interim and yearDirective and now additionally prohibits most services relating to Tax.
All end summary reports and managements response.
The Committee carried audit related engagements over 250,000 and non-audit related out an evaluation of the performance of the internal audit function and was engagements over 100,000 required specific advance approval by the satisfied with the effectiveness of the function.
The Committee met Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee further approved all independently with the Chief Auditor during the year and discussed the engagements below these levels which have been authorised by the EVP results of the audits performed during the year.
Financial Control, Risk Management, Pension & Sustainability.
These authorities are reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the AUDIT OF THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS light of internal developments, external developments and best practice.
KPMG, Unilevers external auditors and independent registered public The Committee confirms that the Group is in compliance with The accounting firm, reported in depth to the Committee on the scope and Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation outcome of the annual audit, including their audit of internal controls Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the US  Order 2014.
The last tender for the audit of the annual Oxley Act of 2002.
Their reports included audit and accounting matters, accounts was performed in 2013. governance and control, and accounting developments.
The FRC's Audit Quality Review AQR team monitors the quality of audit The Committee held independent meetings with the external auditors work of certain UK audit firms through inspections of a sample of audits during the year and reviewed, agreed, discussed and challenged their and related procedures at individual audit firms.
During the year, the audit plan, including their assessment of the financial reporting risk 2015 external audit of the Group by KPMG was reviewed by the AQR.
The Committee discussed the views and Committee and KPMG have discussed the review findings, which noted a conclusions of KPMG regarding managements treatment of small number of recommendations for improvement and also areas of significant transactions and areas of judgement during the year and high standard.
The recommendations were incorporated into the 2016 KPMG confirmed they were satisfied that these had been treated audit work.
The Committee do not consider any of the findings to have a appropriately in the financial statements.
significant impact on KPMG's audit approach.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS EVALUATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Shareholders approved the re-appointment of KPMG as the Groups As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2016, the Boards external auditors at the 2016 AGMs.
On the recommendation of the evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also Committee, the Directors will be proposing the re-appointment of carried out an assessment of its own performance in 2016.
Whilst KPMG at the AGMs in April 2017. overall the Committee members concluded that the Committee is Both Unilever and KPMG have safeguards in place to avoid the performing effectively, the Committee agreed that to further enhance possibility that the external auditors objectivity and independence could its effectiveness it needed to ensure the Directors continued to develop be compromised, such as audit partner rotation and the restriction on their knowledge of business operations.
non-audit services that the external auditors can perform as described John Rishton below.
The Committee reviewed the report from KPMG on the actions Chair of the Audit Committee they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence from Unilever.
Nils Andersen Judith Hartmann Mary Ma Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 43
