REPORT OF THE NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE MEMBERS, MEMBERSHIP STATUS Reappointment: All Directors unless they are retiring are nominated AND ATTENDANCE by the Boards for re-election at the AGMs each year on the recommendation of the Committee who, in deciding whether to ATTENDANCE nominate a Director, takes into consideration the outcomes of the Chairmans discussions with each Director on individual performance, Feike Sijbesma the evaluation of the Boards and its Committees and the continued Chair 5 5 good performance of individual Directors.
Non-Executive Directors Laura Cha 4 5 normally serve for a period of up to nine years.
The average tenure of Michael Treschow Member until April 2016 2 2 the Non-Executive Directors who have retired from the Boards over Marijn Dekkers Member since April 2016 3 3 the past ten years has been seven years.
The schedule the Committee uses for orderly succession planning of Non-Executive Directors can This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their be found on our website at www.
In 2016, attendance at meetings during 2016.
If Directors are unable to attend a Hixonia Nyasulu and Michael Treschow did not put themselves forward meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items for re-election at the 2016 AGMs in April 2016.
They had each served with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number of nine years on the Boards.
The Committee proposed the reappointment meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Directors are appointed by shareholders by a simple majority vote at the AGMs.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016 The Committee also recommends to the Boards candidates for election as Chairman and Vice-Chairman and Senior Independent Appointment of new Chairman Director.
After being reappointed as Non-Executive Directors at the Induction programme for Chairman and new Non-Executive 2016 AGMs, Ann Fudge remained the Vice-Chairman and Senior Directors Independent Director and the following remained Chairs of their Develop pipeline of potential Non-Executive and Executive respective committees: John Rishton Audit Committee, Ann Fudge Director candidates Compensation Committee, Feike Sijbesma Nominating and Follow the introduction of the new EU Market Abuse Regulation Corporate Governance Committee and Louise Fresco Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Succession Planning and Appointment: In consultation with the PRIORITIES FOR 2017 Committee, the Boards review both the adequacy of succession planning processes and the actual succession planning at each of Continued focus on development of a strong pipeline of potential Board and ULE level.
Non-Executive and Executive Director candidates Follow up on actions agreed from the external Board evaluation When recruiting, the Committee will take into account the profile of Further develop the Directors skills and expertise matrix Unilevers Boards of Directors set out in The Governance of Unilever which is in line with the recommendations of applicable governance regulations and best practice.
Pursuant to the profile the Boards ROLE AND MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE should comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors who are The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible independent of Unilever, free from any conflicts of interest and able to for evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence and allocate sufficient time to carry out their responsibilities effectively.
knowledge on the Boards and for drawing up selection criteria, With respect to composition and qualities, the Boards should be in ongoing succession planning and appointment procedures for both keeping with the size of Unilever, its strategy, portfolio, culture, internal and external appointments.
It also has oversight of all geographical spread and its status as a listed company.
The objective matters relating to corporate governance and brings any issues in pursued by the Boards is to have a variety of nationality, race, gender this respect to the attention of the Boards.
and relevant expertise and the Non-Executive Directors in aggregate The Committees terms of reference are set out in The should reflect Unilevers consumer base, have sufficient financial Governance of Unilever which can be found on our website at literacy and have sufficient understanding of the markets where www.
During the year, the Unilever is active in order to understand the key trends and Committee reviewed its own terms of reference to determine whether developments relevant for Unilever.
its responsibilities are properly described.
The amended terms In 2016, the Committee engaged the services of Russell Reynolds became effective on 1 January 2017.
Associates and MWM Consulting both executive search agencies The Committee is comprised of two Non-Executive Directors and the which also assist Unilever with the recruitment of senior executives Chairman.
The Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
to assist with the recruitment of the new Chairman and new Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2016 or part thereof were Non-Executive Directors with the appropriate skills and expertise.
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief HR Officer.
The Committee, on behalf of the Boards, continued during 2016 to work on succession planning for the Boards.
In 2016 the Committee met five times.
At the start of the year the Committee considered the results of the Committees annual self-evaluation for 2015 and its priorities for the year and used these to help create an annual plan for meetings for 2016.
46 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairman Succession: As reported in last years Committee report, Unilevers Board Diversity Policy, which is reviewed by the Committee each in view of Unilevers objectives and activities it was important to year, can be found on our website at www.
the Committee and the Boards that the profile of Unilevers The Committee also reviewed and considered relevant recommendations new Chairman included a proven track record as a CEO, board on diversity and remains pleased that over a third of our Non-Executive experience, deep knowledge of industry, experience of working at Directors are women and that there are eight nationalities represented more than one company, ability to spend sufficient time in Europe on the Boards.
and support for the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS During the search, the experience of each potential candidate was The Committee reviews relevant proposed legislation and changes to matched against the profile agreed by the Board: the views of relevant corporate governance codes at least twice a year.
It carefully Russell Reynolds and MWM on the shortlists of candidates drawn up considers whether and how the proposed laws rules would impact by the Committee were shared with the Boards: and Marijn Dekkers, upon Unilever and whether Unilever should participate in consultations the preferred candidate, met with all Directors.
2016 appointments: The Committee recommended to the Boards For example, during 2016 the subject of corporate culture, the impact to nominate Marijn Dekkers as a new Non-Executive Director at of the new EU Market Abuse Regulation on Unilevers compliance the 2016 AGMs and, on his appointment, that he become Chairman.
procedures and the draft Dutch Corporate Governance Code were all The Committee also recommended to the Boards that both Strive considered by the Committee.
Masiyiwa and Youngme Moon be nominated as new Non-Executive Directors at the 2016 AGMs.
In April 2016 the AGMs resolved to EVALUATION appoint Marijn, Strive and Youngme with immediate effect.
Marijn, As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2016, the Strive and Youngme have further strengthened the financial and Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee digital expertise and industry experience of the Boards and also carried out an assessment of its own performance in 2016.
The increased the diversity of nationality on the Boards.
Committee members concluded that the Committee is performing well.
Unilever Leadership Executive: During 2016, the Committee consulted with the Chief Executive Officer on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior management changes, including changes to the ULE.
In particular, the Committee was Feike Sijbesma consulted on the appointments of Marc Engel Chief Supply Chain Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Officer and Leena Nair Chief HR Officer to the ULE.
Governance Committee DIVERSITY POLICY Laura Cha Unilever has long understood the importance of diversity within our Marijn Dekkers workforce because of the wide range of consumers we connect with globally.
This goes right through our organisation, starting with the Boards.
The Boards feel that, whilst gender is an important part of diversity, Unilever Directors will continue to be selected on the basis of their wide-ranging experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 47
