GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee has worked to ensure that the transition was successful whilst considering the longer-term needs of the business.
Bruno Angelici The Nomination Committee during the period consisted of Whilst the timing for such changes is dependent upon a number Bruno Angelici Chair, Per-Olof Andersson, Frank Condella and of factors including the availability of the right candidates, the Susan Foden.
Per-Olof Andersson and Frank Condella joined the Nomination Committee is working on the basis that the current Committee following the merger and Neil Warner stepped down.
Board following Trevor Phillips departure will remain in place to deliver the full benefits through the merger to at least the 2018 Review of the period AGM.
We continue to work with the Board and senior management During the period, the merger completed and the Board made on the culture of the Group and we will also continue our work several changes to its composition as highlighted earlier in the to meet the diversity requirements of the Hampton-Alexander report.
The process we took to determine that the appointments recommendations during the period up to 2020. were appropriate was explained in last years report prior to After the external evaluation of the Board, its Committees and completion of the merger.
The Committee has worked to ensure individuals as outlined on pages 56 and 57, the Committee that the transition was successful whilst considering the longer-term recommends the re-election of all Directors standing for re-election needs of the business.
The Nomination Committee is actively exploring the issue of Board and Executive succession planning.
This includes undertaking work to identify the necessary knowledge and skills required by the Bruno Angelici Board in order to replace Frank Condella and Susan Foden in due Nomination Committee Chairman course.
It also involves identifying the desired attributes of potential 20 March 2017 candidates who could ultimately be appointed in anticipation of the retirement and or departure of other Board members at the appropriate time.
The aim being considered is to bring additional relevant skills to the Board by means of increasing its size.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 59
