BOARD OF DIRECTORS Bruno Angelici MBA James Ward-Lilley BA, MBA Andrew Oakley BEcon, MBA, ACA Trevor Phillips BSc, PhD, MBA Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operations Officer Company Secretary  R N Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Bruno Angelici, 68, was James Ward-Lilley, 51, was Andrew Oakley, 53, was Dr Trevor Phillips, 55, joined appointedto the Vectura Board appointed Chief Executive Officer appointedChief Financial Officer theVectura Board in June 2012. on1December 2013 and became of Vectura in September 2015. and Company Secretary of Vectura Hewas appointed Chief Operations Non-Executive Chairman in in January 2015.
Officer in July 2011, having joined Experience February 2014. the Company in January 2010 as James is a BA Hons graduate, has Experience President of US Operations.
Experience an MBA and holds an Institute of Andrew holds a Bachelor Bruno is a French national Marketing Diploma.
of Economics Degree from Experience withanMBA Kellogg School Macquarie University and an MBA Trevor has a BSc in microbiology Prior to joining Vectura, James ofManagement and business from London Business School from the University of Reading and wasvice president respiratory, andlaw degrees from Reims.
and has been a Member of the aPhD in microbial biochemistry inflammation & autoimmunity, Australian Institute of Chartered from the University of Wales.
Brunos career includes senior Global Product and Portfolio Strategy Accountants since 1987.
Hewas awarded an MBA from management roles in pharmaceutical GPPS at AstraZeneca.
In this role Henley Management College and medical device companies.
James had responsibility for the Prior to Vectura, Andrew was the in1997.
Bruno retired from AstraZeneca development of AstraZenecas chief financial officer at the Swiss in2010 as Executive Vice President Respiratory, Inflammation and bio-pharmaceutical companies Prior to Vectura, Trevor gained International after a 20-year career.
Autoimmunity RIA strategy Actelion Ltd and Novimmune SA.
extensive international experience He was responsible for Europe, whichincluded the acquisitions Prior to joining Actelion, he served in organisational leadership, Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, ofAlmiralls respiratory business in a senior finance capacity for management and pharmaceutical the Middle East and Africa having andPearl Therapeutics.
theglobal holding companies drug development in a number originally joined as president of ofAccenture, having previously ofsenior roles, including positions Prior to this, James led the ICIPharmaceuticals France.
Prior to held executive positions in major as CEO and president of the US AstraZeneca investor relations this, he was at Baxter, a US-based multinational building material publicly held company Critical team from 2011 to 2012. global supplier of medical devices.
companies, and has also spent Therapeutics Inc, following James had an extensive career at He has extensive international several years as an equity analyst sixyears as the companys chief experience, including in the US, and AstraZeneca, spanning 28 years with banks in Australia, the UK and operating officer.
During his time across a variety of commercially brings a deep understanding to theUS.
at Critical Therapeutics, Trevor was focused roles.
James progressed the Company of the medical device involved in setting up commercial from sales and marketing roles and pharmaceutical industries.
partnerships, product in-licensing inthe UK through to country and out-licensing, managing drug External appointments headofBelgium and Luxembourg, development and NDA filings, Bruno is a non-executive director aposition he held between 2002 commercial product manufacturing of Smiths Group plc, a technology and 2005.
He then led AstraZenecas and mergers and acquisitions.
group, and Novo Nordisk A S, business in China to become the Between 1986 and 2002 Trevor aglobal healthcare company number one pharmaceutical held a number of management andworld leader in diabetes company in the market in 2008. positions at Sepracor, Scotia care.
He is also a member of the James went on to become regional Pharmaceuticals, Accenture, Global Advisory Board of Takeda vice president for Central Eastern GlaxoWellcome Research and Pharmaceutical Company Ltd, Europe and the Middle East, where Development and Simbec Japan, the largest pharmaceutical the business enjoyed a period of ResearchLimited.
company in Asia, and a member strong growth, with sales doubling ofthe supervisory board of to US$2bn during his tenure.
Wolters Kluwer NV, a global information services and publishing company.
Committee membership R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee Committee chairman 52 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE John Brown CBE, PhD, MBA, FRSE Susan Foden MA, DPhil Neil Warner BA, FCA, MCT Per-Olof Andersson MD, PhD Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director  R N A R N A R N A R Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Dr John Brown, CBE, 61, joined Dr Susan Foden, 63, joined the Neil Warner, 63, joined the Dr Per-Olof Andersson, 63, joined theVectura Board in 2004.
VecturaBoard in February 2011. the Vectura Board in April 2015.
Experience Experience Experience Experience John has a PhD in Susan has held various positions Neil has significant financial Per-Olof was born in Sweden Neuropharmacology from the inventure capital and UK biotech andmanagerial experience in andstudied medicine at Lund University of Edinburgh and an companies.
Per-Olof has an MBA from Middlesex Business shewas an investor director with finance director at Chloride Group plc, international R&Dtrack record School.
He was previously the London-based venture capital a position he held for 14 years within the pharmaceuticals, chairman of BTG plc and firm Merlin Biosciences Limited, untilthe companys acquisition bio-pharmaceuticals and speciality Axis-Shield plc.
Until late 2003, and was chief executive officer byEmerson Electric.
Prior to this, pharmaceutical industry and John was chief executive of ofthe technology transfer he spent six years at Exel plc considerable experience Acambis plc, a leading producer company Cancer Research formerly Ocean Group plc and inrespiratory therapeutic ofvaccines to treat and prevent Campaign Technology Ltd from acquired by DHL Deutsche Post development.
She studied inDecember 2005, where he retired from Almirall where he Honorary Professor of Edinburgh biochemistry at the University helda number of senior posts in wasexecutive director for R&D University and is a Fellow of the ofOxford from where she financial planning, treasury and andamember of the board of Royal Society of Edinburgh.
obtained an MA and a DPhil.
He has also held senior directors.
Prior to joining Almirall positions in Balfour Beatty plc in2006, Per-Olof had a distinguished External appointments External appointments formerly BICC Group plc, Alcoa international career at Pharmacia John is chairman of Kyowa Kirin Susan holds a number of and  and and Pfizer over a period of nearly International plc, Synpromics Ltd, non-executive directorships with was a non-executive director of 20 years.
Since 2011, Per-Olof has the Cell Therapy Catapult and the both public and private companies Dechra Pharmaceuticals plc, where been an independent consultant Roslin Foundation.
He also chairs in the biotech and healthcare field, he was the senior independent advising biotech and pharmaceutical the Life Sciences Industry including BTG plc, BerGenBio AS, director and chair of the audit companies and, in particular, Leadership Group for the the Cell Therapy Catapult and committee.
Neil has an economics working with Almirall.
degree from the University of Leeds and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
External appointments Neil is senior independent director and audit committee chair of Trifast plc, a global leader in design, technology and manufacturing ofindustrial fasteners for the automotive andtechnology sectors.
Neil is also currently thenon-executive chairman of Enteq Upstream plc, a specialist reach and recovery products andtechnologies provider to theupstream oil and gas servicesmarket.
Committee membership R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee Committee chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 53
