EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Karl Keegan BSc, MPhil, PhD, MSc Roger Heerman BS, MBA Joanne Hombal BSc, PgDip, MCIPD Chief Commercial Officer Chief Corporate Human Resources Director Development Officer Tenure Tenure Tenure Dr Karl Keegan, 49, joined Roger Heerman, 43, joined Joanne Hombal, 42, joined Vectura Vecturain September 2012.
Vecturain 2010 and was in January 2015. appointed ChiefCommercial Experience Experience Officer in 2013.
Karl is an Irish national who has Joanne has a BSc in psychology worked in the healthcare industry Experience from the University of Birmingham, for over 20 years.
Prior to joining Vectura, Roger gained a postgraduate diploma in human extensive US and international resource management from the Karl has a BSc in pharmacology commercialisation experience in University of Glamorgan and isa from University College Dublin, anumber of senior roles, including Chartered Member of the Institute anMPhil and PhD in pharmacology vice president sales and marketing of Personnel and Development.
from the University of Cambridge of the USpublicly held company and a Masters degree in finance Before joining Vectura, Joanne was CriticalTherapeutics, Inc. and from the London Business School.
vice president HR at Invensys Rail, asvice president, director of Following postdoctoral research with responsibility for setting and clientservice atMcK Healthcare.
work at Baylor College of Medicine, leading the people strategy for Houston, Texas, Karl joined At Critical Therapeutics, he was Northern Europe.
She has also SmithKline Beecham as a bench responsible for the build-out of heldsenior HR roles in the financial scientist and later moved to a thecommercial infrastructure services and ICT industries and strategic commercial role within andthe launch of ZYFLO CR in leda number oforganisational the neuroscience strategic product theUS.
At McK Healthcare, development andtransformation development team.
Rogersupported the launch and initiatives.
repositioning efforts of numerous Upon leaving the pharmaceutical US and global brands, including industry, Karl became one of the UCBs Neupro for Parkinsons leading financial analysts covering disease and IROKOs Aggrastat the biotechnology industry on for acute coronarysyndrome.
His most recent analyst role was at Canaccord Roger began his career in the Adams, as managing director, pharmaceutical industry as a sales UKhead of equity research representative in the respiratory andglobal head of life sciences division at GlaxoSmithKline.
Prior to joining Vectura Hereceived his BS from Babson in2012, he was CFO of Minster College and his MBA from the Pharmaceuticals, a publicly listed F. W. Olin School of Business UK company and, most recently, atBabson College.
CFO of Pharming Group, a Dutch biotech company listed on Euronext.
54 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
