GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee focused on successful planning and overall Board balance and composition, theappointment of our new CEO and made recommendations of the Board structure followingtheproposed Skyepharma merger.
Bruno Angelici Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholder Role and responsibilities On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Vecturas Nomination The Nomination Committee the Committee operates under written Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The role of terms of reference, which are modelled on the UK Corporate the Committee is to ensure that the Group maintains a Board which Governance Code the Code and are available on the Company is appropriately balanced and, as a unit, functions as efficiently and website, www.
The Committee reviews these terms effectively as possible.
No material changes were made to the termsofreference during the year.
During the year, the Committee has continued to focus on the issues of succession planning and overall Board balance and composition.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure of the The Committee considered and made recommendations to the Board and Board Committees and evaluating the balance of skills, Board regarding the appointment of James Ward-Lilley as our new experience, independence and knowledge of the Board as a whole.
The Committee also made recommendations, On the basis of this evaluation, the Committee makes recommendations which will come into force upon completion of the proposed merger to the Board regarding Board appointments.
Where the need for a with Skyepharma, in regard to the appointment of Andrew Derodra, new Executive or Non-Executive Director is identified, the Committee currently Skyepharmas CFO, to replace Andrew Oakley as is responsible for preparing a description of the role and the capabilities ChiefFinancial Officer.
required for a particular appointment and for identifying and nominating potential candidates to fill the vacancy.
At the same time, Vectura will appoint Frank Condella, Skyepharmas Chairman, as Vice-Chairman and Dr Thomas Werner, a non-executive The Committee also ensures that appropriate succession plans for Skyepharma director, as a Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and the Groups senior management are kept under review with a view to ensuring the It is Vecturas intention that Dr John Brown will stand down from long-term success of the Group.
the Board within one month after the completion of the proposed merger and there will be an appropriately managed process for Membership and meetings thedeparture of one additional existing Vectura Board member, The membership of the Committee, the number of Committee toreduce the size of the Board to eight within 18 months of meetings held and attendance thereat can be found on page 56 completion of the proposed merger.
ofthe Governance section of this Annual Report.
The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors, John Brown, Susan Foden, Neil Warner and Bruno Angelici, with Bruno Angelici acting as Chairman.
Bruno Angelici The Executive Directors, other members of executive and external Chairman of the Nomination Committee advisors may also attend Committee meetings as required, at the 25 May 2016 invitation of the Chairman.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 65 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Membership and meetings continued Immediately prior to joining Vectura James was vice president The Committee is authorised to obtain external professional advice respiratory, inflammation & autoimmunity, Global Product and including, without limitation, legal and other professional advice to Portfolio Strategy GPPS and in this role James had responsibility assist in the performance of its duties.
During the year, the Committee for the development of AstraZenecas Respiratory, Inflammation has utilised the services of Russell Reynolds and Spencer Stuart, and Autoimmunity RIA strategy which included the acquisitions asoutlined below.
Both firms are signatories to the Voluntary Code ofAlmiralls respiratory business and Pearl Therapeutics.
ofConduct for Executive Recruitment Firms as recommended The Committee also made recommendations to the Board regarding bythe Davies Report.
There were no other services provided changes to the Board assuming that the proposed merger with bythese firms during the year.
Following completion Andrew Oakley, The Committee met twice during the year ended 31 March 2016, Vecturas CFO and Company Secretary, will leave the Vectura Board, andall members were present at each meeting.
Additionally, the as will Dr John Brown.
Andrew will be replaced on the Board by Committee held a number of informal meetings and discussions Andrew Derodra, Skyepharmas CFO, who will become CFO of during the year.
At the same time, Vectura will appoint Frank Condella andDr Thomas Werner, both currently Chairman and Non-Executive The key issues considered by the Committee during the year are Director, respectively, of Skyepharma as Vice Chairman and as a outlined below.
The Board was unanimous in accepting the recommendation of the Committee.
Oneadditional Appointment of Directors existing VecturaBoard member will also leave the Board, reducing There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the thesizeof the Board to eight within 18 months ofcompletion appointment of new Directors to the Board under which the Committee ofthe proposed merger.
interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either by existing Board members or by an external executive recruitment firm.
Diversity TheCommittee gives careful consideration to the appointment of The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 58. any proposed appointee, to ensure that the candidate has sufficient time available to devote to the role as well as the required level The search for Board candidates is conducted, and appointments ofskill and knowledge to ensure that the balance of skills, made, on merit against objective selection criteria and having due experience and knowledge on the Board is maintained.
regard, amongst other things, to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including the inclusion of women.
Diversity is considered In 2015, Chris Blackwell resigned as Chief Executive Officer.
The bythe Nomination Committee in considering Board composition Committee appointed an executive recruitment firm, Spencer Stuart, and in the process of making Board appointments.
to find a suitable replacement for Chris, giving due regard to the experience and skills required for the role.
Spencer Stuart has no Committee effectiveness review other connection to the Company.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness aspart of the overall Board evaluation process.
The Committee Following this recruitment process, the Committee recommended considered that it acted transparently and, given the number of to the Board that James Ward-Lilley be appointed as Chris successor.
Committee and Board meetings scheduled throughout the financial James has had an extensive career at AstraZeneca, spanning 28years year, maintained a thorough understanding of the Group and its across a variety of commercially focused roles, progressing from business.
The results of the review were advised to the Board.
sales and marketing roles in the UK through country and regional leadership positions.
Bruno Angelici Chairman of the Nomination Committee 25 May 2016 66 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
