GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Leadership The Board and its processes Board balance and independence Board membership The Board considers that the balance achieved between Executive The Board currently comprises three Executive and six Non-Executive and Non-Executive Directors during the period was appropriate and Directors, following the merger on 10 June 2016 between Vectura and effective for the business.
During the period, the Company merged Skyepharma.
On the date of the merger, Andrew Oakley, the then and enlarged and accordingly the Board reflected the size and Chief Financial Officer, resigned and was replaced by Andrew Derodra, composition required for the new Group.
Chief Financial Officer at Skyepharma.
On thesame date, Frank Condella, The Board considers that all of its Non-Executive Directors are the Chairman of Skyepharma, joined the Board as Vice Chairman independent in character and judgement, and their knowledge, and Dr Thomas Werner, the senior non-executive Director at diversity of experience and business interests continue to enable Skyepharma, became a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
them to contribute significantly to the work of the Board including John Brown, formerly Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, developing strategy and challenging the Executive Management and a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination appropriately and constructively.
Committees, stepped down as a Director of the Company a month later on 10 July 2016.
These appointments and resignations were The role of the Board agreed prior to the merger and described in the merger The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success documentation circulated to shareholders.
ofthe Company, its governance and internal controls and is accountable for its activities.
The Board reviews the operational On 6 March 2017, we announced that Trevor Phillips, Vecturas performance of the Group on a regular basis and also exercises a Chief Operations Officer and President of US Operations would step number of reserved powers.
The Matters Reserved for the Board, down from the Board at the AGM on 25 May 2017 and leave the which were reviewed and updated in the period to ensure that they company on 31 May 2017. are appropriate for the enlarged Company, are available via the The Board is supported in its role by the Audit, Nomination and Companys website, www.
Remuneration Committees, details of which are set out below.
Board meetings The Directors roles and membership of the Committees are set The Board meets ordinarily between six and eight times a year and outin the preceding pages of the Directors biographies.
In the nine months to 31 December 2016, in addition to five scheduled formal Board meetings which were held, In accordance with the Code, all Directors, with the exception of there were six additional meetings held in order to discuss matters Trevor Phillips as mentioned above, will put themselves forward suchas the terms of the merger with Skyepharma.
forre-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Attendance at formal pre-scheduled Board and Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Board and Committee meetings Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Bruno Angelici Non-Executive Chairman 11 11 2 2 9 9 Frank Condella 7 7 1 1 1 1 Andrew Derodra 7 7 Trevor Phillips 11 11 James Ward-Lilley 11 11 Andrew Oakley left the Board on 10 June 2016 3 3 1 Per-Olof Andersson 11 11 1 1 2 3 Susan Foden 11 11 2 2 2 2 9 9 Neil Warner 11 11 3 3 1 1 9 9 Thomas Werner 7 7 1 1 5 5 2 John Brown left the Board on 10 July 2016 3 4 2 2 1 1 2 4 1 Dr Andersson was an apology for one Remuneration Committee Meeting due to a prior commitment.
2 The Chairs accepted Mr Browns apologies for meetings that he could not attend prior to leaving the Board.
Attendance above is in relation to members of the Board Committee.
Other Directors and Senior Executives may attend by invitation but their attendance is not recorded in the table.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board and its processes continued Induction and development and information flows Board meetings continued New Directors receive formal induction training, including site visits At each formal meeting the Board considers reports on the key and meetings with the Companys advisors, brokers, auditor and activities of the Group and reports from the Chairs of the Audit, major shareholders, and ongoing training is encouraged and provided Nomination and Remuneration Committees as appropriate.
It also upon request and as appropriate.
This training is customised for received information on important forthcoming events and received each Director and varies depending upon their skills, experience reports on investor relations, legal affairs and environment and and background.
The Board regularly receives papers and Directors also received regular updates on changes and developments presentations from senior management, which gives the Board the in the business, legislative and regulatory environments, such as, opportunity to meet executives below Board level.
In addition, during the period, updates on the Market Abuse Regulation and its there was a full-day Board meeting to focus on strategic impact on the Company and requirements for Directors.
Anti-bribery development, looking at the Groups longer-term horizon.
Directors are encouraged to discuss In the period, the Non-Executive Directors held meetings without with the Chairman any further training requirements which they management present and, in addition, met on one occasion for a feel are needed.
This is included in the discussions held during the routine meeting led by the Senior Independent Director to review annual performance evaluation.
the performance of the Chairman whose role includes the leadership Good information flows between the Board and management of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman, with areessential for effective governance.
The General Counsel and assistance from the General Counsel and Company Secretary, Company Secretary works with the Chairman and Chairs of the isresponsible for the governance arrangements including Committees together with senior management to ensure: that the meetingagendas, timely information flows and dialogue between agendas are appropriate for the business and are forward looking Executive and Non-Executive Directors encouraging an open and as well as providing historical and current results data: that papers supportive culture.
are of an appropriate length and content for the Non-Executive Directors in particular to be able to understand and review: and that Executive Leadership Team sufficient time is given for Directors to read and review the papers The Board delegates day-to-day management of the Group to prior to meetings.
To give time for such review, papers are typically theChief Executive and his team.
The Executive Leadership Team sent out, usually electronically, one week before the meeting to ELT supports the Chief Executive and is accountable for delivery give an opportunity to clarify any points before the meeting and to ofthe strategy adopted by the Board.
The ELT consisted during prepare questions and observations of the matter at the meeting.
theperiod of the Executive Directors, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, Executive Vice President Pharmaceutical Board evaluation Development, Executive Vice President Oral Business, Executive In accordance with the Code requirements for an external evaluation Vice President Commercial and Business Development and to be conducted every three years, the Board appointed an independent Director of Human Resources.
Two of the members were women.
consultant, Independent Audit Limited IAL, to lead an external review In February 2017 Gonzalo fide Miquel joined the ELT.
of the Board and its committees.
IAL has no other connection with the Company.
This is the first time that the Company has used an Risk independent external facilitator to assist in reviewing the effectiveness The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management process.
We intend to continue to meet this requirement for an Responsibility for its implementation is delegated to the Chief Executive external evaluation every three years going forward with internal, and ELT members.
The Board outlines the general level of risk which questionnaire-based evaluations being conducted in the intervening is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risk and years to build on any outcomes and lessons learned from the reward, promoting a risk-aware culture throughout the business.
This years evaluation process included: The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks individual interviews with each Board member: facing the enlarged Company and has also conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control during interviews with a number of members of the Executive the period.
Risk management and internal control is a continuous Leadership Team below Board level : process and has been considered by the Board on a regular basis, a review of Board and Committee papers and minutes: and noting that it currently does not consider that a separate internal audit function is required for the business.
an observation of the February 2017 Board and Committee meetings.
The Boards considerations include identifying and evaluating principal The Chairman and the Board discussed the report provided by risks and the control strategies developed to mitigate these.
The Board IALat the March 2017 Board meeting.
A number of suggestions promotes the development of a strong control culture within the were proposed in the report which are being considered.
These business and the Audit Committee regularly reviews the financial included for example: enhancing future agenda planning, holding and operational controls, including in relation to the financial additional informal meetings of the Non-Executive Directors and reporting process, reporting to the Board as appropriate.
providing them with exposure to a wider range of senior executives Further information on the principal risks and the Groups system both atboard meetings and informally.
Non-Executive Directors ofrisk management is contained in the Strategic report on pages30 to 34.
56 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE willbe encouraged to make further site visits individually and Board Committees withother Board members, which the Company will facilitate.
There are three main Committees, all of which operate within TheBoard will also spend further time on succession planning written terms of reference.
The terms of reference are available on forNon-Executive Directors.
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings in 2016 can be found in the table Individual Board members received feedback on their performance on page 55.
The composition of the Committees changed following from the Chairman on a one-to one basis.
This feedback drew on the merger as explained below.
comments gathered by IAL during their interviews.
The Senior Independent Director also provided feedback to the Chairman.
Remuneration Committee Following on from this, it is proposed that later in 2017, there will Thomas Werner joined the Committee at completion of the merger be a formal peer evaluation conducted by Board members and with Skyepharma PLC.
The following were then members: Susan Foden facilitated by IAL on a strictly confidential basis.
Chair, Bruno Angelici, Neil Warner and Thomas Werner.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer may be invited to attend The Board looks forward to developing plans and taking action to Committee meetings, other than when their own remuneration is implement recommendations made by the independent evaluator discussed.
No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
and will further report on these actions in next years report.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary acted as Secretary of Register of conflicts and time commitments the Committee.
The Board formally considers any potential conflicts between a The Remuneration Committees full report appears on pages 63 to 84.
Any situational conflicts must be notified to the Board for authorisation as and when they arise, notwithstanding Audit Committee a Directors general duty to avoid such conflicts.
Transactional During the period, Thomas Werner and Frank Condella, the conflicts must be notified to the Board in person or in writing at Non-Executive Directors who joined the Board following the merger, thenext meeting, where the Board can decide, in the absence of became members along with the existing Non-Executive Director, the Director concerned, whether or not toauthorise such conflict.
Susan Foden stepped down from the Committee.
Ifsuch conflict is approved, depending on the matter, action would The following were then members of the Audit Committee: Neil Warner be taken: for example, the Director concerned may not receive Chair, Per-Olof Andersson, Frank Condella and Thomas Werner.
related Board papers, be present in the Board meeting for any The Board and Mr Condella noted that some shareholders had related discussion or participate in any vote on the matters raised some concerns relating to his independence due to his concerned.
At no time during the period did any Director hold a length of tenure at Skyepharma, including as an executive director.
material interest in any contract of significance with the Company After taking these views into account and to ensure that the or any of its subsidiaries, other than service contracts and Committee be considered as consisting solely of independent insurance and indemnification arrangements.
Non-Executive Directors, Mr Condella will step down from the Prior to finalising an appointment, a new Director is required to Committee from the 2017 AGM.
confirm his existing appointments and discuss the time commitment The Committee continued to meet the UK Corporate Governance required to deal appropriately with the affairs of the Group.
At each Codes requirements that at least one member should have recent Board meeting, Directors are requested to inform the Board if there and relevant financial experience and that, as a body, the Committee are any changes in their commitments or other appointments.
Significant has sufficient experience relevant to the pharmaceutical business changes in a Directors outside commitments are discussed with sector.
Mr Warner is considered as having recent and relevant the Board prior to a Director accepting further appointments.
financial experience being a chartered accountant, a current and No transactional conflicts arose in the period and no further actions past chairman of other listed company audit committees and has were required following changes in Board members commitments.
previously been finance director of a listed company.
Policy on other appointments In order to facilitate good information flows and provide challenge The Board believes that Directors should be able to accept other where appropriate, the Committee invited the Chief Executive Officer, appointments where no significant actual or potential conflicts of Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Company Secretary, interest arise and provided that the Director is able to maintain their Group Financial Controller and senior representatives of the external time commitments to the Company.
These other appointments auditor to attend.
The Committee held regular discussions with the enable Directors to develop further skills and experience from external auditor independently of Group management.
The General which the Company benefits, provided that such commitments Counsel and Company Secretary acted as Secretary to the Committee.
donot impinge on their duties to the Company.
The Audit Committees report including a review of its activities in Details of any appointments held by each Director are listed under the period is on pages 60 to 62. their biographies on pages 52 and 53.
There are no significant actual or potential conflicts of interest arising from any appointments held by Directors.
Their commitments were reviewed at each Boardmeeting.
Although no Executive Director held an external non-executive position, this would be considered as part of their future development.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Nomination Committee Going concern and viability assessment Per-Olof Andersson and Frank Condella joined the Committee Vecturas business activities, together with the factors likely to affect following the merger and Neil Warner stepped down.
The following its future development, performance and position, are provided in were then members: Bruno Angelici Chair, Per-Olof Andersson, the Strategic report.
The Strategic report also describes the Groups Frank Condella and Susan Foden.
The General Counsel and Company financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, with further Secretary acted as Secretary to the Committee.
information provided in the financial statements.
The Directors consider that, having reviewed current performance and forecasts Its work and activities is further described in its report on page 59. for the enlarged Group, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operations for Relations with shareholders theforeseeable future.
Accordingly Vectura continues to adopt Executive Management runs an extensive programme of roadshows thegoing concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
and ad hoc meetings with both existing and potential new shareholders.
In 2016, meetings were held in London, Edinburgh, the United States, In relation to the Companys viability, the Directors have examined Switzerland and Germany as well as calls with potential investors the prospects of the Company and the Group and consider that, inother countries.
Executive Management also presented regularly inaccordance with the Code, a three-year assessment period is at investor and industry conferences.
Both the Chairman and appropriate being significantly longer than twelve months but SeniorIndependent Director have held meetings with shareholders providing some certainty.
In considering the appropriate time independently of Executive Directors during the year and are period, the Audit Committee and Board took into account the risks regularly available for such meetings if requested.
facing the Group, as a newly merged entity, its forecasting period and business plans.
The Company holds regular capital markets days with analysts and institutional investors and holds updates post results.
These provide Further information and the Companys full Statement of viability a detailed review of the Groups development pipeline as well an and going concern is contained on page 35. update of the progress of the Groups key growth drivers and strategy.
The presentations from the update meeting held on 23 November 2016 meeting were made available to all shareholders via the Companys website.
The Board also receives regular updates from its brokers on the views of shareholders about the Company and its market toensure that the Non-Executive Directors in particular gain an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
The Company welcomes dialogue with investors, including retail investors, for which the AGM is an opportunity to meet with the Directors and put questions to the Board.
58 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016
