GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Notwithstanding that this has been a year of key management changes and increased M&A activity, the business has continued to display strong financial performance and has been well controlled.
Neil Warner Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear shareholder Role and responsibilities On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Vecturas The Committee operates under written terms of reference, which AuditCommittee the Committee report for the year ended are modelled on the Code and are available on the Company website, 31March 2016. www.
The Committee advises the Board as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken asa whole, are fair, balanced This report provides insight into the Committees major activities and understandable and provide theinformation necessary for and its deliberations during the year under review.
As a Committee, shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model we have remained focused on our key priorities which include and strategy.
reviewing the Groups financial reporting governance processes toensure that they remain relevant, robust and of a high standard.
The Committee reviews the annual and half-year financial statements.
In reviewing these reports, the Committee considers whether the The Committee meets at key times within the Groups reporting cycle accounting policies applied during the preparation of the information and I meet with management on an ad-hoc basis.
I am satisfied are consistent year on year and whether the disclosures made are that our activities have provided the Committee with a sound appropriate, complete and in compliance with the relevant financial understanding of the key matters impacting the Group during reporting standards, corporate governance standards and regulatory FY2015 16 and this understanding, supported by oversight requirements.
TheCommittee also considers the significant areas in oftheGroups governance and controls processes, has enabled which judgement has been applied in the preparation of the financial theCommittee to reach the conclusions set out in this report.
In fulfilling this role, itsupports the Board in discharging I hope you will find this report helpful in understanding the work its responsibilities in relation tothe Groups external financial ofthe Committee.
The Committee manages the relationship with the external auditor on behalf of the Board.
During the year, the Committee reviews and monitors the independence of the external auditor and considers Neil Warner the effectiveness of the external audit process.
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee is responsible for developing and implementing the Groups 25 May 2016 policy on non-audit services.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment and, where appropriate, reappointment of the external auditor and it approves the external auditors terms of engagement.
On an annual basis, the Committee will consider the need for an internal audit function and will make recommendations to the Board accordingly.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups financial risk management and internalcontrol systems.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on all significant matters reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee has access to the external auditor and, if considered necessary, is authorised to obtain external professional advice including, without limitation, legal and accounting advice to assist in the performance of its duties.
No such advice has been sought during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 61 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Membership and meetings During the year, the Committee reviewed the judgements exercised In accordance with the Code, the Audit Committee comprises three by management in determining when to recognise key milestone independent Non-Executive Directors: Neil Warner, Dr John Brown events, particularly those milestones that were achieved around a and DrSusan Foden.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the period end.
The Committee also discussed each significant milestone Committee have the breadth of knowledge and experience of the achieved during the year with the external auditor.
Following Groups business, financial dynamics and the risks facing the Group discussions held and the review performed, the Committee is to effectively fulfil the Committees responsibilities.
satisfied that the treatment adopted by management is reasonable and in compliance with IAS 18 and Vecturas accounting policies.
The Committee is chaired by Neil Warner, who is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants with significant recent and This continued to be an area of increased focus during FY 2015 16, relevant financial experience.
Details of Neil Warners financial asthe Group now receives significant royalty streams from recently experience are set out in his biography on page 53. launched products.
Royalty revenue recognised by the Group is based of upon information provided to Vectura by its partners and Vectura The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee does not have any direct visibility over the level ofproduct sales and the Executive Directors also attend Committee meetings at the being made by its partners.
The controls around completeness invitation of the Chairman.
So as to facilitate open and unreserved ofroyalty revenue and underlying royalty revenue trends were discussion, the Committee meets with the external auditor at least discussed with management and the auditor, and the Committee twice a year without management being present.
The Committee are satisfied that royalty revenue recognised is appropriate and Chairman keeps in touch, as required, with the key people involved in-line with IAS 18. in the Groups governance, including the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Goodwill impairment external audit lead partner.
During the year, particular attention was paid to the carrying value of goodwill.
Goodwill associated with the acquisitions of Innovata, The composition of the Committee is reviewed annually to ensure Vectura Delivery Devices VDD and Co-ordinated Drug Development that it contains the appropriate balance of knowledge, skills and since renamed Vectura Limited totals 49.6m and, as such, it represents experience to support the business.
one of the largest assets on the Groups balance sheet.
As in the Details of the number of meetings held by the Committee prior year, for the purposes of impairment testing, management andattendance thereat is detailed on page 56. has determined that there is only one cash-generating unit CGU relating to these assets.
Member Date of appointment N W Warner Chair 1 February 2011 The Group has a further goodwill balance of 7.8m 9.9m relating to theacquisition of Activaero GmbH and this represents the Groups J R Brown 13 May 2004 second CGU.
S E Foden 18 January 2007 Both CGUs were tested for impairment independently.
Financial reporting The Committee reviewed the judgements and assumptions underlying As explained above, the Committee is responsible for monitoring the models used to support the carrying value of goodwill in the the integrity of the Groups financial statements and reviewing consolidated balance sheet.
The primary judgement areas relate to thesignificant judgements applied in the preparation of financial the achievability of long-term business plans and the discount rates information.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Interim applied to the relevant cash flows.
Management prepared a presentation Report for the period ended 30 September 2015, and the preliminary to the Board as a whole which outlined the key assumptions and announcement and Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended sensitivities included within the Groups long-term forecasts.
TheAudit Committee challenged these assumptions, scenarios andsensitivities to assess whether managements assumptions The significant issues considered and the conclusions reached inrespect of Goodwill impairment testing were fair and balanced.
bythe Committee are set out below.
The carrying value of goodwill was also a key area of focus for Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements theexternal audit team and, accordingly, Deloitte LLP Deloitte Revenue recognition provided a detailed report to the Committee regarding managements As disclosed on page 109 of this report, the Group has five revenue assumptions and conclusions.
This report also included the results streams, being royalty income, product licensing milestone income, of sensitivity testing performed, which assessed whether a reasonably technology licensing milestone income, development services and possible change in a key assumption could result in an impairment device sales.
The Committee noted that there were no disagreements between the conclusions of management and the conclusions made by the external auditor.
Following a review of the evidence provided, and discussions with both management and the audit team, the Committee is satisfied that no impairment charge should be recorded in FY 2015 16 and that the disclosures made in the financial statements are appropriate.
62 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Going concern and viability Audit engagement partner rotation Following updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Deloitte adheres to a rotation policy which is in accordance with the the Committee spent time ensuring that the additional requirements ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board the APB and the introduced by the Code were met by the Group.
In particular, the Group engagement partner is rotated every five years.
David Hedditch, Committee spent time considering the processes supporting the the current engagement partner, was appointed during the 2012 13 Groups longer-term solvency and viability which support the new financial year and therefore the next rotation is scheduled to take viability statement.
The Committee determined that the processes place in time for the 2017 18 financial year audit.
in place were sufficient and robust to enable the Directors to make Independence and non-audit work performed by the external auditor a viability assessment over a three-year period.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
On an annual Risk management and internal control basis, the auditor confirms its policies for ensuring auditor independence The Board as a whole, including the Audit Committee members, and provides the Committee with a confirmation that it continues to considers the nature and extent of Vecturas financial risk management be independent in respect of the forthcoming audit engagement.
framework and the risk profile that is acceptable to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Vecturas policy on the provision of non-audit services is a key adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management and mechanism which safeguards the independence of the external internal control systems.
In order to discharge this responsibility, auditor.
The provision of non-audit services by the auditor is governed the Committee receives reports from Vecturas management team by a non-audit services policy, which is reviewed by the Committee and the external auditor as appropriate.
TheCommittee has reviewed on an annual basis.
The policy sets out the circumstances in which the process for identification, assessment and reporting of the the external auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit Groups principal risks set out on pages 22 to 29. services and the overriding purpose of the policy is to ensure that the auditor does not provide a service that: Each year, the Audit Committee considers the need for an internal audit function and has concluded that, given the size of the Groups creates a mutuality of interest: operations at this time, it is not necessary.
places the auditor in a position of auditing their own work: Whistleblowing results in the auditor acting as a Vectura manager or employee: or The Audit Committee reviews arrangements by which staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties places the auditor in a position to advocate for Vectura.
in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committees Vectura does not impose an automatic restriction on the provision objective is to ensure that arrangements are in place for the of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The external auditor proportionate and independent investigation of such matters iseligible for selection to provide non-audit services that are not, andfor appropriate follow-up action.
and are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, The Group has a formal whistleblowing policy, which is available provided that the auditor has the skill, competence and integrity toall staff via the Groups intranet.
tocarry out the work in the best interest of the Group.
Where appropriate, services are tendered prior to awarding work to UK Bribery Act theexternal auditor.
The Group has continued to operate its anti-bribery policy, introduced in 2010, in response to the UK Bribery Act 2010.
This has included During the year, Deloitte undertook non-audit services and the the conduct of due diligence on new key business partners who relevant fees are disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements.
may act on behalf of the Group in higher risk areas of business.
These services were provided in compliance with the policy outlined above and no actual conflicts of interest were found to External audit exist between the audit work and the non-audit work performed, The external auditor, Deloitte, is engaged to express an opinion which related to the interim financial report and work undertaken onthe Groups and the Companys financial statements.
as reporting accountant to support the Prospectus in respect of the The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations proposed merger with Skyepharma PLC.
The Committee considered to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and removal that it was appropriate for the auditor to undertake these services ofthe external auditor.
When considering reappointment, the given the nature of the work to be performed.
During a planning Committee considers the independence of the audit firm and meeting held in February 2016, the external auditor confirmed theeffectiveness of the overall external audit process.
tothe Audit Committee that it had met its statutory requirements withregard to independence.
This conclusion was reaffirmed during the Audit Committee meeting held as part of year end finalisation procedures.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee confirms that the Group continues to receive an independent audit service.
On this basis, the Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte be reappointed as the Groups auditor for a further year.
This recommendation has been accepted by the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 63 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Statement of compliance The new European Union Audit Directive and Regulation has been The Group confirms compliance with the terms of The Statutory finalised and itsrequirements have to be in place in the UK by Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation 16June 2016.
Although the UK legislation has yet to be finalised, Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit we anticipate that it will set significant restrictions on the non-audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 throughout the year.
services that our auditor will be able to supply to the Group from 1April 2017.
Effectiveness The Committee believes it is in the best interest of the Group and The Committee places great importance on ensuring that there itsstakeholders to ensure that the pool of major accountancy firms arehigh standards of audit quality and effectiveness in the external who would be able to tender for the audit is as wide as possible.
The effectiveness of the external audit process is Accordingly, the Committee will continue to monitor any future reviewed on an annual basis, and this includes consideration of the services to be provided by appropriate accountancy services to qualification, expertise, resources, remuneration and independence maintain an adequate level of independence to allow such firms of the auditor.
Where appropriate, actions are agreed in respect of totender as required.
any issues identified and these are monitored for progress.
There are no contractual restrictions in place that would restrict At the conclusion of the 2015 16 financial year audit, the Committee thechoice of the external auditor.
performed a formal evaluation of the performance of the external auditor.
In performing this evaluation, the Committee worked Committee effectiveness review withthe external auditor, Executive Directors and relevant senior During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness as part management.
In addition to this, the Committee performs its own of the overall Board evaluation process.
The Committee considered ongoing evaluation of audit quality and effectiveness, taking into that it acted transparently and, given the number of Committee and account such matters as the quality of reporting to the Committee Board meetings scheduled throughout the financial year, maintained by the external auditor, the level and quality of the interactions a thorough understanding of the Group and its business.
The results between the Committee and the audit partner and the audit quality of the review were advised to the Board.
inspection report issued by the FRC with regard to Deloitte.
Tendering Deloitte has been Vecturas auditor since 2007 following its full listing on the London Stock Exchange.
During that time, the audit Neil Warner has not been formally tendered.
Following the introduction of the Chairman of the Audit Committee audit tendering provisions in the Code, the Committee annually 25 May 2016 considers if the audit should be put out to tender.
The Committee has not recommended that the audit be put out to tender upon conclusion of the 2015 16 audit, but the Committee will continue tomonitor this requirement.
A mandatory tender is expected to berequired post the FY 2016 17 audit.
64 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
