GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND COMPOSITION Management and corporate structure Shareholders The Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Officer page 61 page 65 page 67 Executive Leadership Team Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out the The principles and provisions of the Code cover five areas: leadership standards of good practice in relation to corporate governance of the Company, effectiveness of the Board, accountability of the to be applied by companies with a listing on the Board, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The Board London Stock Exchange.
A copy of the Code can be found on confirms that Vectura has fully complied with the principles and the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
provisions set out in the Code throughout the year under review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Leadership Key responsibilities The Board of Directors Whilst the Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Board Committees, there are certain matters that are considered to be The Board is collectively responsible for the leadership, direction and sustainable long-term success of Vectura.
soimportant to the long-term success of Vectura that they are reserved for Board decision and approval.
Such matters include: A well balanced Board is vital to ensure that there is appropriate rigour and challenge in the decision-making process.
Vecturas approving business and strategic plans: Board is comprised of Directors from various backgrounds who approving budgets and monitoring performance against them: have a breadth of professional and sector skills and experience.
approving significant acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure: During the year ended 31 March 2016, Vecturas Board, headed by the Chairman, was comprised of three Executive Directors and four approving Vecturas Interim Report and Annual Report and Accounts: Non-Executive Directors who were determined by the Board to be management of Vecturas risk profile: independent.
The Executive Directors are responsible for Vecturas business operations, whereas the Non-Executive Directors are Executive appointments and remuneration: and responsible for bringing independent and objective judgement monitoring Vecturas corporate governance arrangements.
Chairman Bruno Angelici Board members Executive Chris Blackwell to 30 June 2015 James Ward-Lilley from 24 September 2015 Trevor Phillips Andrew Oakley Board members Non-Executive John Brown Susan Foden Neil Warner Per-Olof Andersson Board and Committee meetings The Board holds formal meetings on a bi-monthly basis, with further meetings being called when circumstances or urgent business dictates.
Additional meetings may be held via conference call.
The Board met ten times during the year.
Details of Directors attendance at these meetings and meetings of the Boards sub Committees are set out below.
Intheevent that a Director is unavailable to attend a Board meeting, or to attend by telephone link, he or she will communicate their viewson items to be raised at the meeting through the Chairman.
The Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings attended held whilst the Meetings Meetings Meetings Director was a attended attended attended Board member held held held Bruno Angelici Chair 10 10 n a 2 2 6 6 Chris Blackwell 2 3 n a n a n a James Ward-Lilley 5 5 n a n a n a Trevor Phillips 9 10 n a n a n a Andrew Oakley 10 10 n a n a n a John Brown 10 10 3 3 2 2 6 6 Neil Warner 10 10 3 3 2 2 6 6 Per-Olof Andersson 10 10 3 3 n a 4 4 Susan Foden 10 10 3 3 2 2 6 6 56 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Board agenda Executive Leadership Team The Boards main activities during the year are described below: The Board has delegated responsibility for day-to-day management of Vectura to the ELT.
The ELT is comprised of the Chief Executive review and approval of Vecturas strategy: Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operations Officer, the regular updates on business performance and market Chief Corporate Development Officer, the Chief Commercial Officer and the Director of Human Resources.
conditions: The ELT is responsible for developing the strategy approved by the review of project and pipeline progress: Board and, in particular, is responsible for ensuring that the Groups approval of the budget for FY 2015 16: budget and forecasts are properly prepared, that targets are met and that the business is managed and developed within the overall review of progress against the approved budget for FY 2016 17: Board-approved budget.
Variations from the budget and changes internally facilitated review of Board effectiveness: instrategy require approval of the Board.
approval of the corporate goals: The ELT normally has ten to twelve formal meetings during the year, in addition to weekly update calls.
Other senior operational appointment of James Ward-Lilley as Chief Executive Officer: and personnel also attend meetings of the ELT as appropriate.
review and approval of proposal to merge with Skyepharma.
Brief biographies of the ELT members are set out on pages 54.
Information and support Non-Executive Directors To enable the Board to function effectively and to assist Directors The duties of the Non-Executive Directors include contributing to the indischarging their responsibilities, full and timely access is given formulation of Vecturas strategy, shaping proposals on succession toall relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this planning and constructively challenging the Executive Directors consists of a formal agenda and a comprehensive set of papers, where they consider it to be appropriate.
Vecturas Non-Executive including regular business progress reports.
An established Directors are all experienced and influential individuals and their procedure is in place to ensure that such information is provided, skills and expertise facilitate the effective functioning of the Board, toDirectors in a timely manner in advance of meetings.
ensuring that all relevant matters are fully debated and that no one Roles and responsibilities individual can dominate the Boards decision-making process.
Division of responsibilities between the Chairman Our Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to meet the Chairman andtheChiefExecutive Officer without the presence of Executive Directors, as appropriate.
Such Clear roles and responsibilities are fundamental to the effective running meetings between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors of the Board.
Whilst maintaining a close working relationship, our took place during the year and included discussions relating to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have clearly defined and eachExecutive Directors performance.
These roles are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
Biographies of the Non-Executive Directors can be found on pages52 to 53.
The Chairman Our independent Chairman, Bruno Angelici, is responsible for Senior Independent Director theeffective running of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness Throughout the fiscal year 2015 16 Dr John Brown has been and inall aspects of its role, in particular for creating the conditions continues in the role of Senior Independent Director and is available foroverall Board and individual effectiveness by: to help shareholders with concerns that they cannot resolve through our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or providing a sounding board to the Chief Executive Officer: for which such a contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
setting the agenda, style and tone of Board meetings: The Senior Independent Director is responsible for performing ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part anannual review of the performance of the Chairman and he is inthedevelopment of corporate strategy: available to act as an intermediary for Directors, if necessary.
It is Vecturas intention that DrJohn Brown will stand down from ensuring the highest standards of leadership and governance the Board within one month after the completion of the merger.
atBoard level: ensuring that the performance of the Board, its Committees andindividual Directors are evaluated each year: and ensuring effective communications with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer Our Chief Executive Officer, James Ward-Lilley, is responsible for all aspects of the operation and management of Vectura and its business, within the authorities delegated to him by the Board.
In executing this role, James is responsible for developing the Groups long-term strategic direction and strategy for consideration and approval bythe Board.
He is also responsible for the Groups operations, strategy implementation and achievement of our operational andfinancial targets.
James is supported in his role by other members of the Executive Leadership Team the ELT.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Effectiveness Election and re-election Independence All Directors have service agreements with indefinite terms, with The Board has determined that at least half of the Board, excluding twelve months notice for Executive Directors, three months notice the Chairman, is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
for Non-Executive Directors and six months notice in the case of the Chairman.
Key considerations are set out below: Directors are proposed for re-election annually.
In accordance with Share options the Code, Non-Executive Directors who have served more than nine The holding of share options by Non-Executive Directors could years onthe Board are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
be, amongst other things, relevant in determining whether a Non-Executive Director is independent.
As at 31 March 2016, Andrew Oakley, Vecturas CFO and Company Secretary, will leave noNon-Executive Directors hold share options in Vectura.
the Vectura Board upon completion of the proposed merger with Thereisno intention to award any further options to any Skyepharma.
Andrew will be replaced on the Board byAndrew Derodra, Non-Executive Director.
Skyepharmas CFO, who will become CFO ofVectura.
At the same time, Vectura will appoint Frank Condella and Dr Thomas Werner Material business relationships asNon-Executives Directors of the Board.
Other factors that may reflect on the independence of a Non-Executive Director include any material business relationships with the Group.
It is Vecturas intention that Dr John Brown will stand down from There were no such relationships during the year up until the date the Board within one month after the completion of the merger of this report, or in the prior year.
andthere will be an appropriately managed process for the departure of one additional existing Vectura Board member, Length of service toreduce the size of the Board to eight within 18 months of The Code indicates that serving more than nine years as a completion of the proposed merger.
Non-Executive Director could be relevant to the determination ofaNon-Executive Directors independence.
Notwithstanding The performance of all of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, thefact that both John Brown and Sue Foden have been who are being proposed for re-election, at the Annual General Non-Executive Directors for in excess of nine years, the Board, Meeting AGM, has been evaluated and it has been determined having evaluated their performance, considers that they continue thatthey continue to perform effectively and show full commitment to be fully independent in character and judgement when to their roles on the Board.
In accordance with our Articles of discharging their duties and responsibilities.
Association and assuming the merger with Skyepharma completes, Frank Condella and Dr Thomas Werner, currently Non-Executive Performance evaluation Directors of Skyepharma PLC and Andrew Derodra, currently the The Board has a process for evaluating its own performance and that Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director ofSkyepharma, will of its Committees and individual Directors, including the Chairman.
also beproposed for election as Directors attheforthcoming AGM.
An annual formal evaluation takes place through an appraisal process and informal evaluation discussions take place on a regular basis Board appointments and succession throughout the year.
There are formal, rigorous and transparent procedures for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Shortlisted candidates During the year, a questionnaire was circulated for all Board members are interviewed by the Chairman of the Board and by the individual to answer and comment upon specific questions covering specific members of the Nomination Committee.
These included the responsibilities and the roles of individual candidates are then circulated to all members of the Nomination Directors and the Board as a whole, the conduct of Board meetings Committee for consideration, before a recommendation is made and Committees of the Board, the Boards role in monitoring the tothe Board.
performance of the Group and corporate governance practices.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity within all levels A detailed, anonymised analysis of the replies to the questionnaire, ofthe Group and it recognises that the Group, its shareholders and together with conclusions drawn from such analysis, was prepared other stakeholders are best served by a Board which is diverse in by the Companys consultant and considered by the Board.
skills, experience and background, including gender.
Accordingly, Following this review, it was concluded that the Board and Committees diversity is considered when making appointments to the Board: remained effective and that individual members of the Board have however, any appointments are ultimately made on merit against the necessary skills and expertise to discharge their responsibilities.
It was noted that the Board has both formal and informal meetings, The recruitment process for Executive and Non-Executive Directors and this balance provides the dynamics for an effective Board.
focuses on ensuring that the Board as a whole displays the balance of skills necessary to deliver Vecturas strategy.
58 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Induction and development The Groups key systems of internal control include: It is vital that Directors have a full understanding of the Group Organisational structure: The Groups organisational structure andits operations.
Therefore, upon appointment each Director has clearly established responsibilities and lines of accountability.
undergoes a formal induction programme, which includes briefing The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate materials tailored to his or her particular Board responsibilities.
skills, knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
NewDirectors meet with Board members and executive management as part of their induction process and tours of the Groups main Documented policies and procedures: facilities are scheduled to provide them with the opportunity to The Group has documented quality procedures to ensure the meet with operational management.
These are subject to All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company periodic review to ensure current standards of quality compliance Secretary, who ensures that Directors take independent professional are maintained.
A quality group monitors compliance with good advice, at Vecturas expense, when it is judged necessary in order laboratory practice, good clinical practice and good manufacturing for them to discharge their responsibilities.
practice through the implementation of a compliance programme for in-house and contracted-out activities.
Directors also receive regular updates on changes and developments within the business as well as information regarding legislative and The Group has a formal Health and Safety Committee regulatory changes.
During the annual Board effectiveness review, all comprising appropriate members of management and Directors are encouraged to identify any further training requirements otheremployees tobe responsible for these issues.
which they feel would assist them in discharging their duties.
The Group has formal procedures to ensure appropriate Accountability security of documents and proprietary information.
The Board is committed to providing a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
For information The Group has a formal policy in place regarding share regarding the Directors responsibility to prepare financial statements, dealingin Vectura Group plc shares by employees and please refer to the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 91. theirconnected persons.
The Independent auditors report includes a statement on the The Group has a comprehensive financial planning and auditors reporting responsibilities.
accounting framework which includes a robust budgeting The measures in place to ensure the auditors independence are set and forecasting system.
Detailed monthly management out in the Audit Committee report on page 63. accounts are prepared and reports are provided to the Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal showing actual results against budget and forecast results, control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
highlighting and explaining significant variances.
Variance Indischarging that responsibility, the Board confirms that it has reports are also provided to, and discussed with, the established the procedures necessary to comply with the Code.
Employees are required to follow clearly defined internal procedures The Group has specific controls in place regarding the production and policies appropriate to the business and their position within the of consolidated financial information.
These procedures are regularly reviewed by the Board.
procedures and validation and review of information.
Risk management The Group has clear requirements for the approval and Vectura adopts a robust risk management process which is control of expenditure.
Material or strategic investment reviewed on a regular basis.
This process is outlined on pages 20 decisions are subject to formal approval by the Board.
Such a process is designed to manage rather Day-to-day expenditure is controlled using predetermined than eliminate the riskof failure to achieve business objectives and authorisation limits which are approved by the ELT in can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against accordance with tolerance limits agreed with the Board.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of a control procedure should not exceed Whistleblowing policy: the Group has a formalised the expected benefits.
The significant risks identified are documented whistleblowing policy which is available to all staff via the on pages 22 to 29 of this Annual Report.
This policy provides a mechanism through which staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about Internal control The Groups internal controls are regularly reviewed as part of the possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or risk management process.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups other matters.
internal financial control system on an annual basis and makes There have been no significant internal control failings or weaknesses recommendations to the Board regarding any improvements that throughout the year ended 31 March 2016 and up to the date of are required.
The Board also carries out reviews of the non-financial publication of this report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Remuneration All periodic reports and accounts are made available to shareholders The Board has adopted remuneration policies that are considered on the website and paper copies are mailed to those shareholders sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the who have elected to receive them.
Separate announcements of all highest calibre who are capable of delivering the Groups strategic material events are made as necessary by press release.
Remuneration packages are structured in such a way announcements are published on the website without delay along asto link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
with webcasts of both the Interim and Annual Report presentations.
Forfurther details, please refer to the Remuneration report The terms of reference of each of the Boards three Committees setouton pages 67 to 88. and certain corporate governance documents are also published onthe Groups website.
Relations with shareholders Private shareholders are encouraged to express their views and Shareholder relations concerns either in person at the AGM or by e-mail using the links The Board recognises the importance of regular dialogue with provided on the Groups website.
shareholders and regular meetings between institutional shareholders and Executive Directors are held throughout the year.
The Chief Constructive use of the AGM Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer give annual and The Board seeks to use the AGM together with other forums to half-yearly presentations to institutional investors, analysts and communicate with investors and encourage their participation by themedia.
Periodic site visits are held, as considered appropriate.
making business presentations and inviting shareholder questions.
The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Vecturas brokers collate anonymous feedback after investor are present at the AGM to answer questions through the Chairman presentations.
This feedback is then circulated to the Board for of the Board.
Through this programme of regular dialogue, theExecutive Directors and the Board are able to develop an Notice of the meeting is posted to shareholders not less than understanding of shareholder views and objectives and create 20working days prior to the date of the AGM.
The information amutual understanding of the Companys strategy.
sentto shareholders includes a summary of the business to be covered at the AGM, where a separate resolution is prepared for All meetings with shareholders are held in such a way as to protect each substantive matter.
Results of voting at the AGM are posted price sensitive information that has not already been made generally on the Groups website as soon as they are available.
available to the Companys shareholders and similar guidelines apply to communications between the Company and other parties, such as financial analysts, brokers and the media.
In addition, all Non-Executive Directors have developed an understanding of the views of shareholders through corporate broker briefings and review of issued analyst notes.
The Chairman seeks to meet with major shareholders on a regular basis and Non-Executive Directors meet with major shareholders as required.
Where material changes in respect of remuneration schemes or governance structures are proposed, the Board seeks to consult with its major shareholders before implementing such changes.
The Company views its website www.
com as an important investor relations tool, particularly for private investors.
In line with best practice, the website is regularly updated, ensuring that information relating to the Group and its activities is easily accessible.
The website provides an overview of the business including its strategy, products and objectives.
60 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
