Governance 63 Governance Report The Board of Vesuvius plc the Company is responsible for the performance of the Group.
It is responsible for effective risk Groups system of corporate governance and is committed to assessment and management.
maintaining high standards of governance and to developing them The Board to comply with best practice.
This report describes the Companys corporate governance structure and explains how, during the year The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and ended 31 December 2016, Vesuvius applied the Main Principles of delegates certain matters to its Committees.
It is anticipated that the applicable September 2014 edition of the UK Corporate the Board will convene on seven occasions during 2017, holding Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the ad hoc meetings to consider non-scheduled business if required.
Where applicable, Vesuvius has also applied the revisions The Chairman and Chief Executive introduced in the April 2016 version of the Code, which will apply for Vesuvius plcs financial year ending 31 December 2017.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Throughout the year and up until the date of this report, Vesuvius Chief Executive is set out in writing and was reviewed during the was in full compliance with the requirements of the Code.
year as part of the Companys annual corporate governance review.
The interactions in the governance A copy of the Code can be found on the FRC website at: process are shown in the schematic below.
pdf Board Committees Roles and Responsibilities of the Board The principal governance Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each Committee Ultimate responsibility for the management of the Group rests has written terms of reference, which were reviewed and updated, with the Board of Directors.
where appropriate, during the year.
These are available to view The Board focuses primarily upon strategic and policy issues and is on the Companys website www.
responsible for the Groups long-term success.
It sets the Groups For biographical details see Board of Directors on pages 22 and 23. strategy, oversees the allocation of resources and monitors the Board Governance Committees Administrative Committees In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities Audit Committee Chairman: on an ad hoc basis to a Finance Committee and Share To monitor the integrity of financial Douglas Hurt Scheme Committee, which operate in accordance with reporting and to assist the Board the delegated authority agreed by the Board.
in its review of the effectiveness of Membership: the Groups internal controls and risk All independent management systems Non-executive Directors Finance Committee Chairman: Remuneration Committee Chairman: To determine the appropriate Jane Hinkley To approve speci c funding John McDonough, and Treasury-related matters Chairman remuneration packages for the Groups Chairman, Executive Directors Membership: in accordance with the Groups delegated authorities or as Membership: and Company Secretary, and to All independent recommend and monitor the level Non-executive Directors delegated by the Board Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer and Group and structure of remuneration for other senior management Head of Corporate Finance Nomination Committee Chairman: Share Scheme Committee Chairman: To advise the Board on appointments, John McDonough, Chairman To facilitate the administration of Any Board member except when considering his retirements and resignations from the Companys share schemes own succession, in which case the Board and its Committees and Membership: the Committee ischaired by an appropriate Non-executive Director to review succession planning and Any two Directors or talent development for the Board and a Director and the Membership: senior management.
Company Secretary Chairman and any three Non-executive Directors Group Executive Committee The Group also operates a Group Executive Committee GEC, which is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive and assists him in discharging his responsibilities.
The GEC comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer, the four business unit Presidents, the President Vesuvius North Asia, the Vice President Human Resources, the Chief Technology Of cer, the President Operations and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The GEC met five times during 2016 and is scheduled to meet six times during 2017.
Its meetings are held at the London head of ce and major operational sites.
Vesuvius plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report continued Governance Structure The Board Responsible for Group strategy, risk management, succession and policy issues.
Sets the tone, values and culture for the Group.
Monitors the Groups progress against the targets set Chairman Chief Executive Provides leadership and guidance for the Develops strategy for review and approval Board, promoting a high standard of corporate of the Board.
Directs, monitors and maintains governance.
Sets the Board agenda and the operational performance of the Company.
Independent on Responsible for the application of Group policies, appointment, he is the link between the implementation of Group strategy and the Executive and Non-executive Directors resources for their delivery.
Accountable to the Board for Group performance Senior Independent Director Non-executive Directors Company Secretary Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, Exercise a strong, independent voice, challenging Advises the Chairman on governance, together an alternative contact for shareholders and an and supporting Executive Directors.
Scrutinise with updates on regulatory and compliance intermediary for other Non-executive Directors.
performance against objectives and monitor matters.
Supports the Board agenda with Leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman financial reporting.
Monitor and oversee risks clear information ow.
Acts as a link between and recruitment process for his her replacement, and controls, determine Executive Director the Board and its Committees and between when required remuneration and manage Board succession Non-executive Directors and senior management through their Committee responsibilities Board and Committee Attendance The attendance of Directors at the Board meetings and at meetings of the principal Committees of which they are members held during 2016 is shown in the table below.
The maximum number of meetings in the period during which the individual was a Board or Committee member is shown in brackets.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman John McDonough CBE 8 8 4 4 Executive Directors Franois Wanecq 8 8 Guy Young 8 8 Non-executive Directors Nelda Connors 6 6 3 3 2 2 2 2 Christer Gardell 7 8 4 4 Hock Goh 8 8 5 5 4 4 4 4 Jane Hinkley 7 8 5 5 4 4 4 4 Douglas Hurt 8 8 5 5 4 4 4 4 Nelda Connors stepped down from the Board with effect from 30 September 2016.
Christer Gardell and Jane Hinkley were unable to make an additional Board meeting, scheduled at short notice, due to prior engagements.
To the extent that Directors are unable to attend scheduled meetings, or additional meetings called on short notice, they receive the papers in advance and relay their comments to the Chairman for communication at the meeting.
The Chairman follows up after the meeting in relation to the decisions taken.
In 2016, the Chairman sought Christer Gardell and Jane Hinkleys views on the matters to be discussed at the Board meeting they were due to miss, prior to the meeting, and provided feedback to them on the outcome of discussions.
Governance 65 of Cevian Capital which holds 21.11% of Vesuvius issued ordinary Board Eff ectiveness share capital and is not considered to be independent.
He brings Board Composition a wealth of commercial acumen to the Board.
The Chairman satis ed the independence criteria on his appointment to the Board.
The Board comprises seven Directors: the Non-executive Chairman, Biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 22 and 23.
John McDonough CBE: the Chief Executive, Franois Wanecq: the Chief Financial Of cer, Guy Young: and four Non-executive Appointments to the Board Directors.
Nelda Connors also served on the Board as a Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by Non-executive Director until her retirement from the Board on the Nomination Committee.
Further information is set out in the 30 September 2016.
Douglas Hurt is the Senior Independent Nomination Committee report on pages 77 and 78.
Henry Knowles is the Company Secretary.
Time Commitment of the Chairman and the The Board focuses on ensuring that both it, and its Committees, Non-executive Directors have the appropriate range of diversity, skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each have a letter to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Board of appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of their continues to look at diversity in its broadest sense re ected in the directorship.
An indication of the anticipated time commitment range of backgrounds and experience of our Board members who is provided in any recruitment role speci cation, and each Nonare drawn from different nationalities and have managed a variety executive Directors letter of appointment provides details of the of complex global businesses.
We believe that it is important to get meetings that they are expected to attend, along with the need to the right balance of independence, skills and knowledge, both on accommodate travelling time.
Non-executive Directors are required the Board and across our businesses.
to set aside suf cient time to prepare for meetings, and regularly to refresh and update their skills and knowledge.
All Non-executive The Boards overall skills and experience, as well as Non-executive Directors have agreed to commit suf cient time for the proper Director independence, were reviewed during the year as part of performance of their responsibilities, acknowledging that this will the annual corporate governance review.
The Boards composition vary from year to year depending on the Groups activities.
The also formed part of the Board evaluation process.
During the year, Chairman in particular, dedicates a signi cant amount of time to the Board considered its diversity, size and composition to be Vesuvius in discharging his duties.
The Board notes that the appropriate for the requirements of the business.
Until Nelda Chairman holds Chairmanships other than Vesuvius, but that only Connors resignation from the Board on 30 September 2016, one of these is for a listed company.
The other two Chairmanships two of the eight Directors 25% were women and four 50% are for much smaller private companies where the time commitment were non-UK citizens.
A fundamental part of the process of nding is limited.
Neldas replacement is to ensure that the balance of skills, experience and diversity is maintained going forward.
All the Directors are expected to attend all scheduled Board and Committee meetings and any additional meetings as required.
Committee composition is set out in the relevant Committee reports.
Each Directors other signi cant commitments are disclosed to No one, other than the Committee Chairman and members of the Board during the process for their appointment and they are the Committees, is entitled to participate in meetings of the Audit, required to notify the Board of any subsequent changes.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
However, as detailed in Company has reviewed the availability of the Chairman and the the Committee reports, each of the Committees operates in an open Non-executive Directors and considers that each of them is able and consensual manner, and therefore, where the agenda permits, to, and in practice does, devote the necessary amount of time to other Directors and senior management attend by invitation.
The Board notes that Hock Goh holds a The Board considers that, for the purposes of the UK Corporate number of other directorships, but that these other commitments Governance Code, three Non-executive Directors excluding the typically only require a total of 25 days work per year, with his Non-executive Chairman, namely Hock Goh, Jane Hinkley and Chairmanship of MEC Resources Ltd only requiring preparation for Douglas Hurt, are independent of management and free from one meeting per year.
In light of this the Board believes that Hocks any business or other relationship which could affect the exercise of additional commitments do not prevent him from properly ful lling their independent judgement.
Christer Gardell is Managing Partner his duties as a Non-executive Director.
Vesuvius plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report continued Information and Support Governance in Action Board Evaluation The Board ensures that it receives, in a timely manner, information 1.
Lintstock was retained to assist with the Boards 2016 Board evaluation of an appropriate quality to enable it adequately to discharge its process.
Following its involvement in the 2015 review, the Board responsibilities.
Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of considered that Lintstock was well placed to assist the Board on both in-year performance and drawing consistent themes from year on the relevant Board or Committee meeting to enable them to make year performance.
further enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting should 2.
Following the annual Board Strategy meeting in June, Lintstock circulated they so wish.
This also allows Directors who are unable to attend a questionnaire to Board members inviting views on the Boards to submit views in advance of the meeting.
performance, focusing particularly on the conduct and content of its strategy sessions, and its activities around succession planning.
In addition to the formal Board processes, the Chief Executive provides written updates on important Company business issues 3.
Lintstock analysed the responses and presented a report to the Board.
The Board used the data collected and insights from Lintstock to formulate between meetings and the Board is provided with a monthly report action points on the Boards approach to strategy and succession planning of key financial and management information.
Regular updates for immediate implementation.
on shareholder issues are provided to the Directors, who also receive 4.
In October Lintstock issued further questionnaires to members of the copies of analysts notes issued on the Company.
For the distribution Board and the Company Secretary having consulted with the Chairman of all information, Directors have access to a secure online portal, and the Committee Chairmen on themes to explore.
Questions covered which contains a reference section containing background a wide range of measures, with particular emphasis on the Boards information on the Company.
Separate questionnaires addressed in more detail the performance of each Committee, and the effectiveness All Directors have access to the advice and services of the of the Chairman.
Each Director also completed an individual performance evaluation, covering their own contribution to the Board and their Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place personal development needs.
for Non-executive Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense.
Lintstock produced a report on the Board and Committee evaluations that was circulated to all Board and Committee members.
The output from individual Directors evaluations was used by the Chairman as the basis for one-on-one discussions.
These were conducted with A comprehensive induction programme is available to new Directors.
each Director in advance of the December Board meeting covering Board The core of the induction programme is designed in compliance performance and the development of objectives for 2017. with the UK Corporate Governance Code, and is tailored to meet 7.
The Senior Independent Director met with the Non-executive Directors the requirements of the individual appointee and the dynamics of to review the Chairman and then discussed the results of this review with the Group.
Action points and objectives were generated by the Chairman from the The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, continues to ensure Board evaluation.
These were reviewed at the December Board meeting, that there is an ongoing process to review training and development together with a review of the status of the 2015 action points.
Directors are provided with details of seminars and training of this discussion were used to set the agenda for continuous Board courses relevant to their role, and are encouraged and supported performance improvement and monitoring for 2017. by the Company in attending them.
In 2016, regulatory updates were provided as a standing item at each Board meeting in a Secretarys Report.
External input on legal and regulatory developments impacting the Board or the Company was also given with specialist advisers invited to the Board and its Committees to provide brie ngs on overall market and economic developments including Brexit, regulatory enforcement, data protection and other general governance issues.
Governance 67 Performance Evaluation Appointment and Replacement of Directors The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and that of its The Board membership should not be fewer than five nor more than Committees every year.
In 2016, this evaluation was again externally 15, save that the Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time facilitated by the corporate advisory rm, Lintstock.
The Board to time vary this minimum and or maximum number of Directors.
evaluation was undertaken in two stages, with the first part taking Directors may be appointed by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
place after the Board strategy meeting in June and the second A Director appointed by the Board must retire from of ce at the part conducted after the October Board meeting.
The focus of the first Annual General Meeting AGM after his her appointment.
former was principally on strategy and succession, with the latter A Director who retires in this way is then eligible for reappointment.
covering Board oversight in general, risk management and internal The Board may appoint one or more Directors to any executive control, the prioritisation of strategic objectives and Board ef ciency.
of ce, on such terms and for such period as it thinks t and it can This in-year approach to the Boards performance evaluation, also terminate or vary such an appointment at any time.
The Articles tackling different topics at different stages of the year, has assisted specify that at every AGM, any Director who has been appointed by the process of feedback and continuous improvement.
As with the Vesuvius Board since the last AGM and any Director who held previous years, the October evaluation also covered the overall of ce at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire performance of the Boards Committees, individual reviews of at either of them, shall retire from of ce.
However, in accordance each Director and analysis of the performance of the Chairman.
with the requirements of the Code, all the Directors will offer themselves for re-election at this years AGM.
The biographical The 2016 evaluation showed signi cant progress on most items details of the Directors offering themselves for re-election, including from the 2015 review.
However, in reviewing the 2015 action details of their other directorships and relevant skills and experience, points greater progress had been made in some areas than others.
will be set out in the 2017 Notice of AGM.
The biographical details The Board is considered to operate effectively with an appropriate of the Directors are also set out on pages 22 and 23.
The Board composition and a boardroom environment that continues to believes that each of the current Directors is effective and encourage participation and candid discussion.
Strategy in particular demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role.
Accordingly, continued to be robust, well elucidated and received appropriate the Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to Board and management focus with the revised format for the Board be proposed at the 2017 AGM relating to the re-election of all the Strategy meeting considered to have been bene cial.
Amongst areas Directors then standing.
for ongoing improvement, although noting improvements had been made, it was felt that greater efforts to support development of staff Directors Con icts of Interest members below senior management level could be taken.
It was The Board has established a formal system to authorise situations resolved that this would receive increased Board oversight going where a Director has an interest that con icts, or may possibly forwards.
It was noted that the identi cation and management of con ict, with the interests of the Company Situational Con icts.
risks, including risk appetite had received additional attention from Directors declare Situational Con icts so that they can be considered the Board in 2016, following points raised by the 2015 evaluation.
for authorisation by the non-con icted Directors.
In considering The evaluation concluded that the Board continues to promote open a Situational Con ict these Directors act in the way they consider debate and is well supported in terms of information ow and that would be most likely to promote the success of the Company, the key objectives of strategy delivery and succession planning and may impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation continued to be well served by the Board.
or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
The Company Secretary records the consideration of any con ict and records any authorisations granted.
The Board believes that the system it has in place for reporting Situational Con icts continues to operate effectively.
No Situational Con icts were brought to the Board for authorisation during the year under review.
Vesuvius plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report continued material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is designed to Board Accountability provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that problems Risk Management and Internal Control are identi ed on a timely basis and are dealt with appropriately.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness a system of risk management and internal control, and for reviewing of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, its effectiveness.
This system is designed to manage, rather than operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
eliminate, the risks facing the Group and safeguard its assets.
No The key features of the Groups system of internal control are set system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against out in the table below.
Risk Management and Internal Control Key Features Strategy and Comprehensive strategic planning and forecasting process financial reporting Annual budget approved by the Board Monthly operating financial information reported against budget Key trends and variances analysed and action taken as appropriate Vesuvius GAAP Accounting policies and procedures formulated and disseminated to all Group operations Covers the application of accounting standards, the maintenance of accounting records and key financial control procedures Operational controls Operating companies and corporate of ces maintain internal controls and procedures appropriate to their structure and business environment Compliance with Group policies on items such as authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury transactions, the management of intellectual property and regulatory issues Use of common accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting software used in financial reporting and consolidation Signi cant nancing and investment decisions reserved to the Board Monitoring of policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk by the Board Risk assessment Continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any signi cant risks and management Risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business Reports made to the Board on how those risks are managed Each major Group business unit produces a risk map to identify key risks, assess the likelihood of risks occurring, their impact and mitigating actions Top-down risk identi cation undertaken at Group Executive Committee and Board meetings Board review of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group The Board is noti ed of major issues and makes an annual assessment of how risks have changed Ongoing assurance processes by the legal function and internal audit Governance 69 Reviewing the eff ectiveness of Risk Management Executive Compensation and Risk and Internal Control All of the independent Non-executive Directors serve on both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
They therefore bring their The internal control system covers the Group as a whole, and is experience and knowledge of the activities of each Committee to monitored and supported by the Groups Internal Audit function, bear when considering critical areas of judgement.
This means that, which conducts reviews of Vesuvius businesses and reports for example, the Directors are in a position to consider carefully the objectively both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system impact of incentive arrangements on the Groups risk pro le and of internal control and on those businesses compliance with Group to ensure the Groups Remuneration Policy and programme are policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee receives reports from structured to align with the long-term objectives and risk appetite the Group Head of Internal Audit and reports to the Board on the of the Company.
As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of Share Capital and Voting the system of internal control, it delegates certain matters to the Disclosure of the information regarding share capital, the Audit Committee.
authorisation received by Directors at the AGM regarding the issue Following the Audit Committees review of internal financial controls of shares and the authority to purchase own shares, is contained on and of the processes covering other controls, the Board annually page 100 within the Directors Report.
There are no restrictions on evaluates the results of the internal control and risk management voting contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Further procedures conducted by senior management.
This includes details are set out in the Directors Report on page 101. a self-certi cation exercise by which senior financial, operational Relations with Shareholders and functional management throughout the Group certify the compliance throughout the year of the areas under their The Board is committed to communicating with shareholders responsibility with the Groups policies and procedures.
Since and stakeholders in a clear and open manner, and seeks to the date of this review, there have been no signi cant changes ensure effective engagement through the Companys regular in internal controls or other matters identi ed which could communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
The Company undertakes an ongoing programme of meetings with investors, which is managed by the Chief Executive and Chief In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Directors con rm Financial Of cer.
The majority of meetings with investors are led that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks by them.
In advance of the 2016 AGM, we wrote to our largest facing the Company, including those that threaten its business shareholders inviting discussion on any questions they might like model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
They have also to raise, making the Chairmen of the Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and the Remuneration Committee available to meet shareholders and con rm that the necessary actions have been taken to remedy should they so wish.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director any control weaknesses identi ed during the year.
and Committee Chairmen also remain open for discussion with The Groups principal risks and how they are being managed shareholders throughout the year on matters under their areas of or mitigated are detailed on pages 20 and 21, and the Viability responsibility, either through contacting the Company Secretary or Statement which considers the Groups future prospects is detailed directly at the AGM.
Risk management and internal control is The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice discussed in greater detail in the Audit Committee report on pages a year, with the publication of its annual and half-year financial 73 to 74. reports.
In addition, in order to maintain transparency in The Audit Committee performance, it also issued two scheduled trading updates during 2016.
One was published immediately prior to the 2016 AGM The members of the Audit Committee are set out on page 70. on 12 May 2016, and the second was published on 27 October The Audit Committee report which describes the Audit Committees 2016.
In conjunction with these announcements, presentations work in discharging its responsibilities, is set out on pages 70 to 76. or teleconference calls were held with institutional investors and analysts.
All Directors are expected to attend the Companys AGM, providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them about issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting or informally afterwards.
