Vesuvius plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee financial matters.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee encourages Committee Members open dialogue between the external auditors, the management Douglas Hurt Committee Chairman team and the Head of Internal Audit between Audit Committee Hock Goh meetings to ensure that emerging issues are addressed in a Jane Hinkley timely manner.
Nelda Connors resigned 30 September 2016 During the year, the Committee members also participated outside The Audit Committee formal meetings in the tender process for a new statutory auditor.
In addition, as is the Audit Committees established practice, the The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the Committee members met and discussed business and control independent Non-executive Directors of the Company, who matters with senior management during site visits, informal bring a wide range of financial and commercial expertise to the meetings and Board presentations.
Committees decision-making and evaluation processes.
Douglas Hurt is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit The outcomes of Audit Committee meetings were reported to Committee, having been appointed to these roles following the the Board and all members of the Board received the agenda, 2015 AGM.
He was the Finance Director of IMI plc for nine years papers and minutes of the Committee.
prior to that and has worked in various financial roles throughout Role and Responsibilities his career.
Douglas is also Chairman of the Audit Committee of Tate & Lyle plc, and a Chartered Accountant.
This background The main role and responsibilities of the Committee continue provides him with the recent and relevant financial experience to be to: required under both the 2014 and 2016 versions of the Code.
Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
and the Group, and any formal announcements relating to the The April 2016 version of the Code introduces an additional Groups financial performance requirement for the Audit Committee as a whole to have Review the Groups internal financial controls and review competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
the Groups internal control and risk management systems Vesuvius Non-executive Directors have signi cant breadth of Establish and review procedures for detecting fraud, systems experience and depth of knowledge on matters related to Vesuvius and controls for the prevention of bribery and oversee the operations, both from their previous roles and their induction and Companys arrangements for employees to raise concerns about other activities since joining the Board of Vesuvius.
The Directors possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters biographies on pages 22 and 23 outline a range of multi-national Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys business-to-business experience and expertise in elds including Internal Audit function engineering, manufacturing, services and logistics as well as financial Make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, and commercial acumen.
The Board therefore considers that the reappointment and removal of the external auditor and to Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to Vesuvius approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the business sector.
external auditor Monitor and review the external auditors independence, Meetings objectivity and effectiveness, taking into consideration relevant The Committee met five times during 2016.
The Committee has UK professional and regulatory requirements.
also met twice since the end of the financial year and prior to The Committee operates under formal terms of reference approved the signing of this Annual Report.
The Board Chairman, the by the Board, which were revised during the year.
The updated Audit non-independent Non-executive Director, the Chief Executive, Committee terms of reference, re ect the changes introduced by the the Chief Financial Of cer, the Group Financial Controller, the April 2016 revisions to the Code, and take into account the Guidance Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor were all invited on Audit Committees and Revised Ethical Standard 2016 published to each meeting.
Other management staff were also invited to by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
During the year, the Committee also met privately with KPMG and the Head of Internal Audit, without any The Audit Committees terms of reference are available in the executives present.
Following the announcement in July of the Investors Corporate Governance section of the Companys website, selection of  LLP PwC to succeed KPMG www.
Within these Terms, the Committee and its as the Groups auditor for the year ending 31 December 2017, individual members are empowered to obtain outside legal or PwC has also been in attendance at the meetings.
other independent professional advice at the cost of the Company.
These powers were not utilised during the year.
The Committee Audit Committee meetings are conducted to promote an may also secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee or open debate, to challenge constructively signi cant accounting other parties with relevant experience and expertise should it be judgements, to provide guidance and oversight to management considered necessary.
to ensure the business maintains an appropriately robust control environment and to provide informed advice to the Board on Governance 71 Activities in 2016 Financial Reporting The Committees agenda covered the usual standing items the The Committee ful lled its primary responsibility to review the review of financial results, the effectiveness of the Groups internal integrity of the 2016 half-year and 2016 annual financial statements financial controls, and the review of the internal control and risk and recommended their approval to the Board.
The Committee management systems as well as non-standard items, such as also reviewed the two trading updates released during the year.
the tender for the 2017 external audit and targeted deep dive In forming its views, the Committee assessed: topics.
The Committee considered the impact assessment of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and reviewed the The quality, acceptability and consistency of the accounting implementation plan for this in the 2018 financial year.
As the Group policies and practices responded to the changes in the short to medium-term outlook The clarity and consistency of the disclosures, including for the business, the Audit Committee continued to devote time to compliance with relevant financial reporting standards and ensure that initiatives to mitigate potential risks and financial other reporting requirements exposure remained robust and appropriate.
The Committee S igni cant issues where management judgements and or challenged the adequacy of inventory and receivables provisions, the estimates have been made that are material to the reporting assumed growth rates and discount rates used for asset impairment or where discussions have taken place with the external auditor assessments, as well as the accounting for and presentation of the in arriving at the judgement or estimate Group-wide restructuring programme undertaken in response to In relation to the overall Annual Report, whether the Annual the challenging conditions within our end-markets.
Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, taking into consideration all the information The Committee considered the Companys going concern statement available to the Committee and challenged the nature, quantum and combination of the unlikely The application of the FRCs guidance on clear and but signi cant risks to the business model, future performance, concise reporting solvency and liquidity of the Group that were modelled as part of the scenarios and stress testing undertaken to support the Viability The Committee actively deliberated and challenged reports from Statement made by the Company in the 2015 Accounts.
The 2016 the Chief Financial Of cer and Group Financial Controller.
These Viability Statement, which was also critically reviewed, is contained were well prepared and, for areas of judgement and or estimation, within the Strategic Report and can be found on pages 19 and 20. set out the rationale for the accounting treatment and disclosures, the pertinent assumptions and the sensitivities of the estimates to The Committee monitored the resourcing and delivery of the changes in the assumptions.
KPMG also delivered memoranda for 2016 Internal Audit plan and approved the 2017 Internal Audit plan.
the half-year and year-end, stating their views on the treatment The Committee monitored both the responses from, and follow of these signi cant issues.
KPMG provided a summary for each up by management to, Internal Audit recommendations arising issue, including its assessment of the prudence of managements during the year and, where necessary, the Committee tasked judgements or estimates.
The Committee considered the overall management to verify their successful closure within fide ned degree of prudence applied this year, compared this with the timescales.
The Committee also examined speci c audit issues prior year and concluded that the level of overall prudence through deep dive internal reviews, which included reviews of remained unchanged.
tax matters, cyber security, foreign exchange management and the Groups fide ned bene t pension arrangements.
To facilitate the Audit Committees oversight of the nalisation of the financial statements, an extra Committee meeting was scheduled in The Committee devoted a signi cant amount of time, both in February 2016 for the Committee to review early drafts of the 2015 and outside formal Audit Committee meetings, to its oversight Annual Report and Accounts, and provide constructive challenge, of the tender process to appoint a new statutory auditor for the advice and guidance where necessary.
This process has been financial year ending 31 December 2017.
The tender culminated in formalised as part of the ongoing Audit Committee agenda and the appointment of  LLP as external auditor a similar meeting was held in 2017. and the appointment of Mazars LLP to audit the non-material entities within the Group.
Signi cant Issues and Material Judgements The Committee members believe that they received suf cient, Exceptional Restructuring Charges relevant and reliable information throughout the year from The Group restructuring programme continued in 2016 in response management and the external auditor to enable the Committee to the structural changes in the end-markets that we serve.
The to fully discharge its responsibilities.
Committee has critically reviewed the treatment of the restructuring costs disclosed as separately reported items in 2016 and concluded The work of the Audit Committee is further elaborated in the that these have been treated consistently with the accounting policy.
This ensures that only restructuring charges that are exceptional are reported separately, which enables the reader more clearly to understand the underlying results of the Group.
The Committees expectation is that the current exceptional restructuring programme will be completed in 2017.
Vesuvius plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee continued Working capital provisions The Committee challenged the assumptions used to arrive at the Given the very dif cult trading environment that certain of the 41.9m provided for income tax payable which includes 31.5m Groups customers faced in 2016, the Committee challenged the for uncertain tax provisions as set out in Note 10.
After discussions adequacy of provisions held against both receivables and inventories with internal tax experts and considering the results of recent tax Notes 18 and 19 and after reviewing the ageing analyses, audits and the views of the external auditors, the Committee concluded that the provisions were appropriate.
Provisions At the end of 2015, the Group recognised a US deferred tax asset The Committee has been made aware of a number of potential of 57.1m.
The Group has signi cant additional tax losses and other exposures and claims arising from ongoing litigation, product quality temporary differences in the US and elsewhere which have not issues, employee disputes, restructuring, environmental matters, been recognised, which are kept under review.
The recognition of onerous leases, indirect tax disputes and indemnities or warranties deferred tax assets for tax losses and other temporary differences outstanding for disposed businesses.
Due to the long gestation is a highly technical area and the Committee has drawn on internal period before settlement can be reached, provisioning for these experts to understand the treatment.
The future prospects for US items requires careful judgement in order to establish a reasonable pro tability were carefully modelled by management and challenged estimate of future liabilities.
The Committee also assessed the by the Committee.
Whilst recognising that dif cult trading strength of any insurance coverage for certain of these liabilities conditions look set to continue, the Committee concurred with and challenged the accounting treatment for any amounts deemed management that the US forecast pro ts are considered suf cient to to be recoverable from insurers.
After due consideration and sustain a deferred tax asset in the US at the end of 2016 of 65.9m.
challenge, with expert advice sought in certain areas, the Committee Pensions is satis ed that there are appropriate levels of provisions set aside to Pension accounting is a complex area.
The appropriateness of settle third-party claims and disputes Note 32 and that adequate assumptions used described in Note 28 were questioned by disclosure has been made under International Accounting Standards the Committee, as small changes in the assumptions could have IAS 1 paragraph 129 in respect of estimation uncertainties that material effects and bond yields in particular have been volatile.
might impact the accounts in the following financial year.
Where The assumptions made by management for each of the major the outcome of an existing issue is uncertain, or where no reliable schemes were compared by KPMG with other similar schemes.
estimate of the potential liability can be made, no provision has been The Committee agreed the reasonableness of the assumptions.
made and appropriate disclosure is included under contingent It was noted that a number of actions took place during 2016 as part liabilities Note 34. of the fide-risking strategies in place for the fide ned bene t pension Impairment of intangible assets funds and that these actions gave rise to pension fund settlements The year-end carrying value of goodwill of 662.2m was tested and curtailments that had an income statement impact.
As a result against the current and planned performance of the Steel and of their materiality, the Committee concurred with management Foundry cash-generating units CGUs.
The Committee challenged that these be reported separately.
both the determination of the relevant CGUs, the planned and In summary, the Committee resolved that judgements and estimates terminal growth assumptions as well as the discount rates used in made on each of the signi cant issues the Committee considered the assessments and the relevant sensitivities that were evaluated.
The detailed assumptions, provided in Note 17, re ect both a reduction in global risk-free rates and the impact of the increasing Fair, Balanced and Understandable Reporting contribution from the Groups operations in emerging markets.
The Committee considered all the information available to it in The Committee considered the Board-approved medium-term reviewing the overall content of the Annual Report and Accounts business plans, the range of industry longer-term projections and and the process by which it was compiled and reviewed, to enable expert views on discount rates and, given that the models indicated it to provide advice to the Board that the Annual Report is fair, that there remains signi cant headroom between the value in use balanced and understandable.
In doing so, the Committee ensured and the carrying value, the Committee concurred that no goodwill that time was again dedicated to the drafting process so that internal impairment charges were required.
linkages were identi ed and consistency was tested.
Drafts of the Income tax Annual Report and Accounts were also reviewed by a senior Income tax remains a complex area where signi cant judgements executive not directly involved in the year-end process who reported are required to estimate both uncertain tax liabilities and the value to the Committee on his impressions of clarity, comprehensiveness, of deferred tax assets.
balance and disclosure in the document.
On completion of the process, the Committee was satis ed that it could recommend to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
Governance 73 Internal Controls Internal Audit The Committee considered the process by which management The Groups Internal Audit function operates on a global basis evaluates internal controls across the Group.
The Head of Internal through professionally quali ed and experienced individual members Audit provided the Committee with a summary overview of the located around the world.
They report to the Head of Internal Audit, assurance provided by internal controls and the testing of these based in London, who in turn reports directly to the Chairman of controls.
KPMG also reviewed controls in the businesses within the Audit Committee.
During 2016, the skill set of the Internal Audit the scope of its audit, which review indicated a positive control team was further strengthened by the recruitment of an auditor environment, showing a further improvement on the prior year.
The Group is made up of several large operating units, but also The Committee received, considered and approved the 2016 Internal many small units in geographically diverse locations.
Consequently, Audit plan which was constructed using a risk-based approach to segregation of duties, overlapping access controls on systems and cover the Groups control environment.
The plan was based on the remote management oversight can give rise to control vulnerabilities premise that all operating units are internally audited at least once and fraud opportunities.
The Group has not adopted a common ERP in every three-year period, whilst maintaining a focus on smaller system as a Group-wide standard.
Over time, management intends operating units.
A third of operating units are now subject to internal to move to more sharing of services, enabled by process and systems audit twice in every three-year period, and Internal Audit annually standardisation between businesses.
This is likely to improve the audits each of the large operating entities located in Germany, the overall internal controls in the smaller operating units.
US, China, Mexico and Brazil.
During the year the Committee also considered and approved changes to the Internal Audit plan as In 2016 the Group undertook a number of compliance projects required.
The internal audit coverage is greater than in previous years which included an analysis of the Groups use of third-party and audits are carried out with more in-depth analysis across legal representatives and intermediaries, with an initial focus on entities and operating units.
In addition, in 2016 many project-based perceived higher risk jurisdictions.
The Committee continued with reviews were undertaken.
its assessment of the Groups potential exposure to bribery and corruption risks, conducting face-to-face visits to operations and In 2016, a total of 61 audit assignments, including seven unplanned reviewing financial records with the assistance of external advisers.
audits, were undertaken by Internal Audit, covering 89% of the The output of this and previous risk assessments will continue to be Groups revenue and 80% of the Groups pro t before tax.
The used to keep current the Groups policies and procedures for the Committee received a dashboard from the Head of Internal Audit management of anti-bribery and corruption risk, and forms part of at each of its meetings, detailing progress against the agreed plan the Groups ongoing assessment of compliance risks.
and identifying key trends and findings from internal audit reports, along with progress on the resolution of actions agreed.
Common The Committee also continued to monitor and oversee the themes emerging from internal audit reports were discussed and procedures for the receipt and treatment of allegations of improper these discussions have informed the compilation of the 2017 Internal behaviour and complaints by employees.
The Groups Speak Up Audit plan.
In 2016 the full audit plan was completed, with PwC policy was relaunched in 2016, reinforcing the worldwide availability and Grant Thornton retained as external outsourced auditors to of an independent and con dential reporting service where supplement the Internal Audit team.
The outsourcing process employees may register their concerns about potentially irregular provides valuable learning opportunities and we expect to continue or unethical practices they experience in the workplace.
Each year to use outsourcing in specialist areas or geographies in the future.
the senior financial, operational and functional management of the businesses self-certify compliance with Group policies and Where control issues or other problems are agged by the eldwork, procedures for the areas of the business under their responsibility, they are recorded in a live web-based database into which which provides another safeguard.
In 2016, the process of selfmanagement and operational entities are required to report progress certi cation was further re ned to include con rmation of the against audit exceptions.
In this way, Internal Audit can monitor existence of adequate internal control systems throughout the the progress and adequacy of the remediation steps taken.
year and the Committee reviews any exceptions noted in this Consequently, the Committee can be assured that appropriate bottom-up exercise.
and timely actions were taken by the responsible management.
The Audit Committee also involved senior management as necessary After considering these various inputs, the Committee was able to provide an update against high-priority actions and Internal Audit to provide assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of internal provided follow-up reviews as required to ensure there was clarity financial control within the Group, and on the adequacy of the on the responsibility for delivery of solutions to the audit findings.
Groups broader internal control systems.
In situations where audit findings required longer-term solutions, the Committee oversaw the process for ensuring that interim measures were established to mitigate risks while permanent solutions are pursued.
Vesuvius plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee continued During the year, the Committee arranged for a questionnaire-based As part of its review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
the Committee supported the Board in a coordinated, clean-sheet The review, which canvassed the views of Non-executive Directors, approach to the review of risks in 2016.
Alongside the usual the external auditor, senior management and members of the bottom-up risk mapping of the risk registers constructed and Internal Audit team, con rmed that the Internal Audit function reviewed in each major business, the Head of Internal Audit had a good understanding of the business and operated within coordinated the collation of the key operational risks identi ed by the correct scope.
The review identi ed the opportunity for some all members of the Committee and the Board, a process which was improvements in reporting and in interaction with management on also undertaken by the Group Executive Committee.
The input of audit findings, as well as a more regular dialogue with the external Directors added individual views of top-down strategic risks into auditor on the Group control and risk management framework.
the process, drawing on the broader economic, environmental and Overall internal audit was considered to have a strong reputation organisational issues facing the Group.
In monitoring the overall within the Group which is being further enhanced by its ongoing process, Committee members also fully participated in the Board development programme.
review of risks and mitigating actions.
The Committee determined that this approach once again enhanced the Groups process for Risk Management identifying principal risks and uncertainties, which is set out on pages 20 and 21, and that this was robust and appropriate.
As highlighted in the reviews of strategy and principal risks in the Strategic Report, risk management is inherent in managements External Audit thinking and is embedded in the business planning processes of the Group.
The Board is responsible for identifying and monitoring The Committee and the Board are committed to maintaining the the principal risks facing the business and with the Group Executive high quality of the external audit process.
A questionnaire-based Committee ensures implementation of appropriate mitigating approach was used to assess the effectiveness of the 2015 external actions.
The Audit Committee has continued its monitoring role.
It also considered the quality of issues and challenges This framework for identifying and dealing with the principal risks raised by KPMG to the Committee and to management across the is consistent with the Code.
Group, and the responsiveness of management to these challenges in generating financial reporting that is of the high standard Governance in Action Deep Dive into Cyber Risk expected by our shareholders.
The improvement opportunities that were identi ed included more effective communication in 1.
As part of its ongoing monitoring of risk, the Audit Committee commissioned a review of peer company risks, and identi ed cyber risk as certain overseas territories and an ef ciency gain from the audit a topic for a deep dive into the potential cyber threats posed to the Group.
of an overseas shared service unit.
Vesuvius Chief Information Of cer sponsored a review of the Groups for the 2016 audit and a review of the effectiveness of the 2016 cyber risks and presented his findings to the Committee, using the 2016 external audit was undertaken and concluded that the audit process Government Cyber Health Check as the launching point from which to was effective.
The Committee also considered the Financial undertake this review.
Reporting Councils Audit Quality Inspection of KPMG published 3.
Areas of risk sensitivity were identi ed.
These were discussed in conjunction in May 2016 and discussed their findings with KPMG.
with the detailed steps taken to mitigate such risks and maintain a robust security environment.
Speci c hardware and software risks were noted, Within the external audit process, communications between the as well as an assessment made of the steps taken by the Group to limit Committee and KPMG were extensive.
KPMG provided updates third-party access to proprietary systems.
to the Committee at the half-year and running up to the year-end, 4.
The Committee used the deep dive to assess the wider risks associated with including regular commentaries on signi cant issues and their cyber crime, such as deception and extortion through social engineering assessment of prudence in the judgements and estimates made and the threats of ransomware.
The Committee also considered the by management.
In February 2017 the Audit Committee also held a Companys existing internal education programmes to counter such threats.
preliminary meeting on year-end issues in advance of the nalisation 5.
The Chief Information Of cer presented initiatives for further development of the financial statements in early March.
Private sessions were held and the Committee commended these to management.
with KPMG without management being present, covering reporting 6.
An internal multi-disciplinary Committee has been constituted to advance and control issues in the context of the resourcing of the Group the further assessment and management of cyber risk to ensure that this Finance team.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee met on a remains on the agenda of management and the Board.
number of occasions with KPMG to monitor the progress of the audit and discuss questions as they arose.
The strength of the finance teams across the Group was also considered.
In these sessions KPMG con rmed that its work had not been constrained in any way and that it was able to exercise appropriate professional scepticism and challenge throughout the audit process.
Governance 75 The independent auditors report provided by KPMG on pages of the external auditor, the policy also addresses the employment of 106 to 108 includes KPMGs assessment of the risks of material former members of the external audit team, imposing strict controls.
These risk areas are discussed in the Under the policy in force for the 2016 financial year see details of signi cant issues and material judgements comments above.
The the update conducted below, an annual budget for non-audit report also summarises the scope, coverage and materiality levels services where management proposed to engage the external applied by KPMG in its audit.
As part of the audit planning process auditor was presented for approval by the Committee as part of and based on a detailed risk assessment, the Committee agreed a the overall budgeting process.
Where a speci c non-audit fee was materiality gure of 4.0m for Group financial reporting purposes likely to be in excess of 50,000, it had to be pre-approved by the which is lower than last year 4.6m and, in line with similar groups, Committee and, where appropriate, services were tendered is set at about 4% of pro t before tax, 102.7m after adjusting for competitively prior to the awarding of work.
In practice, the Group restructuring costs and gains on employee bene t plans.
did not seek to engage KPMG for non-audit services unless there Importantly, much lower levels of materiality are used in the audit were compelling advantages to doing so.
eldwork on the individual businesses across the Group and these The EU framework for a more restrictive regime for non-audit lower gures drive the scope and depth of audit work.
Small services came into force in June 2016.
The restrictions broadly operations were subject to statutory audit as required under local prohibit external auditors involvement in tax services, any services regulations, and, subject to risk assessment, were also reviewed by that involve playing a part in management decision making, Internal Audit.
Any misstatements at or above 0.2m were reported preparing accounting records, designing or implementing internal to the Committee.
control risk management services or financial systems, certain HR There were no signi cant changes this year to the coverage of services and other legal, investment and share-dealing services.
the audit which stood at 69% of the Groups revenue, 78% There are also rolling three-year caps of 70% on the fees that each of pro ts and losses that made up pro t before tax and 82% auditing entity and auditing network can receive for all non-audit of assets.
This coverage was considered to be suf cient by the services relative to the audit fee.
In line with these changes, Vesuvius Committee.
The audit coverage is re ective of the long tail of smaller revised its non-audit services policy during 2016, which was businesses within the Group that individually are not material to approved at the Audit Committee meeting held in December 2016. the Group result.
This new policy states that Group companies are not permitted to use the external auditor for any prohibited non-audit services The KPMG audit fee was constructed bottom-up on a local currency as speci ed by the UK Financial Reporting Councils Revised Ethical basis and was assessed in light of the audit work required by the Standard 2016, unless subject to a permitted derogation.
In addition, agreed materiality level and scope.
The Audit Committee approved all audit related and permissible non-audit services proposed to be a fee of 2.0m, which is the same as 2015. carried out for any Group Company worldwide by the external auditor must be pre-approved by the Chief Financial Of cer, who External Auditor Independence thereafter will refer matters to be further approved by the Chairman The safeguards to protect the independence and objectivity of the of the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee before an auditor that continued during the year include: engagement is agreed.
Any assignment proposed to be carried out by the external auditor must also have cleared the external auditors R egular con rmation that the external auditor is independent own internal pre-approval process to con rm the rms ethical of the Company in its own professional judgement ability to do the work.
The revised non-audit services policy applies Evaluating all the relationships between the external auditor and from 1 January 2017 to the audit of the financial year ending the Group, including those relating to the provision of non-audit 31 December 2017, and for financial years thereafter.
The policy is services to determine whether these impair, or appear to impair, available on the Investors Corporate Governance section of the the auditors independence Companys website, www.
The external auditor is prohibited from performing services where it: During 2016, the fees for non-audit services amounted to 0.1m, May be required to audit its own work similar to last year.
The fees comprised assurance services related Would participate in activities that would normally to the review of the Companys half-year financial statements and be undertaken by management limited taxation advice, as detailed in Note 6 on page 120, for which Is remunerated through a success fee structure it was concluded that KPMG was best placed to support the Group.
Acts in an advocacy role for the Group In light of the external audit tender, the Committee also monitored fees paid to other large accounting rms as part of the non-audit Vesuvius operates a policy for the approval of non-audit services.
services fees review so as to determine where there might be any This policy details the pre-approval process for, and monitoring of, current or future con icts of interest.
In this context PwC withdrew approved non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
It also from its role as outsourced internal audit support and from certain details the list of services which the external auditor is speci cally tax-related work.
In keeping with ensuring the independence Vesuvius plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee considered the Selection Committees Appointment of New External Auditor recommendation to appoint a lead audit rm to audit the Group In accordance with the con rmation given in last years Annual accounts and a second audit rm to audit the non-material Group Report and Accounts, the Audit Committee oversaw a tender companies.
The Audit Committee agreed that this bifurcated audit process during 2016 to appoint a new statutory auditor for the approach offered an opportunity to improve the overall quality of financial year ending 31 December 2017. the external audit, enabling increased focus on the non-material Group company risks by a second rm, whilst delivering signi cant A Selection Committee comprising members of the Audit savings in the overall audit process.
Committee and finance management, was appointed to conduct the tender process, further details of which can be found in the It noted that this approach would require well coordinated Governance in Action box below.
communication between the audit rms and management as well as careful planning of the audit strategy, to be led by the lead audit Governance in Action External Auditor Tender Process rm.
The Audit Committee considered that the effectiveness of the 1.
In response to changes in legislation, and having considered the length arrangement should be reviewed after three audit cycles.
On this of tenure of the incumbent auditor, the Board had advised shareholders basis, the Audit Committee submitted its recommendation to the of its intention to undertake an audit tender in the 2015 Annual Report Board for consideration.
The Audit Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the rotation of the external audit rm for the financial year ending In July 2016 the Board approved the appointment of 31 December 2017.
 LLP as external auditor for Vesuvius plc 2.
In conjunction with management, the Audit Committee agreed a suitable for the year ending 31 December 2017.
Shareholder approval to audit tender process.
This process commenced with a detailed examination con rm the appointment of  LLP will be of the criteria upon which potential audit rms would be selected.
These sought at the Vesuvius plc Annual General Meeting in 2017.
Mazars criteria included reputation, quality, independence, probity, global reach, capability to serve the needs of the business and cost effectiveness.
It was LLP was approved as the second audit rm, with a focus on the agreed that consideration would also be given to adopting a bifurcated smaller Vesuvius subsidiaries.
The Audit Committee and Board approach to the audit, whereby separate audit rms would be engaged to believe this selection of audit rms is appropriate and that the audit different parts of the business.
It was thought that this could deliver bifurcated audit approach will deliver equivalent assurance to a advantages in respect of leverage of specialist knowledge and cost effectiveness.
The Committee is receiving regular reports on the status and progress of the auditor transition plans.
A Selection Committee, comprising members of the Audit Committee and selected senior management, was nominated to oversee the process.
The Selection Committee reviewed a detailed Request For Proposal, and approved its issuance to potential bidders.
It also approved the The Audit Committees performance was evaluated as part of the contents of a data room aimed to provide an overview of the Companys overall externally facilitated Board and Committee performance financial affairs to interested parties.
Both Big 4 and other accounting evaluation, which is described in depth on pages 66 and 67.
At the rms were asked to participate in the tender.
beginning of the financial year half of the Audit Committee and 5.
By the end of May 2016, the Selection Committee had shortlisted and the Chief Financial Of cer had only been in post for a matter of received proposals from five audit rms.
These were invited to tender months and the focus of the Committee was to rapidly gain in-depth and, in June 2016, make presentations to the Selection Committee.
knowledge of the audit and risk environment.
The Selection Committee evaluated the suitability of each bidder, combined efforts of the Audit Committee, external auditor and considering the candidates strengths and weaknesses, their match management staff this was swiftly achieved and has led to an against the Companys criteria, as well as their t with the Company, management and the Board.
effective Audit Committee that is commercially astute, ready to challenge the business, add rigour to signi cant accounting 7.
On completion of further interviews, a recommendation was made to the Audit Committee by the Selection Committee to appoint one rm judgements and promote a strong control environment.
This was to audit the Group accounts and a second rm to audit the non-material re ected in the performance review of the Audit Committee, subsidiaries for 2017 onwards.
This recommendation provided supporting which overall rated its work highly against all measurement criteria.
evidence, ranking all five competing audit rms against consistent criteria, as well as identifying the lead candidates.
The 2015 evaluation identi ed opportunities to strengthen the 8.
In July 2016, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board the framework of the risk management programme and through, appointment of two external auditors, with  LLP greater use by the Committee of deep dives, to explore some areas to be selected and appointed as the lead audit rm for the audit of the in more detail.
During 2016 the Committee delivered against these Group, and Mazars LLP to be appointed to support this with the audit of initiatives, as detailed in the paragraphs above.
Areas of focus non-material Group companies.
It was noted that this bifurcated approach identi ed by the 2016 evaluation of the Audit Committee for 2017 to the audit is intended to deliver coverage and cost ef ciencies for the audit of the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017, include managing the smooth transition of the external auditor, and greater risk management focus on the non-material Group companies.
continuing to improve communications with management outside 9.
At the 2017 AGM the Board will request that the shareholders of the meetings and continuing the deep dive initiative that proved so Company approve a resolution to appoint  LLP useful in 2016.
The Committee will continue to seek improvements as the Companys external auditor.
in its performance and report against its delivery of the actions identi ed by the review in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
On behalf of the Audit Committee Douglas Hurt Chairman, Audit Committee 2 March 2017
