Governance 77 Nomination Committee The primary focus of the Nomination Committees activities during Process for Board Appointments 2016 was on Board succession planning.
The Committee also The Committee follows formal, rigorous and transparent procedures reviewed the succession and development plans for members of for the appointment of new Directors.
When considering a Board the Executive Committee and, following the resignation of Nelda appointment, the Nomination Committee draws up a speci cation Connors on 30September, commenced the recruitment of a new for the role, taking into consideration the balance of skills, Non-executive Director.
The Committee continues to meet its knowledge and experience of its existing members, the diversity responsibility to ensure that the Board is made up of individuals of the Board, the independence of continuing Board members, with the appropriate drive, abilities and experience to lead the and the ongoing requirements and anticipated strategic Company in the delivery of its strategy.
The search process is then able to Committee Members focus on appointing a candidate with the necessary attributes to enhance the Boards performance.
John McDonough CBE Committee Chairman The Committee uses the services of search rms to identify Christer Gardell appropriate candidates, ensuring that any selected rm is not in any Hock Goh way con icted in the delivery of its role.
In addition, the Committee Jane Hinkley will only use those rms that have adopted the Voluntary Code of Douglas Hurt Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search Nelda Connors resigned 30 September 2016 assignments.
A long list of potential appointees is reviewed, The Nomination Committee followed by the shortlisting of candidates for interview based upon the objective criteria identi ed at inception.
Non-executive The Nomination Committee is made up of myself as Chairman appointees must be able to demonstrate that they have suf cient of the Company and any three of the Non-executive Directors.
time available to devote to the role and all prospective Directors During the year I continued as Chairman of the Committee, though must identify whether they have any potential con icts of interest I would not act as Chairman if the Committee was considering the as part of the process.
The Committee recommends a preferred appointment of my successor.
In that case, the Chairman would candidate, who will then meet other Board members.
Finally, be an appropriate Non-executive Director.
The Company Secretary detailed external references are taken and following this the is Secretary to the Committee.
Members biographies are set out Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board on on pages 22 and 23. the appointment.
Preferred candidates are supported in undertaking Role and Responsibilities their own due diligence on the Company and meeting with its advisers.
The Nomination Committees foremost priorities are to ensure that the Company has the best possible leadership, maintains a clear Activity in 2016 plan for orderly Executive and Non-executive Director succession The Nomination Committee met four times during 2016. and cultivates the appropriate skills, experience and diversity in the The Committee focused its time on the succession process for Boards overall composition.
Its primary focus is therefore on the executive members of the Board as well as reviewing the members strength of the Board, for which appointments are made on merit, of senior management at the levels immediately below the Board.
against objective criteria, selecting the best candidate for the post.
This included a detailed external assessment of Group Executive The Nomination Committee advises the Board on appointments, Committee members and a review of their personal development retirements and resignations from the Board and its Committees.
Following the departure of Nelda Connors as a Non-executive The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which Director in September, the Committee undertook a review of the were reviewed and con rmed during the year.
The terms of current and future needs of the Board and its Committees in reference are available on the Groups website www.
particular re ecting on the balance of skills and experience of current Directors, and comparing this against a list of key skills generated The Committee and its members are empowered to obtain outside in 2015.
The Committee concluded that the Board would bene t legal or other independent professional advice at the cost of the from the appointment of a new Non-executive Director with Company in relation to its deliberations.
These rights were not expert knowledge of the industrial sector, together with a high exercised during the year.
The Committee may also secure the degree of commercial acumen and global markets knowledge, attendance at its meetings of any employee or other parties it and commenced a search on that basis.
Spencer Stuart, a specialist considers necessary.
recruitment agency which was appointed to conduct this search for suitable candidates does not have any other connection with the Company.
I am pleased to report that encouraging progress is being made.
Vesuvius plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We have continued to monitor the development and integration Committee Evaluation onto the Board of the three new Directors who joined during 2015, The Committees activities were part of the externally facilitated Douglas Hurt, Hock Goh and particularly Guy Young who was evaluation of Board effectiveness during the year.
The results appointed Chief Financial Of cer in November 2015.
They all showed that the Committee continued to perform effectively undertook a full induction programme and have continued to gain against all the evaluation criteria, with an appropriate composition, insight into the business and meet executives throughout the a comprehensive agenda and the correct focus.
Franois Wanecq and Guy Young have worked closely the Committee will also concentrate on the identi cation and together to establish a highly effective working relationship, and development of a diverse talent pool of individuals below the together they drive the executive management of the business.
This is of key importance to ensure Board Composition that the Group maintains a stream of talented individuals to lead the business to future success.
As part of the annual corporate governance review conducted On behalf of the Nomination Committee during the year, the Committee examined the independence of the Board and the lengths of tenure of each of the independent John McDonough CBE Chairman, Nomination Committee Non-executive Directors.
All Directors have served at a very senior 2 March 2017 level in global organisations, have international experience across a variety of industries, and most have spent a considerable amount of time resident outside the UK.
The Nomination Committee believes that diversity underpins the successful operation of the Board.
It recognises that this is a key ingredient in creating a balanced culture for discussions and minimising group-think, and continues with its policy to review the requirements for different skills, experience, background and gender in respect of the Boards composition.
The Board supports the recommendations of Lord Davies on gender diversity and notes the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Review.
The Board has also re ected on the Parker Review on ethnic diversity.
The Committee will continue to consider the mix of skills, experience and knowledge required on the Board, and promote diversity not only on the Board but also throughout the wider business.
Senior Management Succession During the year, the Committees succession planning activity did not exclusively relate to the Board, but also encompassed the senior management levels immediately below the Board, aiming to support and encourage the growth of a consistent pool of talent able to step up to the top roles in future years.
The Committee continued to monitor the execution of development plans for the Group Executive Committee, and supported the Board in its remit to understand the process for the development of high potentials throughout the business.
The Board met key executives throughout the Group in order to gain a greater understanding of the breadth and depth of management talent.
This process included a series of presentations to the Board by business unit, functional and geographical heads to ensure that the Board was exposed to the appropriate breadth of senior management.
This process provides the basis for the Boards ability to adopt a more informed approach to executive succession planning and talent development across the Group.
The focus on succession planning at executive and senior management levels remains ongoing.
