Corporate governance Corporate governance The Board of Directors the Board recognises the importance of sound governance and its role in achieving sustainable growth.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and it supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Victrex continues to maintain and review its systems, processes and policies to support its sustainability and governance practices.
The Financial Reporting Council published a revised code in April 2016 the2016 Code, which takes effect for companies with accounting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016.
We have taken into consideration the areas ofchange arising from the 2016 Code, which also reflect the implementation of theEuropean Unions Audit Regulation and Directive.
In preparing this report and reflecting our emphasis on continuous improvement, we have considered how wecomply with the new elements embodied within the 2016 Code.
Introduction from the Chairman To our shareholders and stakeholders The Board is accountable to our shareholders and stakeholders We provide more information on our approach to the for theGroups activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of identification and management of risks on pages 20 to 24. corporate governance.
The Board is committed to good governance.
Our people are an important part of the success of Victrex, We believe good governance establishes the foundation for how whether that be in developing new technologies, products and we should operate, providing important principles which the Board solutions, or working with our customers and suppliers to ensure actively promotes in the adherence to appropriate policies and the delivery of high performance Victrex products, day in day out.
procedures and sound business practices, informing how we work The Board recognises that for Victrex to remain a world leader, together as a company and in our engagement with customers, we need to adapt and change.
Part of that involves equipping our suppliers and wider stakeholders.
This in turn is an enabler to people with the skills and knowledge that allows them to develop achieving our strategy and growth aims for the long-term success as individuals and contribute to the Groupin fulfilling its strategy of the Company.
The responsibilities of the Board include setting and within sound and safe workingpractices.
In several of its the Groups strategic aims, providing the leadership to deliver meetings this year, the Boardconsidered the development of our them, holding management to account in the conduct of the people, including opportunities for advancement, the provision business and reporting to our shareholders.
oftraining, and theimplementation of programmes intended Our Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 40 to 64, tosupport our people in personal development.
including the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 64.
We remain cognisant of the strong relationship between ethics This section of the Annual Report sets out how we manage the and governance and the role the Board plays in demonstrating Group and comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate ethical leadership.
We continue to embed our Victrex Global Governance Code the Code.
It also outlines any governance Code of Conduct across all areas of the business and all initiatives undertaken in the year.
Further information on ethics and social responsibility As I reported last year, three new Directors joined the Board is contained in our Sustainability report on pages 25 to 36. during 2015.
Two are non-executive Directors, Andrew Dougal We operate a clear line of distinction between management, and JaneToogood, and one is an executive Director, Martin which is led by David Hummel, Chief Executive, who is responsible Court, together representing one third of our Board.
Reflecting for the day to day running of the business, and the Board, acting on our recently completed internal performance evaluation, it is under my leadership, which provides constructive challenge to pleasing to note how the Board has worked effectively together management ensuring an open culture of debate that contributes in the past twelve months.
The balance of skills, experience and to creating and preserving value for our shareholders.
industry sectors from which our various Directors are drawn are complementary and contribute to the business of the Board and Finally, our Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate its Committees.
Governance Code is set out to the right.
Arising from last years externally supported board evaluation, wechose areas for specific focus which included how the Groupevaluates and reports on risk and how we support the development of our people.
This is consistent with our philosophy Larry Pentz of continuous improvement which is encouraged throughout the Chairman organisation.
We have refined the approach to the assessment, 6 December 2016 ranking and reporting of risk, facilitating the evaluation of the Groups overall risk management framework.
The changes which have been introduced have served to further enhance visibility atBoard level on the fundamental factors used in determining ranking, the mitigation of risks and in allowing the Board tochallenge and offer guidance to management.
For more information visit www.
com 40 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance Corporate governance framework Victrex plc Board Disclosure Audit Nominations Chief Executives Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee ELT Committee Industrial Medical Internal Audit External Audit Business Unit Business Unit In discharging its responsibilities, the Board also seeks to set, Statement of compliance promote and demonstrate adherence to our values and ethical A detailed review has been performed ofthe Companys compliance standards for the Company.
It remains mindful of the need to with the Codepublished by the Financial Reporting Council FRC observe the duties owed by Directors in law, including promoting in September 2014 and which was effective for year ends beginning the sustainable success of the Company, not only for our on or after1 October 2014.
As mentioned in the introduction, in shareholders, but also for our stakeholders, which includes our our most recent review, the Board also reflected upon the updated employees, suppliers, customers and the wider community.
code which the FRC published in April 2016 and which applies to companies with financial years starting on or after 17June 2016, The offices of the Chairman and the ChiefExecutive Officer CEO within which the more material changes concerned the impact of are separate and clearly distinct.
The division of their responsibilities the EUs Audit Regulation and Directive.
As part of the review, we is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The role have amended the terms of reference of the Audit Committee and and responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director SID are given full consideration to the impact of changes to section C. 3 of also set out inwriting and approved by the Board.
We have been mindful to consider how we comply not responsible for the day to day running of the Group, carrying out just with the principles of the Code but also the spirit of the Code the agreed strategy and implementing specific Boarddecisions.
and our report below reflects this assessment.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and This report, including the Directors Remuneration Report on pages ensuring itseffectiveness in all aspects of its role.
TheChairman 51 to 64, describes how the main principles of good governance isalso responsible for creatingtheright board dynamic and have been applied throughout our business.
forpromoting a culture of openness and debate, in addition to ensuring constructive and productive relations between executive Except as referred to below, the Company has complied with and non-executive Directors.
The Chairman is also an ambassador allrelevant provisions ofthe Code throughout the year ended for the Company to shareholders and wider stakeholders.
30September 2016 and from that date upto the date of publication of this AnnualReport.
The executive Directors are responsible forthe running of the business.
The non-executive Directors are responsible forexercising independent The Company has not complied in full withpart of provision C. 3.7, and objective judgement in respect of Board decisions, developing which states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit corporate strategy with senior management and scrutinising and contract out to tender at leastevery ten years.
As noted on page constructively challenging the actions ofsenior management.
49, KPMG has been our auditor since the management buy out in 1993.
Consistent with good governance principles, we review Our Senior Independent Director, Pamela Kirby, acts as a sounding independence and objectivity annually as part of our annual review board to the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
As explained in Directors when necessary.
She is also available to meet with more detail on pages 49 to 50, the Company will put our external shareholders should they have any concerns, where contact through audit contract out to tender during 2017 and seek shareholder the normal channels maybeinappropriate.
She isalso responsible for approval for the proposed new audit firm atthe 2018 AGM.
leading the review ofthe Chairmans performance, as part ofthe annual Board evaluation.
Leadership The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman on The role of the Board governance matters and is responsible for keeping the Board up to The role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and date on all legislative, regulatory and governance matters.
He is also the Directors are collectively responsible for the long-term success of responsible for supporting the Chairman and other Board members the Company.
The Board also actsas custodian of the Companys as necessary, including the management of Board and Committee values and of its long-term vision and provides strategic direction meetings and their evaluation, advising on Directors duties and guidance for the Company.
The names, biographical details and andfacilitating appropriate, high quality andtimely information significant time commitments of the members of the Board are set flows between thebusiness and the Board.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 41 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued implementation of the Groups strategy.
Board members then Leadership continued participated in visits tokey customers and partners, feedback Operation of the Board onwhich was given at the subsequent meeting of the Board.
The Board is responsible for the Groupsstrategic development, monitoring achievement of its business objectives and maintaining Matters reserved for the Board anddelegation of authority asystem of effective corporate governance, which includes the There are certain matters that are deemed significant enough to be responsibility for health, safety, environmental, social andethical reserved for Board decision only.
A documented schedule of matters matters.
It also monitors the Companys risk management and reserved for the Boards decision is reviewed annually by the Board internal control systems and carries out a review of their effectiveness, to ensure it continues to be appropriate for the activities of the and has reported on this in the report on pages 45 and 46.
These matters include: The Board discharges these responsibilities through scheduled setting the Groups strategy and approval of the Companys u meetings, which include regular reviews of financial performance long-term objectives: andbusiness issues and benchmarking performance against our approval of half-yearly reports, any preliminary announcements u strategic plan andobjectives.
of the final results and other announcements concerned with the The Boards agenda is determined against apre-planned financial performance of the Group: programme of business to ensure that, in addition to the day to day changes to the Companys capital structure: u matters requiring its consideration, all necessary matters are covered and to allow sufficient time for debate and challenge, particularly on approval of the dividend policy: u areas such as strategy.
That programme of business is subject to major contracts and capital expenditure: u periodic review and assessment of its sufficiency to enable the Board to set strategic aims, engage with management in order to approval of risk management policy and framework: u provide an informed assessment of performance against appropriate major investments and acquisitions: and u objectives and understand the evolution of the business.
treasury and cash management policy.
u During 2016, as part of its programme, theBoard visited the Groups office in Germany.
The visit included meeting with allstaff The Board delegates day to day and business management control and attending presentations from management which enabled to the executive Directors, who in turn delegate as appropriate to particular focus on the regional considerations associated with senior management.
Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at the Board and Committee meetings convened in the year to 30 September 2016: Attended Not attended Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings Chairman L C Pentz Executive Directors D R Hummel n a n a n a L S Burdett n a n a n a T J Cooper n a n a n a M L Court n a n a n a Non-executive Directors P J M fide Smedt P J Kirby A J H Dougal J E Toogood Although not a member of the Committees, when appropriate to the business under consideration Larry Pentz, David Hummel, LouisaBurdett, Tim Cooper and Martin Court may be invited to attend meetings of the Committees.
42 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance Board Committees Disclosure Committee The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Chairman Larry Pentz, DavidHummel or Louisa Burdett Committees namely: the Nominations Committee: The Disclosure Committees responsibilities are to ensure that u the Companys obligations to make timely and accurate the Audit Committee: u disclosure of information inaccordance with any applicable law the Remuneration Committee: and orregulation are met in circumstances where it is impractical u for the Board, or anyother Board Committee with delegated the Disclosure Committee.
u responsibility, to fulfil those obligations.
Inaccordance with The Board has ultimate responsibility for theannual approval these responsibilities, the Committee may make disclosures on ofthetreasury and cashmanagement policy and continues to behalf of the Board.
The Committee will take advice, including besupported in its work by the Currency Committee.
The Currency as appropriate to the subject matter from the Companys Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director, LouisaBurdett, broker, external auditor and legal advisors, on the form and and meets on a monthly basis tomanage the application of the content of any disclosure under consideration.
The remit of the Groups treasury policy.
Further details on the policyand the Disclosure Committee, its conduct and terms of reference have activities of the Currency Committee are included in note 14 been considered inlight of the Market Abuse Regime, which tothefinancial statements.
The Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committee reports The Committee comprises all Directors ofthe Company and areset out on pages 47 to 64 and that for the Disclosure theGroup Company Secretary, with a quorum being any two Committee is shown opposite.
These Committees operate under Directors which must include one of the Chairman, the CEO terms of reference and report to the Board at each Board meeting orthe Finance Director.
The Chairman of each Committee via the Committee Chairmen.
The terms of reference are reviewed meeting will be appointed on an ad hoc basis.
Meetings of the at least annually, with any revisions proposed by the respective Committee may be called by any member of the Committee Committees andthen approved by the Board.
The Board has onany period of notice, provided that notice is given to provided its Committees with sufficient resources to undertake allmembers.
their duties, including access to the services of the Group Company Secretary and external advisors, where appropriate.
The Chief Executives Committee In discharging his responsibilities, the ChiefExecutive is assisted by the Executive Leadership Team ELT.
The ELT comprises Nominations Committee Report thefour executive Directors, DavidHummel, Louisa Burdett, Page 47 TimCooper and Martin Court.
They are supported in their duties by the Group HR Director, the Group Company Secretary Audit Committee Report and theGeneral Counsel.
This team is responsible for making Page 48 recommendations to the Board on matters that are reserved fortheir decision, such as strategy, corporate development Remuneration CommitteeReport andannual budgets.
Formal meetings of the ELT are held Page 51 twelvetimes ayear, as well as participating inother forums which support the conduct of the Groups business.
The terms of reference of theNominations, Audit and  are availableon the Companys website www.
com and in paper form on request from the registered office of the Company.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 43 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Mr fide Smedt was appointed as a non-executive Director in July 2008.
Board effectiveness He is currently the chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Composition, independence anddiversity of the Board Board recognises that the proposed re-appointment of Mr fide Smedt At the date of this report, the Board comprised a non-executive at the forthcoming AGM will mean that, during the course ofthe Chairman, fourother non-executive Directors and four executive year, he will have served asa non-executive Director for morethan Directors.
The Code requirement that at least half the Board should nine years.
The Board is mindful of thisand therefore inconsidering be independent non-executive Directors has continued to be met whether to recommend MrDeSmedt for re-appointment has given throughout the year.
The non-executive Directors including the particular regard for his continued independence both in character Chairman, Larry Pentz, who was independent on his appointment and judgement, as to which the Board is fully satisfied.
The Board are all considered by the Board to be independent of management also considered the work which has been done in preparing arevised and free from any business orother relationship that could materially Remuneration Policy see page 52 and which will be separately interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
considered byshareholders at theAGM to be held on8February 2017.
The composition of the Board is intended to ensure that its The Board took into consideration the important part MrDeSmedt membership represents a mix of backgrounds, skills and experience has provided indeveloping the revised policy, and felt itappropriate that will enhance the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
that he should during 2017 leadthe implementation of such policy Diversity in Board composition is considered to be an important part in the event the shareholders approve it for adoption or address any of overall Board effectiveness.
As a result, in looking for prospective amendments whichmight otherwise be required.
Directors, there is regard to the skills and experience of the Board at The Notice of AGM on page 100 gives details of the Directors.
that time, the need to address longer-term succession and business Furtherinformation on both the appointment and replacement priorities, inherent qualities, as well as cultural background.
The ofDirectors is given in the Directors report on page 66. annual formal evaluation of the Board takes board diversity into account and is instrumental in identifying any new skill requirements, Conflicts of interest as well as possible shortcomings, gaps or inefficiencies.
At its most Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation recent effectiveness review, the Board concluded that any future where a direct or indirect conflict of interest may occur and appointments tothe Board should give due consideration to cultural procedures are in place to deal with any situation where a conflict and ethnic background which would be of value as the Group may be perceived.
The Board confirms that it has considered and continues toextend its global reach.
authorised any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest in accordance with these procedures.
The Board has specifically Current female representation on the Board is 33% and, therefore, considered the other appointments held by Directors, details of exceeds the minimum target representation level as recommended which are contained in their biographies on pages 38 to 39, and by the Davies Review.
The Board recognises the importance of hasconfirmed that each isable to devote sufficient time to fulfil gender diversity at the level below the Board and is committed to thedutiesrequired of them under the terms of their contracts ensuring an appropriate level of gender diversity, in particular at orletters of appointment.
There is a commitment in the Company tosupport women in overcoming the barriers they facein rising Board evaluation tothe top of the management structure.
The female representation The Board recognises that a rigorous performance evaluation is on the ELT is 25%.
Further information on the total female important to optimise Board effectiveness.
A formal evaluation of representation on our workforce isprovided in our Sustainability the Board, Board Committees and individual Directors performance report onpage 34. is carried out annually.
The most recent externally facilitated Board evaluation was conducted in2015 with Stone Court Consulting.
As already mentioned above, we also recognise the importance of Theresults of that evaluation were taken into consideration in diversity ingeneral at Board level and our Board members comprise setting the programme of business for the Board and Committees a number of different nationalities with a wide range of experience whichwere implemented in2016.
from a variety of business backgrounds.
Further information on our Group HR policies, including those on equal opportunities and As explained in our 2015 annual report, in the current year, the diversity, is set out on page 34. performance evaluation was conducted internally through use of a questionnaire which was prepared by the Group Company Secretary Re-election of Directors following consultation with chairs of the Board and Committees.
Consistent with best practice, all the Directors will retire at the AGM Aswell as questions designed to support the assessment, the being held in February 2017.
Being eligible all the Directors will offer questionnaire also incorporated sections that invited respondents themselves for re-election by shareholders.
The Board is recommending toprovide comments and observations on aspects of the business that shareholders vote in favour of the re-elections, having given due of the Board and Committees.
consideration to performance and terms of office, with particular consideration as to the proposed re-appointment of Patrick fide Smedt.
44 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance The results of completed questionnaires were shared with the Information and support Chairman of the Board and chairs of the respective committees and The Company has robust processes in place to ensure the Board discussed at subsequent meetings held in September.
The overall receives management information and reports on strategic and conclusion was that the Board and its committees were performing operational matters on a timely basis.
The CEO also updates the satisfactorily and that solid progress had been made in addressing Board on progress against the Groups strategic plan.
Briefings areas which the Directors had previously identified as meriting byoperational management also take placeregularly to enhance additional attention.
theBoards understanding of the business.
The Board considers that performance evaluation should form Directors can take independent professionaladvice where necessary animportant part of evolving practice not just at Board level but at theCompanys expense and have access tothe services of the helping to improve performance through the organisation.
TheGroup Company Secretary is example, as part of continuous improvement, during the year, the responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and Board enhanced the internal reporting on assessment, ranking and forproviding advice to the Board on corporate governance.
Led by the Director of Risk and Compliance, a theappointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary project was implemented which reviewed in depth the risks faced arematters for the Board as a whole.
bythe Group, their relative internal ranking and mitigation measures.
Appropriate levels of insurance cover are obtained for all Directors The Board concluded that the work has improved the quality of and Officers of the Company.
Further information on Directors reporting, helping the Board to better understand, track and indemnities is given in the Directors Report on page 67. evaluate the effectiveness of the management of risk.
Executive Directors performance is reviewedby the Remuneration Accountability Committee in conjunction with the Chief Executive, except in the Financial and business reporting case of his own performance review.
The Chairmans performance The Board is responsible for presenting afair, balanced and isreviewed by the Board, without the Chairman present.
This was understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
led by the SID in the current year.
Reporting is at a divisional level with the head of each division reporting to the Board through a standardised reporting process.
During the year, pursuant to the Code, the Chairman met with The Group has a comprehensive annual budgeting process and the theother non-executive Directors without the executive Directors annual budget is approved by the Board.
Reforecasts are presented present, and the SID met with the other non-executive Directors to the Board during the course of the year.
The statement that gives the reasons why the Directors continue to Induction and training adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements All new non-executive Directors receive a personalised induction is given in the Directors Report strategic report on page 24. programme, tailored to their experience, background and particular Inaccordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors have area of focus.
The programme has evolved over time to take into assessed the prospect of the Company over a longer period than account feedback from Directors.
It includes a wide range of meetings thetwelve months required by the Going Concern provision.
with other Directors and senior management, attending results and Thisassessment is outlined in our Viability Statement on page 24. broker briefings and opportunities to visit the Groups operations outside of the UK.
New executive Directors also receive an induction Risk management and internal controlprocedures focused on their new role and wider responsibilities which includes The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent briefings on areas such as directors duties and corporate governance ofthe principal risks itis willing to take in achieving its strategic guidelines and best practice.
Induction programmes cover matters such objectives.
It is ultimately responsible for maintaining sound risk as Group structure and strategy, industry and competitive environment, management systems including financial controls, controls in Group risk profile and our approach to risk and safety, health and respect of the financial reporting process and controls of an environmental matters.
Training including social, environmental and operational and compliance nature.
The Board is supported in ethical matters is also provided.
The Board evaluation process also assessing the risk framework and internal reporting by the Audit considers specific training or development needs.
In the current year, Committee and our Risk Management Committee which reports the Board has received training in connection with the new Market tothe ELT.
Abuse Regime which was also implemented for senior managers A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather and those deemed to haveresponsibilities which may from time than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and totime mean they could have access to inside information.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, the Board is responsible for establishing formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining anappropriate relationship with the Companys auditor.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 45 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness Accountability continued ofthe internal control system, including financial, operational and Risk management and internal controlprocedures continued compliance controls, and risk management in accordance with the As explained on page 44 see section on Board Evaluation, during Code.
As a result of this process, we are satisfied that there have the year the Board has undertaken a review of the effectiveness ofthe been no significant failings or weaknesses.
We confirm that the risk management framework and policies.
In addition, twice a year, Group has complied with the Code provisions on internal control the Board reviews the principal risks, allowing it the opportunity byoperating throughout the year ended 30September 2016 toreview the level of risk it is prepared to accept in pursuit of the andup to the date of approval of this Annual Report appropriate Groups strategic objectives.
This process will continue in 2017. procedures in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk The Board confirms that it has carried out arobust assessment Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and ofthe principal risks, that the principal risks remain within its risk BusinessReporting.
appetite and that there is a framework of continual and ongoing Further details of the risk management framework operating processes in place for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and atVictrex are given on pages 20 to 21. managing the principal risks faced by the Company, as outlined above.
These processes were reviewed during the year by the ELT Risk Management Committee, and the findings reported to the Relations with shareholders Audit Committee, which has responsibility for reviewing the risk The Board as a whole has a responsibility forensuring that management systems andthe effectiveness of these systems satisfactory engagement with shareholders takes place, based on andreporting tothe Board.
the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Board achieves this through dialogue with shareholders and analysts, led by the Chief The Boards view of the key strategic andoperational risks and how Executive, Group Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations.
we seek to manage those risks is set out on pages 20 to24.
The Board believes that appropriate steps have been taken during The independent Risk and Compliance function supports the Board the year to ensure that all members of the Board and, in particular in its review ofthe effectiveness of the system of internal control.
the non-executive Directors, develop an understanding of the views There is a rolling programme of business assurance review carried of major shareholders.
Such steps include, for example, analyst and out across the Group, co-ordinated by the Director of Risk and broker briefings, a standing Board agenda item covering investor Compliance, who reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee relations matters, consideration by the Board of monthly brokers in relation to business assurance matters.
The Audit Committee reports and feedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly reviews the annual business assurance plan, its findings, effectiveness, basis.
The canvassing of major shareholders views for the Board allocation of appropriate resources and risk management activities inadetailed investor survey is conducted during the year by our and priorities.
In addition, the Chairman is available to meet In addition to the controls described above, there are further steps institutional shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director and to provide assurance over the completeness and accuracy of our other non-executive Directors will attend meetings with major reporting process, which include review and recommendation by shareholders, if requested.
No such meetings were requested the Audit Committee and review and approval by the Board.
The Group has a whistleblowing policy, which is subject to periodic Institutional investor relations activity is normally concentrated in review for assurance that it reflects good practice and is compliant theperiods following the announcement of the half year and full with relevant local regulations within each of the territories in year results, although the Group participates in investor conferences whichweoperate.
The most recent detailed review of the policy and UK and overseas investor roadshows throughout the year.
The Audit Committee oversees Additional presentations and site visits are arranged where whistleblowing arrangements, bywhich staff may, in confidence, appropriate and we hosted a number of such visits during 2016. raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial All shareholders will have the opportunity toask questions at the reporting or other matters.
The Company continues to operate its forthcoming AGM, which is being held on 8 February 2017.
The Global Code of Conduct policy and embed this throughout the Chairs of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees Group.
This policy includes areas such as anti-bribery, data protection will be available to answer questions atthat meeting.
Proxy votes and conflicts of interest.
It isan important element in our drive to lodged on each AGM resolution are announced at the meeting, promulgate practices and standards which we recognise contribute published on theCompanys website and announced viathe to our reputation asabusiness and our standing with all Regulatory Information Service.
46 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance Membership Larry Pentz The Nominations Committee comprises all of the non-executive Chairman of the Directors and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Larry Pentz.
Nominations The Committee met on two occasions during the year.
Committee Responsibilities The Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size, diversity and composition of the Board.
This is to ensure that the Company has the right leadership to effectively deliver the Companys strategy.
It is also responsible for succession planning and identifying and recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
The Committee hasapplied the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions in developing the Companys policies on succession planning andappointments.
Nominations Committee report The Committee is responsible for regularly In considering an appointment, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge, independence and experience of reviewing the structure, size, diversity and theBoard and prepares a description of the role and capabilities composition of the Board.
This is to ensure required for a particular appointment.
Internal candidates are considered where appropriate.
During the year, meetings of the that the Company has the right leadership Committee considered the Companys initiatives for the training toeffectively deliver the Companys strategy.
anddevelopment of employees, including that to support succession planning and career progression to senior positions in the Group, which the Board recognises can in turn support future considerations on the appointment of internal candidates to executive positions, but also plays an important part in enabling the Group to fulfil its strategic objectives.
The Nominations Committee also reviews the time required from each non-executive Director and any other significant commitments of the Chairman.
The 2016 review found the non-executives time commitments to be sufficient to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, the Directors submit themselves for election or re-election at the AGM following their appointment and annually thereafter.
Boardroom diversity The Boards Statement on diversity, whichhas been published onour website, isas follows: The Board of Victrex plc welcomed the publication in February 2011 of the Davies Review on Women on Boards.
Our current female representation on the Board is 33% and is therefore in excess of theminimum representation level by 2015 as recommended by the Davies Review.
We also recognise the importance of diversity in general at Board level and our Board members comprise a number of different nationalities with a wide range of experience from avariety ofbusiness backgrounds.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 47 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Committee meetings Andrew Dougal The Committee believes it is important to have regular engagement Chairman of the with senior management as part of addressing items of business AuditCommittee effectively.
Accordingly in addition to the members of the Committee, the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Director of Risk and Compliance and the External Audit Engagement Partner routinely attend each meeting, and other executive Directors may also attend as appropriate.
In addition, other members of the management team may be asked to attend certain meetings to provide further insight into specific issues and developments.
The Committee also meets with the auditortwice each year without management being present.
Responsibilities The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with a programme of business based on its terms of reference which Audit Committee report arereviewed annually and approved by the Board.
The terms of During 2016, an integrated ERP system reference were reviewed in September 2016 and revised to reflect the FRC Audit Committee Guidance.
The terms of reference are wasimplemented in the UK which was available on our website, www.
The key responsibilities commissioned over the summer, following of the Committee are to: earlier rollout in the US.
The introduction u review the financial statements halfyearly and annual reports and announcements relating to the financial performance of ofthe new system is in response to the theCompany: continued evolution of the Group.
At each of u monitor the financial reporting process: its meetings, the Committee received reports u review the risk management systems andthe effectiveness from management on the detailed planning, ofthose systems: preparation and training for implementation.
u monitor and review the effectiveness ofthe internal audit function: I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the u review and challenge actions and judgements of management year ended 30 September 2016.
The Audit Committee is integral inrelation to financial statements: tothe scrutiny which is given by the Board to the performance u review significant legal and regulatory matters: ofmanagement and the standing of the Group as a whole.
u review the Companys internal financial controls that is, the systems The Committee has three scheduled meetings each year, in addition established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial to which I meet with members of the executive and management risks and the Companys internal control management systems: outside of those formal meetings to discuss matters which fall within the Committees terms of reference.
This allows me to enhance my u review the Committees terms of reference, carrying out an understanding of the business, its priorities and challenges and annual performance evaluation exercise and assessing the facilitates engagement with management in addressing actions operation of theCommittee: agreed by the Committee.
u review all matters associated with the appointment, terms, In submitting to shareholders the report of the Committee for this year, remuneration, independence, objectivity and effectiveness we have been mindful of the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees oftheexternal audit process and to review the scope and published during 2016 and these considerations are reflected within the resultsof the audit: and following disclosures on the principles which the FRC has promulgated.
u report to the Board on how the Committee has discharged theaforementioned responsibilities, including an assessment Membership ofwhether the financial statements are fair, balanced and I am a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of understandable and provide the information necessary for Scotland, and in addition to serving as chairman of an audit shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business committee for another FTSE 250 company, I have previously served modeland strategy.
as Group Finance Director for a FTSE100 business.
The Board is satisfied that I have recent and relevant financial experience as Within its routine business, the Committee assesses the Groups required by the Code.
The other members of the Audit Committee financial integrity, as part of which it also considers the systems are Patrick fide Smedt, Pamela Kirby and Jane Toogood.
The ofcontrols associated with financial reporting.
During 2016, an qualifications of the Audit Committee members are outlined in integrated ERP system was implemented in the UK which was theDirectors biographies on pages 38 and 39. commissioned over the summer, following earlier roll-out in the US.
The introduction of the new system is in response to the continued The members of the Audit Committee havebeen selected with the evolution of the Group.
At each of its meetings, the Committee aim of providing a wide range of financial and commercial expertise received reports from management on the detailed planning, which includes competence relevant to the sector in which the preparation and training for implementation.
In addition, it Company operates and which enables the Committee to fulfil its considered separate reports from an independent consultant, function.
The function of the Committee as a whole and the engaged by the Director of Risk and Compliance which evaluated effectiveness in fulfilling its remit were considered as part of the the steps being followed aspart of assessing and mitigating most recent evaluation of performance which was completed potential risks associated with the launch.
inthesummer and reported to the Board in September.
In the following sections, we explain how the Committee fulfils its responsibilities and highlight matters which have been addressed during the course of the year.
48 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance Defined benefit accounting: the valuationof the defined u Financial reporting benefitschemeis dependent on a number ofassumptions thatare The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting inherently judgemental.
Following the closure ofthe scheme on is to review with both management and the external auditor, and 31March2016, judgement on future salary growth ratesceased, report to the Board where requested or required, the but judgement over future interest and inflation rates remain with appropriateness of the half year and annual financial statements sensitivities of -1% in either having a material impact on the value concentrating on, amongst other matters: of scheme liabilities.
The Audit Committee assesses these u the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: judgements based on reports received from management and the Groups actuarial advisors.
The Committee concluded that the u the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial assumptions used and the resulting valuation were reasonable.
reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: To aid the conduct of reviews, the Committee considers reports from the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller u material areas in which significant judgements have been applied andalso reports from the external auditor on theoutcomes of or there has been discussion with the external auditor: itshalf-year review and annual audit.
As a Committee, we also u whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced monitor the activities of KPMG in order to obtain assurance of and understandable and provides the information necessary for theircontinuing independence and objectivity.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The statement incorporating the conclusion External audit of this assessment is included on page 69: and Appointment, independence andeffectiveness u any correspondence from regulators inrelation to our KPMG was re-appointed as auditor at the 2016 AGM.
Committee considers the re-appointment of the external auditor each year, whilst assessing its independence and effectiveness on In addition to the above, the Committee supports the Board in anongoing basis.
The Committee reports its findings to the Board completing its assessment of the adoption of the going concern alongside its recommendation.
basis of preparing the financial statements.
For the first time in the 2015 Annual Report, the Directors included a viability statement The Audit Committee actively considers the effectiveness of the concerning the prospects of the Company over a five-year period, as external audit process on an ongoing basis.
This process commences required by section C. 2.2 of the Code.
During 2016, the Committee in advance of the audit with the identification by the Committee of reviewed the approach taken by the Directors in preparing and the key risks to audit quality and effectiveness.
The Committee then reporting on the Viability Statement with due regard for wider assesses the auditor against these key risks twice during the annual market practice and developing guidance.
As a result of that review, audit cycle.
This focused approach is supplemented by a detailed the Committee was satisfied that the approach adopted was questionnaire provided to Committee members and management appropriate.
The Viability Statement for the 2016 financial year following the completion of the audit.
The questionnaire covers wasprepared on a consistent basis with that reported in 2015 theexternal auditor with consideration of the audit partner, the andison page 24. approach, communication, independence, objectivity, audit quality, interaction with internal audit and reporting and assesses the role In the preparation and final approval of thefinancial statements, of relevant functions within the Company in the context ofaudit theCommittee has discussed with management the key sources of findings and, in addition, their facilitation and engagement with estimation and critical accounting judgements outlined in note 20. theaudit process as a whole.
Theresults of the questionnaire are The significant areas of focus considered by the Committee in reported to and discussed bythe Committee and subsequently relation to the 2016 financial statements and how these have been presented to the Board forconsideration.
addressed are set out below.
In concluding that these represented the primary areas of judgement, the Audit Committee considered In addition to the above, this year the Committee also considered areport by management which referenced both quantitative and the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR qualitative judgement factors across each significant account teams report on KPMGs audit of the 2015 Annual Report and balance, assessing the impact on the user of the financial Accounts.
The AQRs findings and KPMGs responses to these statements.
These are also areas ofhigher audit risk and, findings were discussed with KPMG and included where appropriate accordingly, KPMG reported to the Committee on, and the in the aforementioned risk assessment of audit quality.
The AQRs AuditCommittee discussed, these judgements.
findings primarily relate to thecommunication of changes to their detailed audit plan and the sufficiency of work performed on Carrying value of inventory: the Committee reviews the nature of revenue recognition in some components, and the inclusion of thecosts absorbed into inventory, thevariances between standard membership data as a significant risk indetermining the pension cost and actual cost and the reasons for movements in inventory obligation.
KPMG reported to the Audit Committee as part of their value period to period.
The basis for and level of provisioning, final report on both of these matters, with the Audit Committee including those areas which are judgemental, ispresented to the concluding that both had been addressed satisfactorily.
The Committee concluded, based onthe information provided, that the valuation ofinventory andlevel When assessing KPMGs continued effectiveness, independence of provisioning werereasonable.
andre-appointment, the Committee considered the length of their tenure.
KPMG has been our auditor since 1993 23 years, during which time the audit has never been put to tender.
The Committee continues to consider KPMG to be independent and effective in their role as auditor.
Accordingly, the Committee has provided the Board with its recommendation to the shareholders to re-appoint KPMG as external auditor for the year ending 30 September 2017.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 49 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Report continued 51,800 2015: 68,000.
The non-audit fees primarily related to External audit continued theinterim review, the pension scheme audit and completion of the Appointment, independence andeffectiveness continued pension advisory work in respect of the Defined Benefit pension The Committee has considered FRC guidance, including the provisions scheme closure which commenced in 2015.
Alternative providers of the 2014 Code, concerning the need to put the external audit were considered but not deemed practical in the specific circumstances.
totender at least every ten years.
Taking account of the prevailing No approval was given to any non-audit services not in accordance requirements under the Companies Act, the Committee has with the APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
When awarding determined that an audit tender will be conducted in 2017 in order non-audit work to KPMG, the Committee is cognisant of the EU to allow the new audit firm to be in place for the year ending Audit Regulation, including the cap on non-audit fees of 70% of 30September 2018.
This timeline aligns with the final year of the theaudit fee, and the ongoing consultations on how this will be current partners term being the year ending September 2017.
Given implemented into UK regulation.
Non-audit services in the 2016 thelength of KPMGs tenure they will not be invited to participate financial year represented 35% 2015: 49% of the audit fee.
At each of its meetings in 2016, the Committee hasdiscussed the appropriate steps with due regard for prevailing Risk management, internal control andinternal audit guidance and legislation.
The Audit Committee has responsibility forreviewing the risk management systems and effectiveness of these systems.
The Specifically, at the meeting in September 2016, the Committee responsibilities and processes in respect of risk management are considered a paper on the proposed tender process, which also described separately on pages 20 to 24 and pages 45 to 46. outlined proposals on the selection approach, with due regard for guidance and best practice in accordance with C. 3.2 of the Code.
The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Groups The Committee will be leading the process, but has approved the internal controlsystems.
appointment of a subcommittee which, led by me, has responsibility The Director of Risk and Compliance, asappointed by the for defining and managing the process, collating information to be Committee, has responsibility for internal audit and independently provided to the tendering firms and developing the selection reports to the Chairman ofthe Audit Committee in relation to criteria.
Following approval of the above by the Audit Committee, internal control matters.
In addition to attendance by invitation at the subcommittee shall run the first stage of the tender process and meetings of the Committee, I have met on three separate occasions make a recommendation, based on the pre-defined criteria, of two during the year with the Director of Risk and Compliance to consider shortlisted firms for consideration by the full Committee.
It is findings from internal audit and progress being made aswe evolve expected that the timing of the final decision will allow the new our practices associated with the identification and reporting of risk.
audit firm to observe the audit which will be undertaken by KPMG for the 2017 financial year and then be fully in place as auditor for The programme of business for the internal audit function is the year ending September 2018.
As part of its preparations for considered and approved each year by the Committee.
In reviewing thetendering process, the Committee has satisfied itself that there the proposed programme, the Committee gives consideration to the areno contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice Groups strategic priorities and specific initiatives which are being of external auditor and has put in place measures to identify undertaken, which could impact the business and also the findings andmanage conflicts of interest throughout the process.
The and actions arising from the assessment of the Groups risk register.
Committee has been mindful of the new regulations requiring a Thereafter, together with findings from audits which are presented cooling in period, which precludes the performance of certain at each meeting, the Committee considers progress against agreed non-audit services for the year preceding appointment as auditor.
objectives as part of ensuring the robustness and proper resourcing of the function to enable it to perform effectively.
Where appropriate Non-audit services to the nature of the work being undertaken, reviews are supported To further safeguard the independence and objectivity of the by other independent assurance providers, in particular the review external auditor, non-audit services provided by the external auditor during 2016 of work associated with implementing the new ERP System.
are considered and where appropriate authorised by the Committee in accordance with a non-audit services policy.
The policy is outlined The Committee has reflected upon the FRCGuidance on Audit in an appendix to the Committees terms of reference, which are Committees and was satisfied that the principles concerning internal published on our website.
This policy places constraints on the audit are reflected in the prevailing responsibilities and function of quantum and type of services undertaken by our auditor with the Companys Internal Audit department.
theaim of safeguarding the independence and objectivity of our auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year ended 30 September 2016 were 50 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016
