Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 79 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 Corporate 2 52 132 193 Governance Report We believe that strong Board focus in 2016 governance should prevail The Board has spent considerable time in 2016 discussing the throughout the business, and we strategic priorities for the business over the next four years.
pay particular attention to supporting our EBO philosophy The Groups focus remains on strong organic growth, and customer-focused culture, maintaining our excellent asset quality and building the vital ingredients in the long-term Virgin Money Digital Bank.
We also decided during the year success of the Group.
that it would be prudent to defer our small and medium-sized enterprise SME plans and focus investment on enhancing our digital capability.
Should the economic outlook support it in the future, SME remains a strategic option for the business.
Although the UK economy has performed better than Dear Shareholders expected in 2016, economic prospects are likely to remain I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report uncertain as a result of geopolitical uncertainty and the for 2016.
This report sets out our approach to governance in UKs exit from the European Union.
Against this backdrop, practice, the work of the Board in 2016 and includes reports the Board and the Executive have implemented appropriate from the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and monitoring and oversight activities and have established the Board Risk Committee.
Information about the work of contingency plans to mitigate the impact of adverse macrothe Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors economic conditions that may result.
Further detail can be Remuneration Report on pages 105 to 125. found in the Risk Management Report.
This report also explains how the Group applies the highest A key emerging risk relates to the threat of cybercrime.
The principles of corporate governance, in particular those laid use of technology has become critical in delivering customer down in the 2014 edition of the Financial Reporting Council services, and we need to be able to respond effectively to UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code can be the increased threat of cybercrime associated with digital accessed at www.
expansion whilst maintaining pace with industry trends.
As such, the Board spent time considering our information I am pleased to report that during the year the Board and technology strategy, including investment in our existing its Committees met their objectives and carried out their systems, as well as our cyber resilience strategy.
Set out below are the principal will review delivery against both plans in the coming years.
corporate governance matters considered in 2016.
Board composition and succession Culture During 2016, succession planning and the composition of the At Virgin Money, we are proud of our culture, at the heart Board and its Committees have remained a key focus.
I am of which is our ambition to make everyone better off pleased to be welcoming Eva Eisenschimmel and Darren Pope EBO.
This means delivering good value to our customers, as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Eva joined the Board treating colleagues well, making a positive contribution to on 25 January 2017, and Darren will join the Board on 1 March society, building positive relationships with our partners and 2017.
Eva and Darren bring extensive banking and financial delivering sustainable profits to other shareholders.
services experience, helping to ensure the Board is well placed Part of the Boards responsibilities is to ensure that this strong to make the most of the opportunities that exist and meet the culture is at the core of everything that Virgin Money does.
Marilyn Spearing has notified the Board that she does not intend to seek re-election at our 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM and therefore will retire from the Board in 80 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report May.
Marilyn leaves with the Boards thanks and best wishes 2016 Governance Focus for the future.
Norman McLuskie will become Chair of the Corporate Governance Framework Remuneration Committee in May 2017, with Darren Pope becoming Chair of the Audit Committee during 2017 following Our corporate governance framework is reviewed annually to an orderly transition.
ensure it remains effective and appropriate as the business evolves.
Board effectiveness Succession planning I am pleased to report that the changes introduced and implemented from the 2015 Board Effectiveness Evaluation Our approach to succession planning ensures the desired mix have led to improvements in a number of areas.
Details of of skills and experience of Board members now and in the the 2016 Board Effectiveness Evaluation, together with future.
The 2016 Board composition review has led to two information about our progress against the 2016 roadmap new appointments onto the Board.
recommendations and priorities are on pages 89 and 90.
Board effectiveness will remain a key focus.
Risk Management and viability statement The Board, via the Board Risk Committee, is responsible for Looking ahead the Groups risk management and internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board, in conjunction with We will implement the actions from the 2016 Board the Audit Committee, is also responsible for assessing the Effectiveness Evaluation, including making further progress going concern and longer term viability of the Company and on the longer-term Board succession planning.
ensure we are ready for the implementation of structural reform ring-fencing and other regulatory capital reform.
Audit Finally, I would like to thank the Board, our employees and our shareholders for their support and commitment throughout The Board, via the Audit Committee, oversees internal and 2016, and as always, I am open to engagement with our external audit processes, including the relationship with the shareholders over the course of 2017. external auditors.
Remuneration The Board ensures, via the Remuneration Committee, that there is a clear link between remuneration and the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Read more in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 105 to 125.
Glen Moreno Chairman Diversity 27 February 2017 Diversity and inclusion is a strategic priority for Virgin Money.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity in enabling Board effectiveness.
Read more on the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion on page 37 of the Strategic Report and the Boards performance against the Board Diversity Policy on page 96.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 81 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 The Board, its members and additional support Purpose and responsibilities The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of Virgin Money.
It achieves this by setting the strategy and overseeing delivery against it.
It establishes the culture, values and standards of the Group, effectively managing risk, monitoring financial performance and reporting and ensuring that appropriate and effective succession planning arrangements and remuneration policies are in place.
The role of the Directors Set out below are the key roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and other Board members.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Group.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board while the Chief Executive manages and leads the business.
Chairman Chief Executive Glen Moreno was appointed Non-Executive Chairman in May 2015.
Jayne-Anne Gadhia was appointed Chief Executive in March 2007.
The Chairman: The Chief Executive: has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board and manages the Group on a day-to-day basis in accordance with the promotion of the highest standards of corporate governance: strategy and long-term objectives approved by the Board: has responsibility for leading the development of the Groups culture makes decisions on all areas affecting the operations, performance as a whole: and strategy of the Groups business with the exception of those matters reserved to the Board : sets the Boards agenda to ensure that the Board devotes its time and attention to the right matters: provides leadership and direction to senior management: builds an effective and complementary Board: co-ordinates all activities to implement the Groups strategy and to manage the business in accordance with the risk appetite set by the plans succession and Board appointments in conjunction with the Board: and Nomination Committee: and has responsibility for overseeing the adoption of the Groups culture ensures effective communication with shareholders.
in the day-to-day management of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director The Non-Executive Directors are listed on pages 75 and 76.
Norman McLuskie was appointed Senior Independent Director SID in January 2010.
Non-Executive Directors: The SID: challenge constructively: helps resolve any shareholder concerns: help to develop and set the Groups strategy: acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and Chief Executive on participate actively in the decision-making process of the Board: Board and shareholder matters: scrutinise the performance of Management in meeting agreed goals is a conduit, as required, for the views of the other Directors on the and objectives: performance of the Chairman: provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact prudent and effective controls: through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial information and contact is inappropriate: systems of risk management: and if required, attends meetings with major shareholders and financial determine appropriate levels of remuneration of the Executive analysts to understand issues and concerns: and Director via the Remuneration Committee.
conducts the Chairmans annual performance appraisal.
82 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report The role of the Chief Financial Officer CFO Authority and delegation The CFO is responsible for the financial management of the Corporate governance framework Group, and the day-to-day management of the balance The Groups corporate governance framework comprises the sheet.
The CFO ensures that the Group meets statutory Board authority and the delegated executive authority.
reporting obligations, delivers regulatory capital and liquidity requirements and identifies opportunities to improve the commercial performance of the business, within the agreed Board authority risk appetite.
The Board authority sets out the matters reserved to the Board.
This includes decisions concerning the strategy and long-term In January 2016, the Group announced the appointment of objectives of the Group, capital and financial budgets, significant Peter Bole as CFO.
Peter joined Virgin Money in November contracts and transactions and various statutory and regulatory 2016, and after a period of transition was appointed as CFO on approvals.
The approval of remuneration policy, risk appetite 1 January 2017, following the retirement of Dave Dyer.
and risk management framework are also matters reserved to the Board.
The Board authority delegates responsibility for dayThe role of the Company Secretary to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive and The Company Secretary is accountable to the Board.
The sets out the basis for delegation of authorities from the Board to Company Secretary provides practical support to the Directors, Board Committees.
both as individuals and as a collective, with particular emphasis Further details of Board reserved matters can be found at on supporting the Non-Executive Directors in maintaining virginmoney.
appropriate standards of probity and corporate governance.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for facilitating communications with shareholders, as appropriate, and Delegated executive authority ensuring due regard is paid to their interests.
All Directors, The Chief Executive delegates aspects of her own authority, including Non-Executive Directors, have access to the advice and as permitted under the corporate governance framework, to services of the Company Secretary in relation to the discharge members of the Executive.
As well as regularly discussing business performance, the Executive Committees meet monthly to consider key Access to advice business matters.
Certain Executive Committees meet more The Group also provides access, at its own expense, to the frequently as required.
services of independent professional advisers in order to assist The Internal Audit Director and the Company Secretary attend the Directors in their roles whenever this is deemed necessary.
all Executive Committee meetings to ensure that there is appropriate internal audit oversight and that the highest standards of corporate governance are maintained.
"#PBSE PNJOBUJPO ""VEJU #PBSE 3JTL 3FNVOFSBUJPO $IJFG &YFDVUJWF $PNNJUUFF $PNNJUUFF $PNNJUUFF $PNNJUUFF BZOF ""OOF BEIJB &YFDVUJWF BOE &YFDVUJWF $PNNJUUFFT Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 83 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 The main Board Committees are replicated at the Bank level The role of the Board Committees with the exception of the Nomination and Remuneration The Board is supported by its Committees which make Committees that operate at the main Board level only and recommendations to the Board on matters delegated to them, consider appointments, succession and remuneration matters in particular in relation to internal control, risk management, on a Group-wide basis."
financial reporting, governance, succession planning and remuneration matters.
The current Board Committees are set The Groups financial services business of investments, out on page 82. insurance and pensions is conducted through Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Limited VMUTM and Virgin Money Each Board Committee, other than the Nomination Personal Financial Service Limited VMPFS.
VMUTM and Committee, comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors VMPFS are both regulated by the FCA.
The Nomination Committee also comprises the Chairman and a Non-Executive Director nominated by the During 2016, a review of the governance arrangements controlling shareholder, the Virgin Group the Virgin Group of VMUTM was undertaken, leading to a number of Nominee Director.
enhancements including the introduction of Group NonExecutive Directors onto the VMUTM Board to bring further Each Board Committee Chair reports to the Board on depth and breadth of experience of investment management.
the activities of the Committee.
Reports from the Board Committees can be found on pages 93 to 104, and information Virgin Money Giving Limited VMG is a not-for-profit about the work of the Remuneration Committee is included in company within the Group and the vehicle for Virgin Moneys the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 105 to 125.
The charity fundraising and donations website.
VMG has two terms of reference for each of the Committees can be found Independent Non-Executive Directors on its board.
Board composition Subsidiary governance Board size The Groups banking business of residential mortgages, The Board is of sufficient size and composition to reflect a savings and credit cards is conducted through Virgin Money broad range of views and perspectives whilst allowing all plc the Bank which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Directors to participate effectively in meetings.
Authority FCA and Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
The number and quality of Independent Non-Executive The composition of the Board of the Bank replicates that Directors on the Board facilitates effective challenge to the of the Company, save that the two Non-Independent Executive.
As at 31 December 2016, the Board comprised of Non-Executive Directors are not members.
The Chief Risk one Executive Director, six Non-Executive Directors four of Officer CRO and CFO from 30 January 2017 are additional whom are considered to be independent and the Chairman, Executive Directors of the Bank.
who was independent on appointment.
Further details on independence and succession planning are set out in the Nomination Committee Report at pages 94 and 95.
84 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Board composition as at 31 December 2016 The following changes to the Board and Committees have been or are to be made during 2017: #PBSE DPNQPTJUJPO CZ SPMF Eva Eisenschimmel joined the Board as an Independent Q &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS Non-Executive Director on 25 January 2017 and was Q PO &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS appointed as a member of the Audit, Board Risk, Q OEFQFOEFOU PO &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS Remuneration and Nomination Committees: JODMVEJOH $IBJSNBO Darren Pope will join the Board on 1 March 2017 and will become a member of the Audit, Board Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees: Marilyn Spearing has notified the Board that she does not intend to seek re-election at the 2017 AGM.
Marilyn is currently Chair of the Remuneration #PBSE DPNQPTJUJPO CZ UFOVSF Committee and a member of the Audit, Board Risk and Q ZFBST Q Nomination Committees: ZFBST Q ZFBST Norman McLuskie, SID, will succeed Marilyn as Chair of the Q ZFBST Remuneration Committee, effective in May 2017, on her retirement from the Board: and Darren Pope will succeed Norman McLuskie as Chair of the Audit Committee during 2017, following a period of transition.
More information on the Board composition and the #PBSE DPNQPTJUJPO CZ HFOEFS appointment process is set out in the Nomination Committee Q. FO Report on pages 93 to 96.
Q 8PNFO Executive Director service agreement and Non-Executive Director terms of appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specified term and are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors may have their appointment terminated in accordance with the Articles This Board composition data will change when the 2017 Board of Association of the Company Articles, their letters of changes referenced below take effect.
appointment or statute at any time without compensation.
The Chief Executive is able to terminate her appointment Board appointments by giving twelve months notice.
The Chairman has a six There were no changes to the Boards membership in 2016. month notice period.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment, and the service agreement of the Executive Board and Committee changes in 2017 Director, are available for inspection by shareholders at the During 2016, the Nomination Committee continued to keep Companys registered office.
under review succession planning and the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 85 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 Directors are responsible for notifying the Chairman and the Election and re-election Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any All Directors appointed since the 2016 AGM will stand for actual or potential conflicts.
All other Directors will retire and those wishing to serve again will stand for re-election by In addition, changes to the commitments of all Directors shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Marilyn Spearing has indicated are reported to the Board and a register of potential that she will not seek re-election.
conflicts is regularly reviewed by the Chairman to ensure the authorisation remains appropriate.
The Virgin Group will be entitled to vote on the ordinary resolutions at the AGM for the re-election of the Independent If any potential conflict arises, the relevant Director will Non-Executive Directors.
However, for the purposes of the excuse him herself from any meeting or discussions where the Listing Rules, each such resolution will also require approval potential conflict is considered, and all relevant material will by a majority of the votes cast by the Companys independent be restricted.
All potential conflicts authorised by the Board shareholders being the shareholders excluding the Virgin are recorded in a register of Directors Conflicts of Interest.
Group in order to be valid.
The outcome of both of these vote There were no potential conflicts arising in 2016 which counts will be announced following the 2017 AGM.
required a relevant Director to excuse him herself from any meeting or discussion on such matter.
Directors and Officers liability insurance Information on the Groups insurance cover and indemnity Time commitments arrangements for Directors is provided on page 127 of the Each Non-Executive Director is required to devote such time Directors Report.
as is necessary for the effective discharge of their duties to a minimum of 36 days per year and may be expected to Diversity policy relinquish other appointments to ensure that they can meet Diversity and inclusion is a strategic priority for the Group.
the time commitments of their role.
The Board is clear that diversity helps to improve the quality During 2016 the Chairman became an Independent Nonof decision making and is committed to continuing to increase Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Prisa the diversity of the Board.
The Chairmans role with the Group remains his primary role, and he limits his other Information on the Groups approach to diversity and commitments to ensure he can spend as much time as the inclusion, including its consideration in Board appointments, role requires.
is set out in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 93 to 96, and the Strategic Report on pages 36 and 37.
Executive Directors must seek authorisation from the Board before accepting any additional responsibilities or external Conflicts of interest appointments, and are restricted to holding no more than two Non-Executive Director roles excluding roles with bodies The Directors must avoid any situation which might give not for commercial purposes.
At 31 December 2016, the rise to a conflict between their personal interests and those Executive Director was compliant with this requirement and of the Group.
Prior to appointment, potential conflicts of continues to be at the date of this report.
interest are disclosed and assessed to ensure that there are no matters that would prevent the incoming Director from taking the appointment.
86 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Key matters considered by the Board The following table provides an overview of the key matters considered by the Board in 2016: Financial Strategy and customer focus Regulatory Approval of Budget for 2017 Review of progress against the Groups Overseeing the implementation of measures strategy toensure compliance with: Approval of results and analyst Ring-fencing presentations Approval of three year strategic and fundingplans Recovery and resolution Approval of dividends Consideration of potential acquisition Senior Managers & Certification Regime Approval of the Internal Capital Adequacy opportunities and strategic initiatives Assessment Process MREL and other regulatory changes Monitoring of conduct, culture and values Approval of funding and capital issuances Overseeing digital transformation, including approval of the partnership with 10x Future Technologies Risk management Governance Investors Approval of the Groups risk appetite and risk Review of Board and Committee structure Receiving Investor Relations updates management framework and composition Oversight of debt and equity investor Review of the Groups aggregate risk Review of the corporate governance reporting exposures, risk return and emerging risks framework Receiving AGM briefing and approval of Review of internal control systems Overseeing Board and Executive succession AGMNotice planning and appointment Monitoring cyber resilience Overseeing Board Effectiveness and Approval of stress test results Chairmans performance reviews training on the roles and responsibilities of a Director, Training including statutory duties and responsibilities as a Senior Board induction Manager and or an FCA approved person: and All Directors are expected to make an informed contribution a detailed induction programme across Risk and Finance based on an understanding of the Groups business model focusing on: risk appetite and the Groups risk profile, and the key challenges it faces.
The Chairman ensures that culture and framework, compliance and conduct all Directors receive a full induction on joining the Board, risk, financial analysis and controls, capital, stress facilitated by the Company Secretary and comprising: testing, liquidity, recovery and resolution planning and regulatory developments.
a corporate induction, including an introduction to the Board and a detailed overview of the Group, its strategy, The induction is tailored to the individual needs of the Director the competitive environment, operational and governance with regard to their specific role and experience to date.
This structures and main business activities and products: takes the form of reading materials, meetings with members of the Board and the Executive and site visits.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 87 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 informal sessions, and tailored sessions on specific business Professional development and training topics are a key component of the programme.
The Board receives regular training and information sessions on current or emerging issues.
The Company Secretary Site visits also play an important role by helping to connect maintains atraining and development log for each Director.
Directors with the business, our colleagues, and our customers needs.
Directors are also invited to attend courses, The Chairman is responsible for the training and professional management meetings and one-to-one meetings with development of Board members.
The training programme key Executives.
delivered throughout the year comprises both formal and Board agenda and attendance Attendance at meetings In 2016, a total of eleven Board meetings were held nine were scheduled and two were ad-hoc meetings.
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, he she has the opportunity to review any papers and provide comments to the Chairman, who then endeavours to represent the Directors views at the meeting.
The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out below.
The number of meetings held during the period that the Director held office is shown in brackets.
The Chairman attends all Committee meetings, at the invitation of the Committee Chairs.
Board Board Remuneration Nomination Risk Audit 1 Virgin Money Holdings UK plc meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Current Directors who served during 2016 Glen Moreno 11 11 7 7 Norman McLuskie 11 11 6 6 7 7 7 7 7 7 Colin Keogh 11 11 7 7 7 7 7 7 Marilyn Spearing 11 11 6 6 7 7 7 7 7 7 Geeta Gopalan 11 11 6 6 7 7 7 7 7 7 2 2 Gordon McCallum 10 11 6 7 Patrick McCall 11 11 Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE 11 11 1 The number of Board meetings includes two ad hoc meetings held in June.
The first in relation to a potential strategic opportunity and the second in relation to the UKs exit from the European Union.
88 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Setting the Board agenda Effective use of the Boards time The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board agenda.
The Board agenda was re-designed in 2016 following a key Prior to each Board meeting, the Chairman reviews the agenda recommendation of the 2015 Board Effectiveness Evaluation.
and time allocation with the Company Secretary and discusses The changes make more effective use of the Boards time key items of business with the Chief Executive.
Board agendas by prioritising critical issues.
In addition a variety of Board are structured to allow adequate time for discussion, in forums, including Chief Executive Chairman Independent particular of strategic matters.
Non-Executive Director only meetings and Non-Executive Director only meetings, were held during 2016.
The Chairman engages with the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive before each scheduled meeting to discuss any matters they wish to raise.
Board meetings and activity in 2016 The following timeline provides an overview of the Board meetings and activity in 2016: #4 ## ## # ## # # # #4 #4 ## BO 'FC.
"BZ VOF VMZ ""VH 4FQU 0DU PW %FD GVMM ZFBS 2 SFTVMUT BMG ZFBS SFTVMUT 2 SFTVMUT SFTVMUT BOE OBM BOE ""."
BOE EJWJEFOE EJWJEFOE Key Board Strategy Review B Board meeting During 2016 the Board spent considerable time discussing the BB Groups strategy.
The strategic review included the four year Board meeting and tailored briefing financial and funding plans, the 2017 budget and the external BS Board meeting and strategy discussion environment including the potential impact of the UKs exit from the EU.
Tailored briefings The following matters were all discussed in detail: risk oversight Credit cards business model and appetite, with an increased focus on cyber resilience: the impact of the macro and regulatory environment on base rates Cyber resilience and our capital: the need to continue managing costs tightly whilst maintaining appropriate levels of investment: growing our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP financial services business: the development of the Virgin Money Recovery and resolution plans Digital Bank, and potential acquisition opportunities.
The Board also spent time considering the updates received from the Board IFRS9 Committees on the Groups strategy.
Site visits The Boards key focus during these discussions was to ensure that Mortgage Lab Virgin Moneys strategy supports its ambition to make everyone better off.
Mortgage Operations Contact Centre Security Operations Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 89 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 A summary of the evaluation methodology and process Cyber resilience followed for the 2016 Board Effectiveness Evaluation and key It is Virgin Moneys determination to be consistently one of findings and recommendations are set out below.
the safest banks in the UK.
The Board plays an important role overseeing the Groups cyber resilience approach and the Board Evaluation level of investment into cyber security, and has appointed Geeta Gopalan as the accountable Non-Executive Director The Chairman, with support from the Company Secretary, responsible for leading on cyber security at Board level.
undertook a review of Board governance, encompassing the workings of the combined Company and Bank The Board provides robust challenge and scrutiny to ensure Boards during 2016. that the Group is adequately mitigating the threats it faces, The scope of the review was predominantly focused on and Virgin Moneys cyber resilience strategy is reviewed by the assessing progress against the key recommendations and Board on an annual basis with specific detailed reporting on priorities identified in the evaluation roadmap.
The output progress provided quarterly.
The review takes into account the from the Board evaluation, as summarised below, was latest cyber threat intelligence assessment.
This ensures that considered by the Nomination Committee in February 2017, the strategy remains fit for purpose to combat the potential and reflected in the updated roadmap for 2017. cyber threats the Group may face, as well as remaining aligned to the overall business objectives of the Group.
Board Committee Evaluation The review of Board Committee performance included an Board effectiveness assessment of whether each Committee had met its required Skills and experience of the Board responsibilities: and a qualitative review seeking views on As illustrated by the Board biographies on pages 75 and 76, the effective running of each Committee.
Feedback and key the Non-Executive Directors on our Board have a broad range themes were discussed at the respective Committee meetings, of skills and experience.
and the key recommendations for 2017 were agreed.
Annual Board Effectiveness Evaluation Director annual reviews In 2015 the Board engaged an external facilitator, Dr Tracy The Chairman met with each Non-Executive Director in Long CBE of Boardroom Review Limited, to undertake an early 2017 to discuss their contributions and effectiveness, independent review of the Boards current strengths and and reported to the Nomination Committee on the output.
The key recommendations, and priorities The Chairman also conducted the Chief Executives annual arising, were agreed by the Board in January 2016, and set out performance appraisal.
This activity supported the annual in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The next external review of Board composition and recommendations on evaluation is not due until 2018, but in the intervening years Director election re-election to be put to the shareholders at it is usual for the annual evaluation to be led by the Chairman, the 2017 AGM.
In parallel, the SID assessed the Chairmans with support from the Company Secretary.
performance, seeking input from the other Directors and updated the Nomination Committee in early 2017.
90 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Key conclusions from 2016 Board Effectiveness Evaluation: Deeper focus on the external landscape market environment, Progress against the 2016 Roadmap priorities competition, regulatory agenda recommendations Significant progress made on increasing Board time and focus on A need to balance strategic, operational and governance items and the external environment.
prioritise critical areas: Increased focus in the risk agenda on scenario planning, stress Better balance achieved in 2016 with appropriate and testing and crisis management, supporting both strategic planning proportionate Board focus on strategic, risk and control, process and ICAAP.
Concluded a series of Board briefings on topics including cards Significant Board interaction and engagement on strategy, threats business model, resolution planning, cyber resilience and areas of and opportunities and risk appetite.
The forward agendas will continue to be developed collaboratively Increased line one reporting and representation at Board and with consultation between the Chairman, Chief Executive, Committees enhancing further the Boards assessment of risk and Committee Chairs and Company Secretary.
The importance of the Board as a team Continued focus on leadership and ensuring that talent development A well balanced Board in terms of skills, experience and and succession planning are aligned with the current and future independence, strengthened further by the two new Board strategy appointments.
Ongoing review of Executive talent, capability and succession Positive progress made in creating a strong Board culture with plans to ensure alignment to current and future strategy.
mutual trust and respect, open communications, committed Further strengthening of the Executive in 2016: detail on key contribution, challenge and support by all members.
This will appointments is set out on page 84. remain an ongoing priority for the Chairman.
Greater visibility requested by the Board in 2017 on leadership and The variety of Board forums, introduced in the 2016 Board talent development programmes to ensure the Group continues to schedule, have worked well.
create opportunities for current and future leaders.
Greater clarity and visibility on Board succession and appointments Board basics, agenda setting and quality of information Considerable focus and progress made in 2016 on Board Continued high quality of Board information, with transparent composition, with the medium-term succession plans aligned to information flow.
the current and future strategy.
Increased efficiency in Board processes and meetings.
Senior Board Leadership and succession planning will remain a key Comprehensive and formal written reporting to Board on focus for 2017 and beyond, led by the Chairman in conjunction Committee business.
Further information regarding the 2016 Board Effectiveness Evaluation is set out in the Committee reports on pages 93 to 104.
Shareholder engagement and relationships The Board recognises the need for a programme of director by Virgin Group through whom the Chairman and engagement which offers all shareholders opportunities to other Non-Executive Directors are kept up to date during the receive information directly and enable them to share their year with the views of the Virgin Group.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have an ongoing dialogue Please see page 272 for details of the breakdown of the with the Virgin Group Nominee Director throughout the Companys share register.
So far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions Controlling shareholder contained in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by the Virgin Group and its associates, and the Company During 2016 the Groups controlling shareholder was Virgin has complied with the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
Group Holdings Limited Virgin Group.
Virgin Money is party to a Relationship Agreement with Virgin Group.
The Group was previously party to a Relationship Agreement with WLR.
All terms of this agreement ceased The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to to apply when WLR divested its remaining shareholding on ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business 21 November 2016. independently of its controlling shareholder.
The Relationship Agreement provides for the appointment of a nominee Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 91 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 During the year the Group has made specific contact with Investor relations shareholders in relation to the interim and final dividends, The Investor Relations Director has primary responsibility andthe 2016 AGM.
for co-ordinating day-to-day communications with existing shareholders, potential investors and analysts.
These The Annual General Meeting communications are effected through a combination of The AGM is the principal opportunity for shareholders to briefings to analysts and institutional investors, individual engage directly with the Board.
It is commonly used by discussions with shareholders and potential investors, retail shareholders as an opportunity to share views and regulatory announcements, press releases and updates on the raise questions during the meeting, but afterwards there Groups website.
is an opportunity to meet the Directors and members of the Executive.
The Investor Relations Director reports regularly to the Board to ensure it is informed of significant market developments, The Companys AGM was held in London in May 2016 and share price performance and changes in the shareholder base.
in excess of 77% of total voting rights were exercised by shareholders.
All of the resolutions put to shareholders were Investor contact passed with votes in favour representing over 95% of the votes cast, save for the resolution to approve the Directors In 2016, the Group has engaged in active discussions Remuneration Policy in respect of which votes in favour with corporate shareholders and potential investors on represented over 91% of the votes cast.
an individual basis, through investor presentations and attendance at investor conferences.
The Group will maintain All Board members attended the 2016 AGM and those seeking an active dialogue with shareholders, potential investors and reelection plan to attend the 2017 AGM.
All shareholders analysts to discuss the performance of the Group, its strategy will be invited to attend the 2017 AGM which will be held and new developments in 2017. on 3 May 2017 at the London offices of Allen & Overy LLP.
Information on the business to be considered at the AGM Additionally, the Group engaged with institutional investors will be set out in the Notice of Meeting which will be issued or their representatives on governance and remuneration to shareholders, together with any related documentation, matters in advance of the 2016 AGM and intends to do so in in due course.
The Group has an Investor Relations section on its website Internal control which contains information on all disclosures made to the market, including results presentations, annual reports, The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal interim results and trading statements.
The system is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal Shareholders, potential investors and analysts are able to ask and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws questions about the Group through the Investor Relations and regulations.
function or the Group Secretariat.
The Group uses a Three Lines of Defence model.
Further The SID is also available to meet with shareholders, and may detail can be found on page 133. be contacted through the Company Secretary at Jubilee House, Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE3 4PL.
The Directors and Executive are committed to maintaining a robust control framework as the foundation for the delivery Company Secretary and retail shareholders of effective risk management.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities in relation to the Groups systems of The Company Secretary oversees communications with risk management and internal control and for reviewing their individual retail investors.
effectiveness and conducted such a review during the year.
In The Groups registrar, Equiniti Limited, provides a dedicated addition, in 2015 Deloitte LLP Deloitte produced an External shareholder online and telephone dealing service to assist Quality Assurance Review EQAR report in relation to the shareholders in managing their investments.
Further detail Groups Internal Audit function and significant progress has can be found on page 272. been made during 2016 in respect of the reports findings.
92 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, Statement of compliance the Directors consider the nature and extent of the risks UK Corporate Governance Code facing the Group, the likelihood of a risk event occurring and the potential financial impact of failure.
A system of internal The 2014 Code applied to the Groups 2016 financial year.
The control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Directors have considered the contents and recommendations risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It therefore can of the Code and confirm that throughout the year the Group provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against has applied the main principles and complied with the the risk of material mis-statement or loss.
The policies supporting the Groups risk management The Group intends to comply with the 2016 Code when it framework define minimum standards for controls for all comes into force, and will report on compliance in the Groups material risk classes.
Business areas and support functions assess on a quarterly basis the internal controls in place to address all material risk The British Bankers Association Code for exposures across all risk classes.
This review considers the Financial Reporting Disclosure effectiveness of these material controls, including financial, The Group has adopted the British Bankers Association operational and compliance controls.
Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure and its 2016 Annual Further information on risk control and management is set out Report and Accounts has been prepared in compliance with in the Risk Management Report on pages 132 to 192. its principles.
Committee reports The following pages contain reports from each of the Boards Committees with information about the work of the Remuneration Committee included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 93 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 Nomination Committee Report Membership and meetings Meetings attended held in 1 Independent 2016 Committee Chair Glen Moreno Yes on 7 7 appointment Committee members We continue to work hard on the composition of the Board Norman McLuskie Yes 7 7 to ensure the desired mix of skills and experience of Board members both now and in the future Colin Keogh Yes 7 7 Marilyn Spearing Yes 7 7 Glen Moreno Chair, Nomination Committee Geeta Gopalan Yes 7 7 2 Gordon McCallum No 6 7 3 Eva Eisenschimmel Yes N A 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 Conflict with an external appointment.
3 Eva Eisenschimmel joined the Committee on 25 January 2017.
Chairmans overview During 2016, succession planning and the composition of the Board and its Committees remained a key focus.
Key highlights of the Nomination Committees activities included: the appointment by the Board, on recommendation of the Committee, of Eva Eisenschimmel and Darren Pope as Independent Non-Executive Directors: approval of Norman McLuskie as new Chair of the Remuneration Committee, effective in May 2017, upon the retirement from the Board ofMarilyn Spearing at the 2017 AGM: approval of Darren Pope as Chair of the Audit Committee, to take effect in 2017, following an orderly transition from Norman McLuskie: the appointment by the Bank Board in January 2017 of Peter Bole as an Executive Director: and consideration of Executive succession planning and overseeing the further strengthening of the Executive.
Further details on the new Board appointments and the Groups approach to Board and Executive succession planning can be found on pages 94 and 95.
The Committee also considered progress against the recommendations and priorities from the 2015 Board Effectiveness Evaluation.
I am pleased to report that the changes introduced and actions arising from the review have led to improvements in a number of areas and other Board members find the annual review process extremely valuable and insightful.
Further detail can be found on pages 89 and 90.
Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Committee is to keep the Boards The key activities of the Committee during the year are set out composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence below.
Full details of the Committees responsibilities are set and succession arrangements under review, and to review out in the Committee terms of reference and can be found on the succession plans for the Executive.
The Committee the website at virginmoney.
makes recommendations to the Board to ensure that the During the year the Committee met its key objectives and Groups arrangements are consistent with good corporate carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the governance standards.
The Committees role also extends annual effectiveness review.
to appointments to the Boards of the Groups material subsidiaries, including the Bank.
94 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report Following the 2015 Board Effectiveness Evaluation, the Committee composition, skills Chairman undertook a review of Board tenure, succession andexperience planning and an assessment of the collective technical and To ensure a broad representation of independent views, governance skills required from the Non-Executive Directors including perspectives from each of the Committees, to support the future business strategy.
Two additional membership of the Committee comprises the Chairman, all Independent Non-Executive Directors were appointed to Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Virgin Group the Board as a result of this review.
Further detail is set Nominee Director.
The Chief Executive, the remaining nonout on page 95.
Independent Non-Executive Director Virgin NED and, if The Chairman is responsible for developing a succession plan required, the People Director attend meetings as appropriate.
in relation to the Chief Executive, who is in turn primarily responsible for developing and maintaining a succession plan How the Nomination Committee spent for key leadership positions in the Executive.
The Committee considers the adequacy of such succession arrangements.
itstime in 2016 Details of the appointments to the Board in 2017 are set Board and Executive succession out on page 84.
Approach To support the continued development of our business, the Executive was further strengthened by the The Committee recognises that good succession planning following appointments: contributes to the delivery of the Groups strategy by ensuring the desired mix of skills and experience of Board members Hugh Chater joined the business as Chief Commercial now and in the future.
Just as importantly, internal talent Officer in June 2016: needs to be recognised and nurtured within Executive and Tim Arthur joined the business as Creative Director in Management levels across the Group.
The Groups annual September 2016: and talent and capability reviews and Future Business Leaders Programme allows the Group to identify talent and have the Peter Bole joined the business in November and became right succession plans and development programmes in place CFO and an Executive Director of the Bank Board to ensure the Group creates opportunities for current and in January 2017. future leaders.
Details of their experience is set out on pages 77 and 78.
The Board is well placed to meet the challenges and Process opportunities ahead, and the Committee and the Board are The Committee supports the Chairman in keeping the satisfied that the Executive is staffed appropriately.
The composition of the Board and its Committees under Committee will continue to ensure that succession planning regular review and in leading the appointment process for remains under review.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 95 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 Board succession in practice In late 2015, as a result of the Board succession planning process In parallel, a specification for the second Non-Executive Director referred to on page 94, the Chairman identified the need for two position was agreed with a focus on strong retail banking experience additional Non-Executive Directors.
and financial technical strength, preferably a former Chief Financial Officer CFO, to support Audit Committee Chair succession.
Darren In early 2016 the search for a Non-Executive Director was Pope was identified by the Chairman and Chief Executive as a commenced.
Ridgeway Partners Ridgeway who have no other potential candidate given his strong fit to the specification as former connection with the Group was appointed to support the search.
Ridgeway was appointed to undertake specification for the role was agreed by the Chairman, in conjunction full due diligence, independent benchmarking and referencing on with the Chief Executive and Committee members.
for the position included extensive and recent banking or financial services experience, marketing, technology and digital expertise.
Both individuals then met with Committee members and certain members of the Executive.
Following this comprehensive process Ridgeway analysed the market for possible candidates with a breath which was overseen by the Committee, Eva Eisenschimmel and of diversity, experience and background with candidates considered Darren Pope were appointed by the Board in December 2016 as Nonfrom North America, Asia and other overseas locations as well Executive Directors.
Details of their experience is set out on page 76. as the UK.
During the second half of 2016 a short list of potential candidates met with the Chairman and Chief Executive, following which Eva Eisenschimmel was identified by the Committee as the preferred candidate.
Effectiveness Independence and time commitments In January 2016, the Committee reviewed the findings of the The independence of the Non-Executive Directors, and the 2015 Board Effectiveness Evaluation and agreed the roadmap election or re-election of Directors and their suitability to recommendations and priorities for 2016.
Progress against continue in office, were reviewed.
A rigorous independence the roadmap was reviewed during the year and the Chairman review was undertaken in respect of Norman McLuskie will meet with Dr Tracy Long CBE, the 2015 external facilitator, and Colin Keogh, given both are now in the seventh year in 2017 to discuss progress.
For the 2016 Board Effectiveness Evaluation, the In assessing independence, the Committee did not rely Committee made recommendations to the Board on the solely on the Code criteria but considered whether the Nonprocess and timing of the review.
The key conclusions of Executive Director was demonstrably independent and free the review reported to the Committee in February 2017 of relationships and other circumstances that could affect were that the Board and Committees continue to operate their judgment.
It did this with reference to the individual effectively, although there are opportunities to further performance and conduct in reaching decisions.
It also took improve effectiveness.
Full details of the evaluation and account of any relationships that had been disclosed to the key recommendations are set out on pages 89 and 90.
Based on its assessment for 2016, the Committee is Committee will monitor the Boards progress against the satisfied that, throughout the year, Colin Keogh, Norman agreed roadmap in 2017.
McLuskie, Marilyn Spearing and Geeta Gopalan remained independent as to both character and judgment.
Corporate governance The Virgin Group Nominee Director is not considered to be independent due to his relationship with the Groups The Committee oversaw the implementation of the controlling shareholder, Virgin Group.
The Virgin NED is also responsibilities map and individual Board statements of not considered to be independent since he was appointed to responsibility, required under the Senior Managers and the Board as the representative director of Virgin Enterprises Certification Regime SMCR.
Limited VEL pursuant to the Virgin Money Trade Mark Licence Agreement.
96 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report The Committee reviewed the roles, including capabilities and The Group supports the Parker Review Beyond One by 21 time commitments, of the Chairman, SID, Non-Executive recommendation that FTSE 100 and 250 company boards Directors and Chief Executive, considering amongst other should have at least one ethnically diverse director by 2021 matters, the impact of limits placed by CRD IV on the number and 2024 respectively, and the Company is already compliant of directorships that can be held by the Directors, and found with this requirement.
Please see pages 36 and 37 of the Strategic Report for details The Committee is recommending the re-election of all of the Groups approach to diversity, and inclusion and Directors who served during 2016 and who wish to continue diversity initiatives.
to serve, together with the election of Eva Eisenschimmel and Darren Pope, to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Marilyn Spearing will retire from the Board at the 2017 AGM, having completed her three-year term in January 2017.
Diversity Diversity and inclusion is a strategic priority for the Group.
Glen Moreno TheCommittee and Board recognise the importance of Chair, Nomination Committee diversity in enabling Board effectiveness and improving the 27 February 2017 quality of decision making, and are committed to increasing the diversity of the Board.
During the course of the year, the Board reviewed the Groups performance against the Board approved Diversity Policy which sets out the approach to diversity for each of the main Boards within the Group.
Under the policy, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Groups Boards to ensure it is diverse, and reflects an appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and background.
Board appointments are always based on merit, with candidates being considered against objective criteria.
During 2016, female representation on the Board at 37.5% significantly exceeded the objective of 25% set out in the Board Diversity Policy.
In February 2017, the Committee approved a revised Board Diversity Policy with an objective for a balanced Board with representation of either gender making up no less than 33% one in three of the Board.
In addition, the Group has a stated goal that by 2020 the Boards gender balance should be 50 50 with a 10% tolerance.
Following Darren Pope joining the Board in March 2017 and Marilyn Spearings retirement from the Board in May 2017, female representation will still meet the revised objective of 33%.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 97 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 Audit Committee Report Membership and meetings Meetings attended held in 1 Independent 2016 Committee Chair Norman McLuskie Yes 7 7 Committee members Colin Keogh Yes 7 7 The transition of external auditors from KPMG to  was successfully Marilyn Spearing Yes 7 7 completed with a smooth handover process.
Geeta Gopalan Yes 7 7 2 Norman McLuskie Eva Eisenschimmel Yes N A Chair, Audit Committee 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 Eva Eisenschimmel joined the Committee on 25 January 2017.
Chairmans overview We have continued to focus on the issues relevant to the Groups financial reporting, considering emerging trends, and overseeing the Groups internal control framework to ensure it remains robust and fit for purpose.
In particular, I would highlight the following activities: a successful and smooth auditor transition from KPMG LLP KPMG to  LLP PwC : review and challenge of the key estimates and judgements of Management relevant to the Financial Statements: oversight of the control framework with particular focus on cyber resilience, including review and discussion of internal audit reports and Managements response: oversight of the Internal Audit function, including the work to address the recommendations of the External Quality Assurance assessment carried out by Deloitte: review of emerging guidance and regulation including IFRS9 and the EU Audit Directive and oversight of implementation plans.
During 2016, following the review by the Financial Reporting Council FRC of the Groups 2015 Annual Report and Accounts as part of its normal cycle of reviews, the Group received confirmation from the FRC that it had no queries to raise.
It should be noted that the FRCs role in this review was not to verify the information provided in our Report and Accounts but only to consider compliance with reporting requirements and hence the review is not intended to provide assurance over the Annual Report and Accounts.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Peter Bole as Chief Financial Officer CFO from 1 January 2017 and I look forward to working with him.
I would also like to thank Dave Dyer, following his retirement, for his considerable contribution to the Group during his tenure as CFO.
Committee purpose and responsibilities Committee composition, skills and experience The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and review the The Committee acts independently of Management.
This Groups financial reporting arrangements, the effectiveness ensures that the interests of shareholders are properly of its internal controls and risk management framework, its protected in relation to financial reporting and internal internal and external audit processes and its whistleblowing control.
The Committee now comprises five Independent Nonprocedures.
The Committee reports to the Board on its Executive Directors.
activities and makes recommendations, all of which have been Each Committee member has extensive experience of accepted during the year.
banking and financial services, therefore, as a whole, the The key activities of the Committee are set out below and Committee has recent and relevant competence in the sector full details of the Committees responsibilities are detailed in which the Group operates.
In addition to the Chair, who is in the Committee terms of reference which can be found on a chartered accountant, individual Committee members also the website at virginmoney.
bring specialist knowledge and proficiency which enhance In 2016, the Committee met its objectives and carried out capability and effectiveness, particularly in relation to its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual the oversight of the internal control framework.
98 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report Darren Pope will join the Committee on 1 March 2017 and, In addition to relevant members of the Executive, the Internal following an orderly transition, will take over as Committee Audit Director and external auditors attend all Committee Chair during 2017. meetings.
During the year, the Committee held a number of private sessions with the external audit team without Full biographies of the Committee members can be found on Executives present and with each of the Chief Executive, pages 75 and 76.
CFOand the Internal Audit Director.
How the Audit Committee spent its time in 2016 Financial reporting During 2016, the Committee considered the following key financial issues and judgements in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from Management and the external auditors: Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions Going Concern and Viability The Committee reviewed and challenged the going concern and viability assessment undertaken by Management, which was based on The Board is required to confirm whether it has a reasonable expectation the Groups capital, funding and strategic plans.
The assessment also that the Company and the Group will be able to continue to operate and included consideration of the principal and emerging risks which could meet their liabilities as they fall due for a specified period.
The disclosure impact the performance of the Group, and the liquidity and capital must set out the basis for directors conclusions and explain why the projections over the period.
The Committee advised the Board that it was satisfied with the viability statement and that three years was a suitable period of review.
Further details of the viability assessment can be found on pages 126 and 135.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee spent time reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts and challenged Management on the presentation of financial and The Group must ensure that the financial statements including the non-financial information.
The Committee received an early draft of Annual Report are fair, balanced and understandable.
the Annual Report to allow sufficient time for review and comment.
The Committee considered Managements own assessment of compliance with alternative performance measures guidelines and the fair, balanced and understandable requirements.
The Committee concluded that, based on the information supplied to it and in its judgement, the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable.
Effective interest rate EIR The Committee spent considerable time understanding the judgements taken and EIR methodology applied by Management, Interest earned on loans and receivables is recognised using the EIR including expected future customer behaviours.
Following review and challenge, the Committee agreed that The application of the EIR method of accounting is judgemental and Managements judgement, following review of the latest customer requires Management to make a number of assumptions.
trends, was appropriate and there have been no changes to the EIR accounting policies applied for mortgages and credit cards during 2016.
The disclosures relating to EIR are set out in note 1.10 to the Financial Statements.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 99 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables The Committee considered and challenged the provisioning methodology applied by Management, including the results of Determining the appropriateness of impairment losses is judgemental statistical loan loss models to support the impairment provisions for and requires the Group to make a number of assumptions.
both the secured and unsecured portfolios.
The Committee considered the calibration of model parameters in the light of economic indicators including house price movements, and underlying book performance.
Consideration was also given to the appropriateness and use of post model adjustments.
The Committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions, including Managements judgements, were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 1.10 to the Financial Statements.
Capitalisation and impairment of intangible assets Over the course of 2016 a wide range of change projects were delivered including a number with significant capital spend, in Determining the appropriateness of costs that qualify for recognition particular in relation to digital development, fraud, cyber-crime and as intangible assets requires Management judgement.
Management is investment in new office software for employee workstations.
also required to make ongoing assessments of whether any assets are impaired.
No assets were identified as impaired through reviews for As in prior years, the Committee has considered and is satisfied indicators of impairment.
with the appropriateness of the accounting recognition of these investment costs, including that those costs qualify for recognition as intangible assets in line with the criteria prescribed by accounting standards.
The Committee has also considered Managements reviews for indicators of impairment and is satisfied with the conclusion that no assets require impairment adjustment.
The disclosures relating to the movement in intangible asset balances during the year are set out in note 1.10 to the Financial Statements.
Recoverability of the deferred tax asset The Committee considered the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities in respect of timing differences in the main trading The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets and liabilities in subsidiaries, in particular the forecast taxable profits based on the respect of timing differences in the main trading subsidiaries.
Based on the Groups forecast taxable profit, the losses are expected to The Committee agreed with Managements judgement that the be fully utilised in the near to medium term.
deferred tax assets were appropriately supported by forecast taxable profits, taking into account the Groups long-term financial and strategic plans.
There have been no changes in this approach during the year, and the size of the deferred tax asset continues to reduce as losses are utilised.
The disclosures relating to deferred tax assets are set out in note 1.10 to the Financial Statements.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The Committee spent time understanding and assessing judgements applied and agreed with Managements judgement regarding the The Group uses estimates and judgements in the calculation of fair calculation of fair values, including the use of appropriate market rate values for assets and liabilities where not all inputs to calculations impacts to fair value conditions.
are observable in the market, or where there are factors specific to an individual instrument that impact fair values.
The disclosures relating to fair value are set out in note 1.10 to the Financial Statements the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial Internal control and risk management reporting and risk management: Full details of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process are given the major findings of internal reviews into control within the Corporate Governance Report on pages 91 and weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and Managements 92 and the Risk Management Report on pages 132 to 192. response alongside any control deficiencies identified: Specific matters that the Committee considered during the year included: 100 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report in 2016, this included a focus on the IT control environment Whistleblowing in light of the increased threat from cyber-crime: and The Committee received and considered reports from Internal Audit on the Groups whistleblowing arrangements including helpful preliminary observations from PwC on business summaries of reported cases.
The Committee was satisfied processes and controls.
with the action taken with the reports having been considered The Committee is satisfied that internal controls over and approved by the Boards Whistleblowing champion, the financial reporting and risk management systems were Committee Chair.
appropriately designed and operating effectively during the The Committee also approved a revised Whistleblowing policy period under review.
which complies with the PRA and FCA policy statements on whistleblowing published in October 2015 and which became Internal audit effective during 2016.
In monitoring the activity, role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and its audit programme, the Committee: External audit oversaw the progress against the action plan to address the The Committee oversaw the relationship with the external observations from the independent external assessment auditors and considered the terms of engagement including on the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function carried remuneration, its effectiveness, its continued independence out in 2015 by Deloitte.
The Committee is satisfied and objectivity.
In particular, the Committee oversaw the that significant progress has been made against the transition from KPMG to PwC.
Further detail on the transition agreed action plan: process is set out below.
approved the audit plan and budget and monitored progress The Committee approved the interim and annual audit plan and against it at regular intervals, confirming that appropriate negotiated and agreed the auditors remuneration, reviewed the resources and capability were in place to execute the plan findings of the external auditors and considered Managements effectively, and considered Internal Audit to have sufficient responsiveness to such findings and recommendations.
standing in the Group: The Committee also considered the continued effectiveness considered the regular Internal Audit reports, including of the audit process and the external auditors performance thematic and routine reviews on prudential and regulatory during the 2016 interim results process, including compliance, customer conduct, credit risk, IT and financial technical competence, strategic knowledge, quality controls, discussing major findings and Managements control, communication and reporting through an internal responses: and effectiveness review.
approved the updated Internal Audit Charter.
The Committee acknowledged the additional PwC and KPMG both attended Committee work required during the transition and meetings in the first quarter of 2016 as part supported the development of a detailed plan of a shadowing programme, supported by the Committee which aimed to ensure a robust which did not place undue strain on the business Detailed Shadowing planning professional and collaborative handover process.
during peak work load times, but still achieved the objectives in a timely manner.
Good communication was the key to the Getting ahead Communication Informal discussion and detailed accounting of the issues transition, with frequent meetings between the judgement sessions were held with Management auditors and key personnel to allow timely ahead of Committee meetings to ensure that PwC discussion and knowledge transfer.
Bringing the Involvement of understood the key accounting issues.
auditors up senior team to speed Internal planning sessions were held to help PwC Members of the senior teams from the Group and get up to speed as swiftly and eciently PwC were heavily involved in the transition process which positioned the Group well and allowed PwC as possible.
to feed back key observations at an early stage of the transition process.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 101 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 The Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the auditors determines that the overall fee level for non-audit services performance and recommends their re-appointment by will continue to be monitored by the Committee and should shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
not exceed 70% of the average audit fee over the prior three year period: and External Auditors tenure includes restrictions on the employment of former external auditors staff to further preserve the independence of the Following a formal audit tender process conducted in 2015, external auditors.
shareholders approved the appointment of PwC as external auditors at the AGM held on 4 May 2016 for the year ending In some cases, the external auditors may be selected over 31 December 2016. another service provider for a particular engagement due to its detailed knowledge and understanding of the business.
The Committee is satisfied that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for The total amount paid to the external auditors in 2016 was Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use 1.2 million.
Details of the payments for audit and nonof Competitor Tender Processes and Audit Committee audit services provided in 2016 is shown in note 6 to the Responsibilities Order 2014, during the financial year under Financial Statements.
review and up to the date of this report.
Regulatory change External Audit transition The Committee also monitored emerging regulation and The appointment of new auditors provided an opportunity to legislation, assessed the impact on the business and oversaw benefit from a new perspective.
The Committee oversaw and the development of policies and procedures to comply.
For monitored the transition process, receiving regular updates example, this included work to progress compliance with from Management and PwC during the transition period on IFRS9: specifically in November 2016, the Committee had a progress and key areas of auditor focus.
Further detail on session with the Group finance team and the external auditors the transition process is illustrated in the diagram on the to review and discuss the requirements of IFRS9 and the previous page.
implementation plan to meet the Groups obligations under the revised standard.
The committee considered the findings from the FRCs review of KPMGs audit of the 2015 financial statements.
Auditor independence and remuneration for non-audit services Norman McLuskie Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards Chair, Audit Committee in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the 27 February 2017 external auditors.
A policy refreshed in November 2016 to comply with the EU Audit Directive is in place to regulate the use of the auditors for non-audit services which: details the nature of work that the external auditors may not undertake and sets a limit 25,000 under which permissible non-audit work may be undertaken without prior permission from the Committee.
All other non-audit services are subject to prior approval by the Committee: 102 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Board Risk Committee Report Membership and meetings Meetings attended held in 1 Independent 2016 Committee Chair Colin Keogh Yes 7 7 Committee members Norman McLuskie Yes 7 7 The Committee continues to focus on strong risk management and culture as a fundamental part of achieving Marilyn Spearing Yes 7 7 our strategic objectives for all of our stakeholders.
Geeta Gopalan Yes 7 7 2 Colin Keogh Eva Eisenschimmel Yes N A Chair, Board Risk Committee 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
Chairmans overview During 2016, the Board Risk Committee assisted the Board in addressing all aspects of risk management across the Group, balancing its agenda between existing and emerging risks.
In particular, I would highlight the following activities: continued monitoring of the Groups risk management and governance framework.
This included an ongoing review of the Groups key authority documents, risk limits and policies: increased monitoring of the external economic environment in light of increased uncertainty and changes in the macroeconomic outlook: increased monitoring and oversight as part of contingency planning for the EU referendum and its outcome: continued oversight of the stress and scenario testing undertaken to provide comfort on the Groups ability to mitigate potential risks, including those considered in relation to the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP : continued focus on the Groups asset quality through monitoring performance against the Groups risk appetite: reviewing and monitoring the funding and liquidity risks faced by the Group and ensuring the Group maintains a prudent mix of funding sources including the use of TFS: continued monitoring of ongoing changes in the regulatory environment: reviewing risks relating to the resilience of IT systems and cyber security, which is a key priority of the Group: and continued focus on conduct risk, including the monitoring of outsourcing arrangements and oversight of key strategic programmes.
Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and review the The Committee monitors the Groups risk management Groups compliance with the Boards approved risk appetite, framework, including policies, and methodologies, overseeing risk management framework and risk culture.
proposed changes and any action arising from material breaches.
Details of the Groups approach to risk management This includes carrying out the annual review of risk appetite can be found on pages 132 to 192.
The Committee reports to alongside the strategic plan to reflect the Groups latest the Board on its activities and makes recommendations, all of commercial, economic and regulatory views, and considering which have been accepted during the year.
the statements and risk appetite metrics under each category of identified risk.
The Committee considers the Full details of the Committees responsibilities are set out in Groups approach to risk management alongside regulatory the Committee terms of reference which can be found on our developments and has a key role in setting risk management website at virginmoney.
tone and ensuring that the risk culture is embedded During the year, the Committee met its objectives and carried throughout the Group.
out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 103 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 Committee composition, skills and experience How the Board Risk Committee spent its time in 2016 The Committee now comprises five Independent Non-Executive Directors who have a variety of industry backgrounds, with a Over the course of the year, the Committee considered a wide strong presence in banking and financial services experience.
range of risks facing the Group, both existing and emerging, The Chair is also a member of the Audit Committee.
Darren across all key areas of risk management.
As part of the Pope will join the Committee on 1 March 2017.
Full biographies review, certain risks were identified which required further of Committee members can be found on pages 75 and 76. detailed consideration.
A summary of these matters is set out below and includes the key considerations and conclusions In addition to relevant members of the Executive, the Internal of the Committee.
In respect of the Groups approach to risk Audit Director attends the meetings to ensure that attendees management, the Committee also reviewed the capability, from all three lines of defence are represented.
The external resources, remit and authority levels of the risk function.
The auditors also attend most meetings.
During the year, the Committee concluded that the risk function was adequately Committee held private sessions with the Chief Risk Officer resourced and continued to be sufficiently independent with without other Executives present.
appropriate authority and standing within the Group.
Significant risks considered by the committee Further details can be found in the Risk Overview on pages 44 to 51.
Committee review and conclusions on significant risks Retail Credit risk The Committee monitored retail credit risk performance against the Groups risk appetite metrics and policies.
This included the introduction of additional reports to monitor macroeconomic volatility and impact on customers behaviour pre and post the EU referendum, and in response to the changing macroeconomic outlook.
In response, credit scoring for some segments of new credit card lending was tightened toprotect credit quality.
Additional scenario planning and stress testing was also undertaken to inform the Groups strategic planning.
Market Risk The Committee monitored, reviewed and challenged monthly interest rate risk positions against risk appetite metrics and policies.
The Committee oversaw the implementation of a revised suite of stresses for basis risk and monitors this on a regular basis.
Operational risks The Committee received regular updates across all aspects of operational risk including financial crime, incident management, outsourcing management and security infrastructure.
The Committee continued to oversee the delivery of the Group information security programme and cyber resilience strategy to mitigate the threat of cyber attack.
A variety of reviews and exercises were undertaken to test the resilience of IT and cyber security arrangements, with the Committee reviewing Managements recommendations to enhance systems and procedures and mitigate risks.
This included sessions with Management and risk colleagues to evaluate the current status of systems and processes and identify and prioritise improvement programmes where required.
Work on financial crime prevention capability continued with the Committee providing insight and support to the approach and action plan.
The Committee monitors risks inherent with major outsource providers and received regular updates on their performance and resilience.
Where deficiencies in operation and or performance were identified, the Committee increased the focus to ensure resolution was prioritised.
Conduct risk and compliance The Committee spent a considerable amount of time focusing on conduct risk matters including the procedures and practices of major outsourcing providers to ensure that the required standards are applied.
This included consideration of complaints, regulatory reports and remediation and product governance, supporting the Board in its wider consideration and decision making on conduct matters.
In respect of compliance matters, the Committee received regular detailed updates from Management on regulatory developments and upstream risk, including structural reform, Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL, and capital changes.
The Committee assessed the impact of those developments on the Groups balance sheet, operational processes, systems and controls.
104 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Corporate Governance Report Board Risk Committee Report Committee review and conclusions on significant risks Funding and liquidity risk The Committee reviewed and challenged the current and forecast funding and liquidity positions.
The Committee considered reports on funding sources to ensure a prudent mix was maintained within risk appetite and policy limits.
Balance sheet growth has been supported by RMBS, AT1 and FLS TFS drawdown in 2016.
The Committee increased the monitoring of the external economic environment in light of increased uncertainty and changes in the macroeconomic outlook.
Strategic and financial risk Credit concentration risk is monitored against risk appetite metrics and challenged by the Committee.
The quality of lending and detailed reports on exposures to areas where there is concentration risk were reviewed regularly.
These reviews led to the Committee approving changes to Group policy or risk appetite to reduce exposures in these areas.
Capital The Committee monitored, reviewed and challenged Management reports concerning the Groups capital position.
The Committee considered the quality of the capital base, and the projected capital resources to ensure that the Group complies with current regulatory capital requirements and is well positioned to meet future requirements.
In November 2016, the Group raised a further 230 million of AT1 capital to fund ongoing growth and support the Groups leverage ratio.
The Committee also reviewed the results of the PRA UK Variant Stress Test scenarios published during the year.
In addition, the Committee focused on specific scenarios designed by Management.
This work assisted the Committee in supporting the Boards strategic planning cycle, stress capital plan and risk appetite reviews.
The Committee reviewed and challenged Managements development of scenario planning and stress testing as part of the regulatory capital requirements and preparation of the Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP and ICAAP process.
The Committee concluded that the Groups capital remained above minimum regulatory requirements and within the risk appetite set by the Board.
The Committee noted the new individual capital guidance from the PRA.
Emerging Risks Emerging risks are those which have the potential to Risks arising from the implementation of banking sector increase in significance and affect the performance of the structural reform legislation have also been considered, Group.
Further details can be found in the Risk Overview on ensuring forward planning is undertaken to address pages 44 to 51. anticipated risks.
The Committee oversaw the Groups detailed EU referendum The Committee concluded that the Group has a good contingency planning to ensure that it was well positioned to understanding and oversight of its emerging risk position andis taking appropriate steps to mitigate where possible.
deal with the potential impacts of a vote to leave the EU.
Colin Keogh Chair, Board Risk Committee 27 February 2017
