Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report M A IN T A ININ G HIGH S TA N D A R D S Included in this report LEADERSHIP 59EFFECTIVENESS 68REMUNERATION 73 The Board operates effectively for the The Board ensures an open and The Board sets the tone of the Company with long-term success of the Company.
transparent remuneration policy for the regards to corporate governance and ensures The Board members demonstrate the effective recruitment and retention of the application of the Companys values and correct balance of skills, experience, Board members and Company employees.
It demonstrates the clear division independence and knowledge and are able of responsibilities and the constructive to commit sufficient time to undertake the Remuneration Committee Report 86 challenge and development of strategy.
Directors Remuneration Policy 89 Chairmans Introduction 59 Board Skills and Attributes 68 Our Board of Directors 60 Board Effectiveness Review 68 Our Group Executive 62 Board Appointment and Tenure 69 RELATIONS WITH Board Composition 63 Induction and Ongoing Training 69 Board Responsibilities 63 SHAREHOLDERS 74 Directors and their Other Interests 70 Board Meetings 64 The Board maintains an open dialogue with Board Site Visit 71 shareholders and Board members attend Board Meeting Attendance 64 investor events globally.
Board and Group Executive Meeting Locations for 2011-2016 65 Engagement With Stakeholders During 2016 74 Matters Reserved for the Board 65 ACCOUNTABILITY 72 Board Activities During 2016 65 The Board maintains sound risk management Board Committees 66 and internal control systems and has well-established committees to assist Group Executive 67 it in the undertaking of its duties.
Management Committees 67 The Audit Committee and Auditors 72 Nomination Committee Report 75 Internal Control and Risk Management 72 Audit Committee Report 79 The UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and sets out standards of good practice in relation to matters such as Board composition and effectiveness, the role of Board committees, risk management, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The Code can be obtained from the Financial Reporting Council via its website at frc.
As a listed company, we are required to explain how we have complied with the Code and applied its principles and provisions.
We must also provide an explanation of any instances where we have not.
This Corporate Governance Report, together with the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committee Reports and the Directors Report, details how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code in 2016.
For the period ended 31 December 2016 and to the date of this Annual Report, the Board considers that the Company has complied fully with the Code.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 requires the corporate governance statement to contain certain information required by Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI2008 410.
This information relates to significant interests in the securities of the Company, securities carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company, restrictions on voting rights, rules regarding the appointment and replacement of directors, rules regarding changes to the Companys Articles of Association and the Directors powers in relation to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its shares.
The relevant information can be found within the Directors Report on pages 110 to 113.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 58 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance L E A D E R S HIP Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction As Chairman, I continue to focus on ensuring that the Board delivers prudent and effective leadership in order to discharge its duties responsibly and effectively.
During 2016, the Board remained committed to setting the tone from the top by demonstrating the values and behaviours which we expect our employees to adopt throughout the Group.
We recognise that a robust framework of Corporate Governance procedures and controls is essential to deliver the strategy of the Group and promote the long term success of the Company.
The following Corporate Governance Changes in the membership of the During 2016, John Heasley received an Report, including the Committee Reports Board enable fresh perspectives to be induction following his appointment to and the Directors Report, sets out how we brought to different aspects of the Groups the Board.
Full details can be found on apply these governance standards in governance framework.
We continue to page 69. practice and demonstrate our compliance review the Board composition and have with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
spent considerable time on succession planning to ensure that we continue to UK Corporate Governance Code evolve as a Board, enabling us to further I am pleased to report that the Company enhance our leadership of the Group.
Charles Berry has fully complied with all the principles of Chairman the Code for the period ended 31 December Board inductions 22 February 2017 2016, and from that date to the date of The induction of our new Directors and approval of this Annual Report.
Committee members remains an important focus, and we continue to provide a Changes to the Board comprehensive programme which allows Board and Committee changes during new members to contribute effectively.
The 2016 were as follows: induction programme is tailored according to the background and knowledge of each Jon Stanton was appointed as Chief new Board member.
John Heasley was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 3 October 2016.
Christopher Morgan was appointed as Company Secretary and General Counsel on 1 May 2016.
Andrew Neilson was appointed Interim Company Secretary during the period from December 2015 until May 2016.
Keith Cochrane stepped down as Chief Executive on 30 September 2016.
Dean Jenkins stepped down as Chief Operating Officer on 30 September 2016.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 59
