Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Introduction to the Audit Committee Structure of Report As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our Key Objective 79 report to shareholders in accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Membership 79 Governance Code the Code.
Through this report, I hope we will Responsibilities 79 demonstrate how we have responded to the Codes requirements, Committee Evaluation 80 as well as our commitment, as an Audit Committee, to our Meetings 80 responsibilities under the Code and how we have discharged Main Activities 81 them during the year.
Our Focus for 2016 85 Our Focus for 2017 85 Committee Members Alan Ferguson Chairman Melanie Gee Sir Jim McDonald John Mogford Key Objective Our key objective is to provide effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting.
We do this by focusing on, amongst other things: the adequacy of accounting policies and disclosures, as well as the areas requiring significant estimates or judgements: the performance of both the Internal Audit function and the external auditor: and oversight of the Groups systems of internal control, framework for identification and management of business risks and related assurance activities.
Membership I chair the Committee with the members being Melanie Gee, Sir Jim McDonald and John Mogford, all of whom are independent NonExecutive Directors and have been members of the Committee for the full year and to the date of this report.
The Committee members have, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
They have been selected with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil our responsibilities and in doing so we meet the Code requirement that at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience.
Summary biographies have been presented on pages 60 and 61.
Responsibilities As a Committee, we are responsible for: reviewing the announcements of the Groups financial results, including the Interim Report and Annual Report and Financial Statements: reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices, including critical accounting policies and those judgements and estimates with the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements: advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that the processes underlying the compilation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements are robust and supportive of the assertion reached by the Board that the document, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: advising the Board on the appropriateness of adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and consideration of any material uncertainties which might impact the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: reviewing the process and financial modelling underpinning the Boards Viability Statement, including linkage to the principal risks identified by the Board as having the greatest impact on longer-term viability, key assumptions and debt facility and covenant headroom calculations under stress-test scenarios: overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, covering their appointment, assessment of audit quality, effectiveness and independence, as well as the negotiation and agreement of fees: The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 79 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Responsibilities continued reviewing and approving the remit and annual plan of the Internal Audit function, ensuring its independence and that there are the necessary resources and access to information available in order for it to fulfil its mandate: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems for financial control, financial reporting and risk management, incorporating a review of reports on any significant frauds, misappropriation of assets or unethical behaviour: and oversight of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption AB&C programme and providing input to the Board on ethics compliance.
The Terms of Reference can be found on the Groups website, www.
Committee Evaluation The Committee was subject to an internal self evaluation process in 2016, via the completion of a detailed survey by each Committee member.
This follows a similar self evaluation in 2015 and the triennial process conducted externally by Independent Audit Limited during 2014.
The evaluation concluded that the Committee was performing well.
It receives well-presented papers and good reports from management, external audit and internal audit.
No significant areas of concern were noted however there is more to be done, in conjunction with the Board, in reviewing the matching of our overall assurance structure against our principal risks.
Meetings We met five times during the period and have met twice since the year end.
Each Committee meeting normally takes place prior to a Board meeting, during which I provide a report on our activities.
There is at least one meeting each year when we meet with each of the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors separately, without any executive management present.
This provides us with the opportunity for any issues of concern to be raised by, or with, the auditors.
We have the ability to call on Group employees to assist in our work and to obtain any information required from Executive Directors in order to carry out our roles and duties.
We are also able to obtain outside legal or independent professional advice if required.
The table below details the Board members and members of senior management who were invited to attend meetings as appropriate during the calendar year.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP EY attended the meetings as auditors to the Group to March 2016.
Following the appointment of  LLP PwC on 28 April 2016, they subsequently attended the meetings as auditors to the Group by invitation.
Committee membership in 2016 Appointed to the Committee Chairman Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 Committee Melanie Gee 4 May 2011 Sir Jim McDonald 1 January 2015 John Mogford 1 August 2008 Other attendees by invitation Chairman Charles Berry Chief Executive Keith Cochrane to Sep 16 Finance Director to Sept 16 Jon Stanton Chief Executive Officer from Oct 16 Jon Stanton Chief Financial Officer John Heasley from Oct 16 Company Secretary and General Counsel Christopher Morgan Attends as Secretary to the Committee Group Financial Controller Lindsay Dixon to Mar 16 Group Financial Controller Steven Wallace from Apr 16 Head of Internal Audit David Kyles The Committee members attendance at the meetings held during the calendar year is summarised in the table below.
Percentage of meetings Name Committee attendance in 2016 attended 19 January 20 January 17 February 5 April 22 July 19 October Alan Ferguson Chairman 100% Melanie Gee 100% Sir Jim McDonald 100% John Mogford 100% The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 80 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Main Activities Over the course of the period since the last Annual Report, our work was focused in the following areas: i financial reporting: ii internal control and risk management: iii internal audit: and iv external audit.
The following sections provide more detail on our specific items of focus under each of these headings, explaining the work we, as a Committee, have undertaken and the results of that work.
i Financial Reporting Our principal responsibility in this area is the review and challenge of the actions and judgements of management in relation to the Interim and Annual Financial Statements before submission to the Board, paying particular attention to: critical accounting policies and practices, and any changes therein: decisions requiring significant judgements and estimates, or where there has been discussion with the external auditor: the existence of any errors, adjusted or unadjusted, resulting from the audit: the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with accounting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements, including an assessment of adoption of the going concern basis of accounting which includes a review of the process and financial modelling underpinning the Groups Viability Statement: and the processes surrounding the compilation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements with regard to presenting a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
We received formal reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the external auditor, summarising the main discussion points for both the half year in our July 2016 meeting and full year reporting during our January and February 2017 meetings.
The financial reporting matters discussed in the current year are summarised below.
Current Period Matters 1 Exceptional Items Restructuring Costs note 5 The Committees work in respect of restructuring costs has covered full discussion of the restructuring programmes, related charges and cash flows.
These can be found in the Financial Review on page 24.
The members of the Audit Committee are party to discussions at Board level in relation to major restructuring activities but we have also received detailed reporting from the Chief Financial Officer covering the following aspects: i costs by initiative, by division: ii accounting treatment adopted in relation to recognition of provisions and impairments: and iii disclosure of the amounts and related narrative reporting.
Work of a similar nature to that performed in 2014 and 2015 has been completed, which focused on probing management to understand and confirm that the requirements of IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets have been met.
Furthermore, we considered the nature of these costs in light of the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items.
We also received confirmation from PwC that managements treatment was acceptable.
The Committee agrees with the accounting treatment and disclosure of these items in the 2016 Annual Report.
2 Exceptional Items China Operations The Committee has discussed in detail with management the warranty, associated inventory and contract liabilities and other unprovided liabilities identified in the China business during the second half of the year.
A report was received from management which provided details of the nature and timing of the specific issues which gave rise to a number of identified liabilities, which total 17m refer to note 5.
Furthermore, we considered the impact of this matter on the general control environment and the appropriateness of the disclosure of these matters.
The effect of this is considered further in the Corporate Governance Report on page 72.
We confirm our agreement with the accounting treatment and disclosure adopted.
Reporting on this area has also been received from PwC.
3 Discontinued Operations and Related Exceptional Items We discussed and reviewed with management and the external auditors the items included within discontinued operations.
In terms of the disposals we have reviewed the basis for the loss and the assumptions supporting the related contingent consideration asset.
We confirmed that the treatment of both the disposal of non-core renewable assets within Flow Control and the reassessment of liabilities relating to previous disposals as exceptional items is appropriate and that the disclosures provided are in line with IFRS 5.
We have reviewed the movements in significant contingent consideration balances, and confirm that the changes in estimate are appropriate.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 81 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Recurring Agenda Items 1 Impairment Review of Intangible Assets notes 5 and 14 At least once every year, as required, management undertakes a detailed, formal impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets and reports to the Audit Committee.
The most significant judgements are in setting the assumptions underpinning the calculation of the value in use of the Cash Generating Units CGUs, specifically the achievability of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
We challenged management on the process undergone to revise the CGUs from 11 to 4 during the year following the introduction of Flow Control and the organisational changes made in Oil & Gas North America.
This included questioning the evidence identified by management in support of the changes made.
We agreed that the requirements of IAS 36, including those in respect of the management of cash flows, support the level at which the CGUs are identified and reported on and that the level of disclosure in the financial statements is appropriate.
Consideration has been given to the long-term growth rates and discount rates used in the cash flow models for all the CGUs.
Business plans and budgets were Board approved and underpin the cash flow forecasts.
In the current year, and as a direct result of the prolonged downturn facing oil and gas markets, specific focus has been given to the basis of the assumptions underpinning the business plans of the Oil & Gas North America CGU.
Due to the low level of headroom in this CGU, we have also considered the sensitivity analysis supplied by management and the corresponding disclosures.
We are satisfied that the impairment analysis supports the carrying value of the underlying assets in each revised CGU, that this conclusion would not have been different under the old CGU structure.
We have reviewed the relevant disclosures in the financial statements and the related narrative provided in note 14.
2 Accounting for Pensions note 24 We examined the disclosures and were satisfied.
In reaching this conclusion, we challenged management on the key assumptions underpinning the valuation, taking assurance from the fact that external advice had been taken by the Company.
3 Tax Charge and Provisioning note 7 The Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Chief Financial Officer every six months, which covers the following key areas: i status of ongoing enquiries and tax audits with local tax authorities: ii the Groups effective tax rate for the current year: and iii the level of provisioning for known and potential liabilities, including significant movements on the prior period.
In addition, the Committee takes comfort from the presentation to the main Board on tax strategy and risk, given by the Group Head of Tax, every year.
Based on the work we have undertaken, we are satisfied that the position presented in these financial statements, including the disclosures, is appropriate.
4 Accounting for Provisions note 22 Total provisions on the Group Balance Sheet are 143m 2015: 117m at the end of the period with the breakdown by category presented in note 22.
The focus of the Audit Committee was on the restructuring provision including the linkage to the exceptional charges recorded in the Income Statement, and the employee-related provision, specifically the element in respect of US asbestos-related claims.
The Committees work in relation to exceptional items is discussed in a previous section of this report.
With regard to the US asbestos-related provision, our review and challenge was centred on gaining an understanding of: i the claims and settlement assumptions that underpin the discounted cash flow model and their relation to recent historic experience: ii the period over which the liability can be reasonably estimated: iii the position with regard to insurance cover available: and iv the adequacy and transparency of the disclosures in note 22.
As explained in the Financial Review on page 29, the actual experience of the number and value of settlements over the year has been broadly in line with the assumptions underpinning the liability assessment.
We have reviewed managements decision to extend the period of claims included within the estimated liability from 5 to 10 years, based on the growing claims history.
We have also challenged management on the assumptions underpinning the liability assessment and agree that, given the inherent uncertainty associated with estimating future costs in respect of asbestos-related diseases, the current approach is appropriate, as is recording a matching receivable on the basis of the insurance asset.
With regard to provisions in overall terms, we have examined the other key movements between the opening and closing provision balances and challenged management on the commercial drivers which caused them.
We have also examined, through discussion and updates provided by the Company Secretary and General Counsel where it is relevant to do so based on the nature of the provision, the appropriateness of the closing positions.
Nothing arose from our work that gave the Committee any concern.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 82 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance 5 Valuation of Inventory note 16 Given the continuing market pressures experienced during 2016 within both the Minerals and Oil & Gas divisions, the Committee has retained valuation of inventory as a judgement for specific consideration.
Reporting has been received from management on the business drivers behind movements in both gross inventory and the related slow moving and obsolete provision.
Specific consideration was given to a review of the accuracy of inventory provisioning, with the five most significant inventory balances reviewed and presented to the Committee.
Based on the information provided, the Committee concluded that management action had been effective and that the level of provisioning appeared adequate.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable The Audit Committee has reviewed the contents of this years Annual Report and Financial Statements and the process that has been followed in the preparation of the document.
With regard to the latter, the Committee received a report from management summarising the detailed approach that had been taken which covered, but was not limited to, the following: involvement of a cross section of management across the organisation, including the Group Executive, Divisional Finance Directors, Group Communications, Group Finance including Group Tax and Group Treasury and Company Secretariat: input and advice from appropriate external advisers, including the Companys brokers and PR agency: use of available disclosure checklists for both Corporate Governance and financial statement reporting: regular research to identify emerging practice and guidance from relevant regulatory bodies: regular weekly meetings from December to February inclusive involving the key contributors to the document, during which specific consideration was given to the fair, balanced and understandable assertion: and use of two cold readers: one an employee and member of the Senior Management Group and the other an external, independent proof reader.
The successful completion of this work has been reported to the Board.
Viability Statement The remit of the Committee includes a review of the work undertaken by management to underpin the Groups Viability Statement.
The ultimate responsibility for the determination of the period of assessment, and for the review and approval of the principal risks taken into consideration in assessing the Groups viability, rests with the Board.
Our remit, as delegated by the Board, was to review the underlying processes and key assumptions and report to the Board accordingly.
We fulfilled our responsibilities in this area through the review and discussion of reporting received from management, which covered the following areas: summary of the underlying principles as agreed by the Board: overview of the construct of the financial model and base case data underpinning the sensitivity and stress-test scenarios: results of financial modelling which reflected the crystallisation of those principal risks identified by the Board as having the greatest potential impact on the Groups viability, both individually and when taken together in a severe but plausible stress-test scenario: extent of mitigating actions included in the financial modelling, relative to the population of such actions that had been identified as within the control of management and the Board: covenant calculations and assessment of facility headroom in each of the downside and stress-test scenarios: and rationale in support of the long-term viability of the Group.
The Groups Viability Statement is reported on page 46, within the section on Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
ii Internal Control and Risk Management Overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control frameworks, and strategic decisions within the Group, rests with the Board.
Our role with regard to risk management has been delegated by the Board and is to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk and internal control frameworks.
In this regard, the Committee considered the issues arising from the exceptional item relating to China during 2016, details of which are noted above.
Further details are also provided in the Corporate Governance Report on page 72.
During the year, we reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its internal control environment.
Our work in this area was supported by reporting from the Head of Internal Audit on the results of the programme of internal audit visits undertaken: the overall assessment of the internal control environment: and in addition, reporting, either verbal or written, from senior management covering any investigations into known or suspected fraudulent activities, including assertions of such via the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, is reviewed.
The Committee also receives regular reporting on the Groups compliance related activities from the Company Secretary and General Counsel and Head of Internal Audit.
This includes reviewing compliance with the Groups Ethics Hotline programme which provides a mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the conduct of the Group or its employees to report those concerns.
The Committee ensures that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular interest in any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 83 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued ii Internal Control and Risk Management continued Since the last Annual Report and Financial Statements, there have been presentations from two of the three Divisional Finance Directors DFDs, which included a review of the divisional risk dashboards, the significant findings from the internal audit visits and the Compliance Scorecard process over the last 12 months, as well as an overview of their divisional finance teams.
Focus is given to the strength and depth of the finance teams capability, the quality and efficiency of responses to findings of internal audit visits including whether learning has been shared more widely across the Group to mitigate the risk of recurrence and share good practices and the quality of the discussion around divisional risk dashboards.
The Compliance Scorecard is a control mechanism whereby each operating company undertakes a self-assessment every six months of their compliance with Group policies and procedures, including key internal controls across a range of categories including finance, Anti-Bribery & Corruption, tax, treasury, Trade & Customs, HR, IT and legal.
As far as the elements relating to finance are concerned, these cover but are not limited to management accounts and financial reporting, balance sheet controls, employee costs and other financial policies.
Operating companies are required to retain evidence of their testing in support of their self-assessment responses.
Internal audit then has responsibility for confirming the self-assessment during planned visits.
Any significant variances are reported to local, divisional and Group management.
Any companies reporting lower levels of compliance are required to prepare improvement plans to demonstrate how they will improve over a reasonable period of time.
The overall compliance scores as a percentage are tracked over time and reported to the Audit Committee twice a year with the Committee paying particular attention to the variances between self-assessed and internal audit assessed scores as well as trends and the performance of newly acquired companies.
iii Internal Audit One of the main duties of the Committee is to review the annual Internal Audit programme and ensure that the Internal Audit function is adequately resourced, effective which includes assessing the independence of the function and has appropriate standing within the Company.
As far as the scope of the Internal Audit programme is concerned, the aim is to carry out visits to each operating company in the Group on a periodic, rotational basis.
A risk based approach is taken when deciding which businesses to audit and the scope of each audit.
The factors considered are, amongst other things, the volatility of end markets, critical system or senior management changes in the period, financial results, the timing of the most recent internal audit visit and any other assurance reviews undertaken, and whether the business is a recent acquisition.
In addition, the emergence of any common themes or trends in the findings of recent internal audits or compliance scorecard submissions see previous section is taken into consideration.
As part of the annual plan, Anti-Bribery & Corruption reviews are undertaken, focusing on areas such as relationships with agents, accounting for employee expenses and corporate hospitality gifts.
The Internal Audit Plan is reviewed in detail and approved by the Committee each year.
To ensure that internal audit remains focused on providing effective assurance to the Group Executive, the Audit Committee and Board the scope and approach was reviewed during the year.
This resulted in developing more targeted financial assurance approaches and placing greater emphasis on IT risks.
It also considered the wider sources of assurance for key risk areas.
These developments have been reflected in the internal audit plan for 2017.
Twice annually the Head of Internal Audit reports on audit activities, progress against the plan and the results of audit visits with particular focus on high priority findings and the action plans, including management responses, to address these areas.
Particular attention was given to the results of the China internal audit which was reported to the Committee in October.
Private discussions between myself and the Head of Internal Audit are held during the year and once a year with the full Committee.
I also receive copies of all internal audit reports issued during the year.
iv External Audit Auditor Choice, Tenure, Tendering and Reappointment The previously disclosed audit tender process was completed during the first quarter of the year.
The final stages of the process included the submission of proposals from the participating firms with each formally presenting their proposition to the Tender Panel which was made up of all members of the Committee, the Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
Following the presentations, and based on a number of decision-making criteria including i audit quality and approach to communication with the business at all levels and the Committee: ii proposed service levels: iii the capability and competence of the audit partners, both at Head Office and at Divisional level: and iv the audit approach of the firm and its focus on internal quality control procedures: the Tender Panel, supported by all members of the Audit Committee, proposed that PwC be appointed as the Groups auditors.
This was approved by the Board, and ratified at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016.
The Company confirms that it complied with the provision of the Competition and Market Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Auditor Effectiveness The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
PwC and previously EY present their detailed audit plan to the Committee each year identifying their assessment of these key risks.
For the current period, the significant risks identified were the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, accounting for exceptional items, the carrying value of inventory, accounting for disposals, tax positions and accounting for asbestos-related claims.
In addition, auditing standards require review of the potential for management override of controls and fraud in revenue recognition.
In respect of this area, the Committee took comfort from the work of the auditors, where they have confirmed that there was nothing that had to be brought to our attention.
In addition, the Committee derived assurance from the work of Internal Audit and the Compliance Scorecard process.
Our work in each of the other risk areas identified by PwC has been covered in detail earlier in this report.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 84 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Our assessment of the effectiveness and quality of the audit process in addressing these matters is formed by, amongst other things, the quality of their annual plan, a review of the reporting from the auditors to the Committee and also by seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process.
Overall management were satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be satisfactory.
The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditor each year to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management being present.
Matters typically discussed include the auditors assessment of business risks and management activity thereon, the transparency and openness of interactions with management, confirmation that there has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management and how they have exercised professional scepticism.
I also meet with the lead audit partner outside the formal committee process as necessary throughout the year.
Based on the input from management and discussions we have had with PwC and key finance individuals we are of the view that the quality of the audit process is satisfactory.
Independence Policy and Non-Audit Services The Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment and role of the auditor.
This includes keeping under review the auditors independence by issuing guidelines on any non-audit services that are to be provided by them.
In addition, a formal policy exists which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups Financial Statements and this was reviewed and updated in the year.
The policy makes it clear that only certain types of service are permitted to be carried out by the auditors.
All permitted non-audit services require the approval of the Chief Financial Officer and, where the expected cost of the service is in excess of 75,000, the approval of myself, the Audit Committee Chairman.
If non-audit fees approach 0.5m during a calendar year then the Committee will consider imposing additional restrictions on non-audit services.
The auditors confirm their independence at least annually.
Fees payable to PwC in respect of audit and assurance services for 2016 of 2.2m 2015 in respect of EY: 1.8m were approved by the Committee after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed and after being satisfied by PwC that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
Non-audit fee work conducted by PwC for assurance services, from the date of their appointment as auditors, amounted to 0.4m, which predominately related to activities that were in progress when PwC were appointed as auditors, such as HR support around global mobility.
The bulk of this work has now been completed, and any future such work has been transitioned to other providers.
The spend of 0.4m represented 15% of the total fees, including audit fees, and 18% of audit fees.
We are of the view that the level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external auditors.
Having considered the relationship with PwC, their qualifications, expertise, resources and effectiveness, the Committee concluded that they remained independent and effective for the purposes of the 2016 year end.
As a result, the Committee recommended to the Board that they should be reappointed as auditors at the next AGM.
Our Focus for 2016 In last years report we said that, in addition to our routine business, we would ensure a successful completion of the external audit tender process and handover, respond to the changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code and Guidance on Audit Committees and ensure a seamless transition for our then new Head of Internal Audit.
Our work during the year confirms that we have been successful in this regard.
PwC have performed well and have met the initial expectations we had when we selected them.
The Head of Internal Audit has also settled in well and the handover was effective.
In terms of governance we have responded appropriately to the changes to the Code.
Our Focus for 2017 In addition to our routine business in 2017 we will increase our focus on three areas.
Firstly following the exceptional item arising from issues in China we will review with management what we can do to minimise the risk of a reoccurrence of such exposures in the future.
Secondly we will increase our focus on the IT control environment given that the rollout of SAP in Minerals is underway following initial implementations during 2016.
Finally in conjunction with the Board we will increase our focus on the matching of our overall assurance structure against our principal risks.
Alan Ferguson On behalf of the Audit Committee 22 February 2017 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 85
