Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report Introduction to the Nomination Committee Structure of Report Dear Shareholder Role of Nomination Committee 75 I am pleased to introduce our Nomination Committee Terms of Reference 75 report for 2016.
It has been a busy year for the Nomination Membership and Attendance 75 Committee, with the appointment of our new Chief Meetings 76 Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
You can find Main Activities of the details of the recruitment process undertaken on page 77.
Committee During 2016 76 This report explains the Committees focus and activities Areas of Focus for 2017 18 76 during the year, and also highlights the Committees key Board Composition and Skills 76 priorities for 2017 18.
All relevant provisions of the UK Board Appointments 76 Corporate Governance Code continue to be met.
Committee Effectiveness 77 Succession Planning and Talent Management 77 Committee Members Board Diversity 78 Charles Berry Chairman Melanie Gee Rick Menell John Mogford Role of Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board: for reviewing Director and senior management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional or replacement Directors: and for making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
Terms of Reference The Terms of Reference of the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then approved by the Board.
The Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website at www.
Membership and Attendance The Nomination Committee is currently made up of three independent Non-Executive Directors and me as Chairman.
Senior members of management and advisers are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Keith Cochrane retired from the Committee in September 2016.
There were five scheduled meetings held during the year and two sub-committee meetings.
Details of the attendance of the members of the Committee for the period ended 31 December 2016 are contained in the table overleaf.
I do not chair Committee meetings when the matters under consideration relate to me or my position.
Similarly, should a matter under discussion relate to any of the other Committee members, they would excuse themselves from the meeting.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 75 Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report continued Meetings The table below details the Board members and members of senior management who were invited to attend meetings as appropriate during the calendar year.
Committee membership in 2016 Appointed to the Committee Chair Charles Berry 1 January 2014 Committee Melanie Gee 18 June 2015 Rick Menell 14 June 2012 John Mogford 21 January 2014 1 Keith Cochrane 2 November 2009 Other attendees by invitation Chief Executive Officer Jon Stanton Secretary Andrew Neilson January April 2016 Christopher Morgan Percentage of meetings Name Committee attendance in 2016 attended 23 February 28 April 22 July 6 September 13 December Charles Berry 100% Melanie Gee 100% Rick Menell 100% John Mogford 100% 1 Keith Cochrane 50% Note 1.
Keith Cochrane stepped down from the Committee on 30 September 2016.
Main Activities of the Committee During 2016 The appointment of your Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary and General Counsel.
A review of Board composition and Non-Executive Director rotation.
An assessment of Board skills including a gap analysis.
A review of the Committees Terms of Reference.
Undertaking an Internal Board Evaluation Review.
Areas of Focus for 2017 18 Continuing to ensure Board, senior management and Group-wide succession planning is aligned to both strategy and culture.
Further development of the leadership and talent framework and pipeline.
Development of the diversity initiatives across the wider Group.
Reviewing the findings of the Groups employee engagement survey.
Facilitating an external Board Evaluation Review.
Board Composition and Skills The Nomination Committee considers that the Board consists of individuals with the right balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge to provide strong and effective leadership of the Group.
The Board consists of the Chairman, six Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors, who together bring a diverse and complementary range of backgrounds, personal attributes and experience.
The Committee reviews the tenure of individual Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis looking at length of service, experience, independence, contribution and skills.
Details on the Board skills matrix can be found on page 68.
Board Appointments You can find details of the recruitment process that the Nomination Committee led in the appointment of your Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer on page 77.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 76 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Appointment of Chief Executive Officer Jon Stanton The Committee was responsible for leading the process in appointing a new Chief Executive Officer.
External search advisers The Zygos Partnership Limited were engaged in the process and assisted the Nomination Committee.
Elisabeth Marx Associates were also engaged in the process to enable both the preferred candidate and the Company to confirm the fit of personal profile and role.
The Committee recommended to the Board that Jon Stanton be appointed Chief Executive Officer with effect from 1 October 2016.
Keith Cochrane stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016 but remained employed until 31 December 2016.
Further information on Keith Cochranes termination and remuneration arrangements can be found on page 99 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Appointment of Chief Financial Officer John Heasley The recruitment process was overseen by the Committee with the incoming Chief Executive Officer taking the lead in the candidate assessment again supported by The Zygos Partnership Limited.
The Committee conducted final stage interviews and the preferred candidate met with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee recommended to the Board that John Heasley be appointed Chief Financial Officer.
Appointment of Company Secretary Christopher Morgan External search advisers Spencer Stuart were engaged to identify a successor to Keith Ruddock, who retired from the Company on 31 December 2015.
Andrew Neilson, Director of Strategy and Corporate Affairs, was appointed Interim Company Secretary from 18 December 2015 to 1 May 2016.
Christopher Morgan who was Interim General Counsel was appointed Company Secretary and General Counsel on 1 May 2016.
The Zygos Partnership Limited, Elisabeth Marx Associates and Spencer Stuart have no other connection with the company and have signed up to the voluntary code of appointment to the board of conduct on matters such as diversity for executive search firms.
During 2016, The Zygos Partnership Limited and Elisabeth Marx Associates provided no other services to the Company.
Independence and Re-Election to the Board The Nomination Committee reviewed and confirmed the independence of all Non-Executive Directors.
The continued service of John Mogford as a Director was specifically reviewed in light of his length of service, as noted in the Corporate Governance Report on page 69.
The Committee concluded that Johns sector and management experience were of importance to the Company at this time and recommended that his term should be extended for a further year subject to re-election by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
This years review also enabled the Committee to confirm its support for the election of John Heasley, and for the re-election of all other members of the Board, at the Companys forthcoming 2017 AGM.
The Directors biographies can be found on pages 60 and 61 and a note of their skills can be found on page 68.
Processes are in place to identify any business relationships held by Non-Executive Directors or additional directorships or significant links with other Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies which may be of relevance in determining their independence.
The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Committee Effectiveness The Committees performance was reviewed during the year through the internal Board and Committee evaluation.
This was facilitated by the Company Secretary with assistance from Independent Audit Limited, by way of a confidential on-line questionnaire.
The Board and Committee evaluation reports were presented to the Committee in January 2017.
The review found that the positive trend of improvement had continued, which was largely attributable to the quality of information now being received by the Committee, and more detailed discussions around the areas of succession planning, leadership, talent management and diversity.
Details of the Board Effectiveness Review can be found on page 68.
Succession Planning and Talent Management During the year the Committee continued to spend significant time and focus on succession planning not only at both Board and Group Executive level, but across the wider Group.
The Nomination Committee takes an active interest in talent management across the Group and this year the Committee received its annual review from the Chief People Officer providing information on how the pipeline of talent was being managed and how this worked to support succession planning at senior levels.
Some of the current initiatives are noted below.
Mentoring programme is now developed and underway.
A more robust succession planning process is in place.
The Group Executive team specifically discusses people and talent management at each monthly meeting.
High potential employee identification tool launched.
The quality of conversations in performance development continues to improve.
Succession planning and Board structure will remain a priority for the Committee during 2017.
No changes were recommended to the composition of the Nomination Committee.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 77 Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report continued Succession Planning and Talent Management continued The annual leadership review is an embedded process within each of our operating companies and the results are consolidated and analysed by the divisional HR Directors and discussed with the Chief People Officer.
Succession risks, critical roles and scarce skills are identified through this process.
The talent strategy is reviewed each year to address this maturing agenda.
The Committee recognises the importance of preparing a pipeline of high-quality internal talent ready for senior management and Board positions in a range of roles.
During the year, the Committee was updated on the succession plans for all senior management across the Group.
Where there had been changes to the individuals in key critical roles, or new roles were established, the Committee was updated on the plans and process for making future appointments to these roles.
The Board recognises that significant advantage is to be gained by identifying and developing our own people as well as bringing in skills from outside the organisation.
We continue to strengthen our internal retention strategies to include career planning, personal development plans, coaching and secondments.
Board Diversity The considerations to be taken into account in each appointment to the Board are stipulated in the Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee.
Specifically, the Nomination Committee must consider candidates on merit against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, in identifying and recommending candidates.
The Nomination Committee recommends appointments to the Board based on the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, on the merits and capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to devote to the role in order to promote the success of the Company.
The Board acknowledges the benefits that a diverse pool of talent can bring to a boardroom.
Among other things, a diverse Board encompasses diversity of experience, social background, education and training, life skills, personal attributes, as well as differences in age, nationality, race and gender.
I am pleased to serve on the steering group of the Hampton-Alexander Review which aims to improve diversity in FTSE 350 companies.
We have committed to ensuring that one third of the Board, one third of the Group Executive Committee members and their direct reports are female by 2020.
The current levels are 22%, 14% and 20% respectively.
The Nomination Committee also oversees the Diversity and Inclusion initiatives across the wider Group.
You can read more about Diversity and Inclusion on page 47 where it details some actions that have been taken on Group wide diversity and inclusion initiatives.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 78
