CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance E. 1.1 Dialogue with shareholders The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board believes that The Code indicates that the chairman should discuss the Company has been compliant with the Code governance and strategy with major shareholders.
The throughout the 52 weeks ended 24 July 2016, chairman has had many discussions with shareholders except as described below.
since the companys flotation in 1992, although corporate governance has rarely been raised.
1.1 Non-executive director independence majority of discussions with major shareholders now takes place among the CEO, finance director and Elizabeth McMeikan has served more than 10 years on shareholders.
The chairman is available for discussion the board and so may not be considered independent with major shareholders, when requested.
The board considers that her performance as a non-executive director continues to A full version of the Code is available on the official be effective.
She contributes significantly as a director website of the Financial Reporting Council: through her individual skills, considerable knowledge www.
uk and experience of the Company.
She also continues to demonstrate strong independence in the manner in Directors conflicts of interest which she discharges her responsibilities as a director.
The board expects the directors to declare any Consequently, the board has concluded that, conflicts of interest and does not believe that any despite her length of tenure, there is no association material conflicts of interest exist.
with management which could compromise her independence.
The board of directors The board comprises the following members: B.
4.2 Development Tim Martin, chairman John Hutson, chief executive officer The chairman does not formally sit down with individual Ben Whitley, finance director directors and identify specific training and development Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director needs for them.
The chairman and executive directors Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director hold a series of weekly meetings, with head-office and Debra van Gene, non-executive director pub managers, to try to identify areas of improvement Sir Richard Beckett, non-executive director for the business.
Minutes are taken of these meetings and action points identified for a range of participants.
The board considers each of Elizabeth McMeikan, In the opinion of the board, this process is effective Debra van Gene and Sir Richard Beckett in identifying problems and solutions and assists in to be independent.
training and developing directors on an informal, yet effective, basis.
Biographies of all non-executive and executive directors are provided on page 51 and can be viewed B.
6.2 External board evaluation on the Companys website: www.
com A requirement of corporate governance is a The chairman regularly meets the non-executive recommendation for a third party to evaluate the directors and evaluates the performance of the board, functioning of the board.
Delegation of a key task of the its committees and its individual directors.
chairman and of the directors of the board itself to a third party, often with little or no connection with the It is not advantageous, in a company like Wetherspoon, Companys business and with a very limited knowledge for there to be high barriers or exaggerated distinctions of the directors, may be a dangerous step for a board between the role of chairman and that of chief to take.
It is the function of the board itself to evaluate executive officer.
However, some general distinctions its own performance and the performance is most are outlined overleaf.
evident from the results of the underlying business.
For this reason, it is believed to be best for the Company to continue with its current system of self-evaluation.
C. 3.1 Financial experience The code requires that at least one member of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Following the resignation of Mark Reckitt, the nominations committee is currently in the process of recruiting a replacement, who would provide the necessary experience to the audit committee on an ongoing basis.
64 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans responsibility Chief executive officers responsibility The chairman is responsible for the smooth running of The chief executive officer is responsible for the the board and ensuring that all directors are fully smooth daily running of the business informed of matters relevant to their roles Delegated responsibility of authority from the Company Developing and maintaining effective management to exchange contracts for new pubs and to sign all controls, planning and performance measurements contracts with suppliers Providing support, advice and feedback to the Maintaining and developing an effective chief executive officer organisational structure Supporting the Companys strategy and encouraging the External and internal communications, in conjunction chief executive officer with development of that strategy with the chairman, on any issues facing the Company Chairing general meetings, board meetings, Implementing and monitoring compliance operational meetings and agreeing on board agendas and with board policies ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of agenda items Management of the chief executive officers contract, Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board appraisal and remuneration, by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Providing support to executive directors and Recruiting and managing senior managers in the business senior managers of the Company Helping to provide the ethos and vision of the Company, Developing and maintaining effective risk-management after discussions and debates with employees of all levels, and regulatory controls customers, shareholders and including organisations such as CAMRA Helping to provide information on customers and Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders employees views by calling on pubs and investors Helping to make directors aware of shareholders concerns Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the Companys strategy Helping to ensure that a culture of openness and debate exists in the Company Ensuring compliance with the London Stock Exchange and legal and regulatory requirements, in consultation with the board and the Companys external advisers The board has several established committees as set out below.
The board met nine times during the year ending 24 July 2016: attendance of the directors and non-executives, where appropriate, is shown below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held in the year 9 4 6 1 8 N A 1 N A Tim Martin 9 N A N A N A John Hutson 8 4 1 N A Su Cacioppo 8 4 6 Elizabeth McMeikan 7 3 6 1 Debra van Gene Sir Richard Beckett 8 3 6 1 Mark Reckitt 7 3 5 1 Nigel Connor 8 4 1 N A Ben Whitley 9 4 1 N A J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matters reserved for the board The committees primary role is to assist the board in the provision of effective governance over the The following matters are reserved for the board: Companys financial reporting, risk management and internal control and, in particular, it performs the Board and management following activities: Structure and senior management responsibilities Assumes direct responsibility for the appointment, Nomination of directors Appointment and removal of compensation, resignation and dismissal of the chairman and company secretary external auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness Strategic matters Reviews the independence of the external auditors, Strategic, financing or adoption of including consideration of the level of non-audit work new business plans, in respect of any carried out by them material aspect of the Company Reviews the scope and nature of the work Business control to be performed by the external auditors, Agreement of code of ethics and before audit commences business practice Reviews the half-year and annual Internal audit financial statements Authority limits for heads of department Ensures compliance with accounting standards and monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Operating budgets Approval of a budget for investments formal announcements relating to the financial and capital projects performance of the Company and supports the board in Changes in major supply contracts its responsibility to ensure that the annual financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable Finance Reviews the internal audit plan, which is updated to Raising new capital and confirmation reflect the changing needs of the business and the of major facilities concerns of management and the audit committee The entry into finance leases Specific risk-management policies, including Reviews and raises questions on all internal audit insurance, hedging and borrowing limits reports and requests management to adjust the Final approval of annual and interim accounts prioritisation of mitigating actions, as needed.
Areas and accounting policies reviewed this year included processes supporting the Appointment of external auditors operation of the distribution centres, management of cash, payroll and expense processes, capital Legal matters allowances, accounts payable, inventory, software Consideration of regular reports on material issues relating to any litigation licences, reporting systems and product quality affecting the Company Reviews, with the support of specialists as required, Institution of legal proceedings, controls over access to the IT systems used around the where costs exceed certain values business and agrees with management on the timing of any mitigating actions to be carried out Secretarial Reviews and monitors procedures in relation to the Call of all shareholders meetings Delegation of board powers Companys whistle-blowing policy Disclosure of directors interests Reviews and questions the effectiveness of all risk-management and internal control systems General Reviews the Companys statement on internal Board framework of executive control systems, before endorsement by the board remuneration and costs Considers the overall impact on the business of the Any other matters not within the terms of matters arisen from the various reviews described reference of any committee of the board Any other matter as determined from above and any other matters which the auditors, time to time by the board internal or external, may bring to the attention of the committee Board committees Ensures that all matters, where appropriate, are raised and brought to the attention of the board Audit committee The committee is chaired acting by Significant financial reporting items Elizabeth McMeikan and comprises, Debra van Gene The accounting policies of the Company and the and Sir Richard Beckett.
estimates and judgements made by management are assessed by the committee for their suitability.
The Representatives of the Companys external auditors, following areas are those considered to be the most  LLP, and the Companys significant by the committee: internal audit manager, finance director and personnel and legal director are invited to attend each audit committee meeting.
66 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The provision for the impairment of fixed assets and 31 July 2019, in line with the end of the current audit the onerous leases several judgements are used in partner rotation cycle, believing that this represents making this calculation, primarily on expected future an appropriate balance between operational efficiency sales and profits.
The committee received reports and and best practice.
questioned management on the calculations made and the assumptions used The committee also continues to consider annually the need to go to tender for audit quality or independence Significant one-off items of expense or income are reasons.
Subject to the outcome of this process reported as exceptional on the face of the income for 2016, it is currently expected that statement.
All exceptional items are reviewed by the committee  LLP will remain in office and that a resolution to appoint them for the 2017 audit will The committee reviewed and raised questions be proposed at the AGM.
on the calculations made by the Company in relation to the effectiveness and hedge accounting for interest-rate swaps Effectiveness of external auditors The audit committee assesses the ongoing effectiveness of the external auditors and audit The committee is satisfied that the judgements made process, on the basis of meetings and internal reviews by management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
with finance and other senior executives.
In reviewing the independence of the external auditors, Non-audit services the audit committee considers several factors.
These During the year, the Company made no use of include the standing, experience and tenure of the specialist teams from  LLP, relating to accounting or tax services.
The fees paid to external auditors, the nature and level of services provided and confirmation from the external auditors  LLP for non-audit services that they have complied with relevant UK were Nil 2015: 13,000.
The use of independence standards.
 LLP for non-audit work is monitored regularly, to achieve the necessary The terms of reference of the audit committee are independence and objectivity of the auditors.
available on the Companys website.
In addition, the chair of the audit committee is consulted before awarding to the external auditors any non-audit services in excess of 20,000.
Where the Remuneration committee The committee is chaired by Debra van Gene and auditors provide non-audit services, their objectivity comprises Elizabeth McMeikan and Sir Richard and independence are safeguarded by the use of Beckett.
The directors report on remuneration is set different teams.
See note 2 on page 16 for a breakdown of auditors remuneration for out on pages 55 to 63. audit and non-audit services.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the Companys website.
External auditors The audit committee is responsible for making recommendations to appoint, reappoint or remove Nomination committee The committee is chaired by Sir Richard Beckett and external auditors.
Following a review by the audit comprises Elizabeth McMeikan and Debra van Gene.
committee, the board agreed, in September 2016, to The committee meets at least annually and considers, recommend to shareholders, at the annual general meeting, the reappointment of the external auditors for among other matters, board appointments and the re-election of directors.
No director is involved in any a period of one year.
decision about his or her own reappointment.
In carrying out these activities, the non-executive Audit-tendering and rotation The audit committee keeps under review the directors follow the guidelines of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA requirements on audit-tendering and rotation from and comply with the Code.
the European Union and the Competition and Markets Authority.
In view of the changes to the regulatory requirements relating to mandatory audit-tendering, The terms of reference of the nomination committee are available on the Companys website.
the Company would be required to change its audit firm for the year ending 31 July 2021 at the latest.
Employment policies  LLP has been the auditor of Staff are encouraged to make a commitment to the Companys success and to progress to more senior the Company since 1984 and no audit-tendering roles as they develop.
process has been carried out subsequently.
In line with the Ethical Standards for auditors, the audit partner has been rotated every five years, with Andrew Latham In selecting, training and promoting staff, the Company has to take account of the physically demanding nature completing his third year as audit partner this year end.
The Company is committed to The audit committee currently expects to put the audit equality of opportunity and to the elimination of out to tender in time for the audit of the year ending discrimination in employment.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company aims to create and maintain a working The risk register is presented to the audit committee environment, terms and conditions of employment and and management board annually, with a schedule of personnel and management practices which ensure audit work agreed on, on a rolling basis.
The purpose that no individual receives less favourable treatment of this work is to review, on behalf of the Company and on the grounds of his or her race, religion or belief, the board, those key risks and the systems of control nationality, ethnic origin, age, disability, gender necessary to manage such risks.
including gender reassignment, sexual orientation, part-time status or marital status.
Where recommendations are made for changes in systems or processes to reduce risk, internal audit will Employees who become disabled will be retained, follow up regularly to ensure that the recommendations where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
The Company has established a range of policies, A summary of the financial risks and treasury policies covering issues such as diversity, employees wellcan be found on page 44, together with other risks being and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that and uncertainties.
all employees are treated fairly and consistently.
Internal control Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are During the year, the Company provided an internal well informed about the Companys progress, through audit and risk-management function.
The creation of the use of regular newsletters, the Companys intranet a system of internal control and risk mitigation is a key and staff liaison discussion, at which employees part of the Companys operations and culture.
The views are discussed and taken into account.
board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The All pub staff participate in bonus schemes related function can only manage, rather than entirely to sales, profits, stocks and service standards.
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable, and not Relations with shareholders absolute, assurance against material misstatement or The board takes measures to ensure that all board loss.
Ongoing reviews, assessments and management members are kept aware of both the views of major of significant risks took place throughout the year under shareholders and changes in the major shareholdings review and up to the date of the approval of the annual of the Company.
Efforts made to accomplish effective report and accord with the Turnbull Guidance communication include: Guidance on Internal Control.
Annual general meeting, considered to be The Company has an internal audit function an important forum for shareholders to raise which is discharged as follows: questions with the board Regular feedback from the Companys stockbrokers Regular audits of the Companys stock Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated Unannounced visits to pub sites to shareholders Monitoring systems which control Any significant changes in shareholder movement the Companys cash being notified to the board by the company secretary, Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance when necessary with Company procedures The company secretary maintaining procedures and Reviewing and assessing the impact of agreements for all announcements to the Stock Market legislative and regulatory change A programme of regular meetings between investors Risk-management process, identifying key risks and directors of the Company facing the business Risk management The Company has key controls, as follows: The board is responsible for the Companys risk-management process.
Authority limits and controls over cash-handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditure The internal audit department, in conjunction with A budgeting process, with a detailed 12-month feedback from senior management of the business operating plan and a mid-term financial plan, functions, produces a risk register annually.
both approved by the board Business results reported weekly, with a report The identified risks are assessed, based on the compared with budget and the previous year likelihood of a risk occurring and the potential impact Forecasts prepared regularly throughout the year, to the business, should the risk materialise.
for review by the board Complex treasury instruments are not used.
The The head of internal audit determines and reviews the Company, from time to time, as stated in our report and risk-assessment process and will communicate the accounts, enters into swap arrangements which fix timetable annually.
interest rates at certain levels for a number of years 68 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and enters into supply arrangements with fixed prices for electricity and gas, for example, which run for between one and three years An annual review of the amount of external insurance which it obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its costs and the likelihood of the risks involved Regular evaluation of processes and controls, in relation to the Companys financial reporting requirements.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Approved and signed on behalf of the board Nigel Connor Company Secretary 8 September 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 69
