WH Smith PLC 30 Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Board of Directors As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chairman, two executive directors and three independent non-executive directors.
Short biographies of each of these directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 39.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company: Henry Staunton Chairman being responsible for running the Board and Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive being responsible for implementing strategy.
Drummond Hall is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates the decisionmaking process.
Henry Staunton Chairman All the directors, whose biographies are on page 39, served during the financial year ended 31 August 2016 and up to the date of this report.
All of the non-executive directors who served during the year and up to the date of this report are considered by the Board to Introduction from the Chairman be independent.
The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest The Board met nine times during the year.
It is expected that all standards of corporate governance.
As Chairman, my role is to directors attend Board meetings, Committee meetings and the run the Board to ensure that the Company operates effectively Annual General Meeting AGM unless they are prevented from and ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills and doing so by prior commitments.
The minimum time commitment experience to assess, manage and mitigate risks.
expected from the non-executive directors is one day per month attendance at meetings, together with attendance at the AGM, This report, which forms part of the Directors report, provides Board away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation time.
details of how the Company has applied the principles of, Where directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the and complied with, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any the Code.
A copy of the Code is available publicly from issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the www.
Following the meeting the Chairman briefs any director The information that is required by Disclosure Guidance and not present on the discussions and any decisions taken at the Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys meeting.
The following table shows the number of Board meetings Corporate governance statement is included in this Corporate held during the year ended 31 August 2016 and the attendance governance report, in the Directors remuneration report on record of individual directors.
pages 40 to 52 and in the Directors report on pages 53 to 56.
Number of meetings Board membership attended Henry Staunton 9 of 9 Suzanne Baxter 9 of 9 Stephen Clarke 9 of 9 Annemarie Durbin 9 of 9 Drummond Hall 9 of 9 Robert Moorhead 9 of 9 The Board has met twice since 31 August 2016 and all the directors attended both meetings.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 31 report governance statements information The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for of matters reserved for its decision with its key focus being on identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks faced by the creating long-term sustainable shareholder value.
The significant Group, including those risks relating to social, environmental matters reserved for its decision include: the overall management and ethical matters.
The Board confirms that the systems have of the Company: approval of the business model and strategic been in place for the year under review and up to the date of plans including acquisitions and disposals: approval of the this report and that they accord with the FRC Guidance on Risk Companys commercial strategy and operating and capital Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business expenditure budgets: approval of the Annual report and financial Reporting the Risk Management and Internal Control Guidance.
statements, material agreements and non-recurring projects: The systems are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The principal treasury and dividend policy: control, audit and risk management: risks and uncertainties facing the Group can be found in the executive remuneration: and corporate social responsibility.
Strategic report on pages 20 to 24.
The Board has a forward timetable of business to ensure Further information on internal controls and risk management that it allocates sufficient time to key areas.
The timetable is can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 35 and 36. flexible enough for items to be added to any particular agenda All directors have access to the advice and services of the as necessary.
The Boards annual business includes Chief Company Secretary and may take independent professional Executives reports including business reports, financial results, advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their strategy, risk management, dividend policy, investor relations, duties.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, health and safety, Board evaluation, governance and compliance, with Board and Committee papers normally being sent out a communications and the Annual report.
week before meetings take place.
New directors receive induction The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system training on joining the Board which is tailored to meet their needs of risk management and internal control including financial to learn about the business, its markets and risks and includes controls, controls in respect of the financial reporting process store visits and meetings with employees across the businesses and operational and compliance controls and has conducted a and with external advisers.
The need for director training is detailed review of its effectiveness during the year, to ensure that regularly assessed by the Board.
management has implemented its policies on risk and control.
The performance of the Board, its Committees and its individual This review included receiving reports from management, directors is a fundamental component of the Companys success.
discussion, challenge, and assessment of the principal risks.
The Board regularly reviews its own performance and carried No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from this out a formal evaluation in August 2016.
In addition, the Board also received presentations from co-ordinated and directed by the Chairman with the support of management on higher risk areas, for example, cyber risk, risks the Company Secretary.
A questionnaire was prepared by the arising from the process of exiting the European Union and Chairman and the Company Secretary and formed the basis of growing international expansion.
The Board has established an in-depth interviews with each director.
The scope of the evaluation organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility was broad and included Board effectiveness, Board structure and approval controls identifying matters requiring approval and diversity, decision-making processes, corporate strategy and by the Board.
Steps continue to be taken to embed internal business model, risk, succession planning, investor relations and control and risk management further into the operations of the Board Committees.
business and to deal with areas that require improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
Such a The findings were presented to the Board in October 2016. system is, however, designed to manage rather than eliminate The results of the assessment were considered by the Board, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only and confirmed the strength of the management of the Company, provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material a sound governance framework and practices compliant with misstatement or loss.
As a result of the review, the Board agreed a number of actions which will be implemented in the financial year ending 31 August 2017 and which include continuing to build relationships between members of the Board and key talent below Board level by, for example, the non-executive directors spending time with key management, additional measures to ensure maximum benefit is derived from the strategy session held each year and continuing to build on the Companys succession plans for Board and key management.
In addition to the Board and Committee evaluation process, the Group Chief Executive reviews the performance of the Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer CFO COO and other senior executives.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Group Chief Executive.
The Board intends to undertake an external review in 2017 as the Company seeks to further enhance the effectiveness of the Board.
WH Smith PLC 32 Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued The Chairman also undertook a rigorous review with each of At no time during the year did any of the directors have a material the non-executive directors to assess their effectiveness and interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of commitment to the role.
During the year, the Chairman had its subsidiaries.
regular meetings with the non-executive directors, without the The Board delegates specific responsibilities to the Board executive directors present, to discuss Board issues and how Committees, being the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration to maintain the best possible team.
The Board is satisfied that Committees.
Details of the role and responsibilities of the Audit each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to Committee can be found on pages 33 to 36, of the Nominations the business of the Company and contributes to its governance Committee on page 37 and of the Remuneration Committee on and operations.
The Senior Independent Director met the other pages 40 to 52.
In addition, following the implementation of the non-executive directors to assess the Chairmans performance new EU Market Abuse Regulation MAR in July 2016, the Board taking into account also the views of the executive directors and established a Disclosure Committee which is responsible for they concluded that Henry Staunton continues to be an effective ensuring compliance with the Companys obligations under MAR.
Chairman and demonstrates his commitment to the role.
The role and responsibilities of each Committee are set out in The Chairman was appointed as the Chairman of Phoenix Group formal terms of reference which are available on the Companys Holdings on 1 September 2015.
In advance of this, the Board website, www.
reviewed the Chairmans existing commitments and the time commitment required for the new role, and had no objection to During the year ahead, the Board will continue to focus on theChairman taking up the appointment.
succession planning to ensure the readiness of internal candidates for all key roles across the business.
The Board is committed to Under the Companys Articles of Association, directors are good governance, culture and leadership recognising that these required to retire and submit themselves for re-election are key considerations for a strong sustainable business and that every three years and new directors appointed by the Board the tone comes from the top.
Our business model on pages 4 and offer themselves for election at the next AGM following their 5 outlines the importance of having the right people and skills, appointment.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board and operating responsibly.
The Companys values, behaviours has agreed that all directors will stand for re-election at the AGM and culture will continue to form an important part of the Boards to be held on 25 January 2017.
Biographies of all the directors are discussions.
The Nominations Committee will continue to support set out on page 39 of this Annual report and are also available for the Board by ensuring that culture is built into recruitment and viewing on the Companys website, www.
The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the Board The Board recognises the importance of being visible and toappoint directors and, where notice is given and signed by all the accessible to customers and employees and, during the year, the other directors, to remove a director from office.
The Companys Board visited the stores at Stansted Airport and Alicante Airport.
Articles of Association themselves may be amended by special During these visits the Board received presentations from our resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles of Association were airport partners and local management teams.
The non-executive approved by shareholders at the AGM in January 2016. directors are also encouraged to accompany management on The interests of the directors and their immediate families in site visits to the High Street and Travel stores.
The Board believes the share capital of the Company, along with details of directors that site visits provide directors with valuable insights into the share awards, are contained in the Directors remuneration report business, helping to deepen their knowledge and understanding on pages 40 to 52. ofthe Company.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 33 report governance statements information Board Committees Audit Committee A summary of the activities undertaken by the Committee during the year is as follows: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk, including cyber security, tax and in respect of the Companys international businesses: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and trading statements: considering papers from management on the key financial reporting judgements, including the Companys approach to recognising supplier incomes: Suzanne Baxter Chair reviewing the Interim report and the Annual report and accounts including compliance with the Code and statutory reporting requirements and recommending those documents for Board approval: considering the Companys principal risks and uncertainties Audit Committee report and reviewing the mitigating actions that management has taken to ensure that these risks are appropriately monitored Dear Shareholder and controlled: As Chair of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present my monitoring the role and effectiveness of Internal Audit: report on the activities of the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 August 2016.
Our principal objectives are to oversee receiving reports and presentations from the business and assist the Board in its responsibility to produce a set of Annual risk committees: report and accounts which are fair, balanced and understandable receiving and reviewing reports from the Internal Audit and and to provide effective financial governance in respect of the Risk teams: Groups financial results, the performance of both the internal audit function and the external Auditor, and the management of holding private meetings with the external and internal Auditors: the Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related considering the issues which may impact the Company compliance activities.
following the vote to leave the European Union: The other members of the Committee are Annemarie Durbin agreeing the scope of  LLPs PwC and Drummond Hall who are both independent non-executive annual audit plans, assessing the effectiveness of the external directors.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant audit process and considering the accounting, financial control financial experience, as required by the Code and that the and audit issues reported by the auditors that flowed from Committee, as a whole, has competence relevant to the sector, in their work: which the Company operates.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the CFO reviewing auditor independence and the policy on the COO, the Director of Audit and Risk and representatives of the engagement of PwC to supply non-audit services: Groups senior management team and of the external Auditor negotiating and agreeing the audit fee: attend meetings.
The Committee has regular private meetings with the external and internal Auditors during the year.
undertaking a performance review of Internal Audit and the Companys Auditor: and The Committee met four times during the year.
All Committee members are expected to attend meetings.
The following table considering the CSR report.
shows the number of meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2016 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Number of meetings Committee membership attended Suzanne Baxter 4 of 4 Annemarie Durbin 4 of 4 Drummond Hall 4 of 4 Henry Staunton, Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead were invited to and attended all four meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has met once since 31 August 2016 and all the Committee members attended the meeting.
WH Smith PLC 34 Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued Board Committees Audit Committee Pensions Long-term viability statement The Committee assessed the accounting treatment adopted by Following the adoption of the Code during the financial year management and the application of IAS 19 revised in relation to ended 31 August 2016, the Committees terms of reference were the WH Smith defined benefit pension scheme.
The Committee, extended to include providing advice to the Board on the form having also received a paper on pensions from the external andbasis underlying the long-term viability statement set out on Auditor, and considered the current guidance and requirements in page 24. respect of pensions accounting, reviewed the judgements made in respect of the assumptions used in the valuation of the Companys The Committee reviewed the process and assessment of the obligations under the scheme and the recognition of future Companys prospects made by management, including: liabilities in respect of committed scheme contributions onthe the review period and alignment with the Companys balance sheet.
internal forecasts: Impairment review of store assets the assessment of the capacity of the Company to remain The Committee considered the judgements made by management viable after consideration of future cash flows, borrowings and in respect of the Groups store assets given that sales and mitigating factors: and cost pressures may adversely impact the recoverable value of assets used within the store portfolio.
The Committee noted that the modelling of the financial impact of certain of the management had considered the trading results of each store for Companys principal risks materialising using severe but the year and noted that where a store is loss making and is not plausible scenarios.
expected to return to profitability in the near future, an impairment Significant financial reporting issues charge is recognised over the assets that cannot be recycled within the store portfolio.
The Committee, having also received a In preparing the accounts there are a number of areas paper from the external Auditor, was satisfied that the approach requiring the exercise by management of particular judgement.
adopted by management was sufficiently robust to identify when The Committees role is to assess whether the judgements made an impairment charge of store assets needs to be recognised.
by management are reasonable and appropriate.
In order to assist in this evaluation, the CFO COO presents an accounting paper to Property transactions and provisions the Committee twice a year, setting out the key financial reporting The Committee considered the nature of property transactions judgements, and other papers as required.
The main areas of undertaken by the Company in the year and reviewed the judgement that have been considered by the Committee in the Companys obligations and provisions for the cost of onerous preparation of the financial statements are as follows: property leases including lease obligations in respect of discontinued operations.
Accounting for inventory The Committee considered the judgements made by management Each of the above areas of judgement has been identified and a paper from the external Auditor regarding the valuation as an area of focus and therefore the Committee has also of inventory, with specific consideration given to inventory reviewed detailed reporting from the external Auditor on the provisioning, including provision for slow moving or obsolete relevant issues.
The Committee is satisfied that the process adopted by management for the valuation of inventory is sufficiently robust to establish the value of inventory held and is satisfied as to the appropriateness of the Companys provisioning policy.
Recognition of supplier income Supplier Income recognition remains a focus for the Committee.
The Committee considered, and reviewed in detail, managements paper which set out the nature and value of these arrangements and the policy for recognition in the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied with managements conclusion that the level of complexity and judgement is low in relation to establishing the accounting entries and estimates, and the timing of recognition.
The Committee also considered the disclosure included by management in the Annual report and accounts.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 35 report governance statements information Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Risk management and internal controls As required by the Code, the directors confirm that they consider The Committee monitors and regularly reviews the effectiveness the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, of the Groups risk management processes and internal balanced and understandable and that it provides the information financial and non-financial controls.
The key features of the risk necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position management process that were in place during the year are and performance, business model and strategy.
When arriving as follows: at this position the Board was assisted by a number of processes each business conducts risk assessments based on identified including the following: business objectives which are reviewed and agreed annually the Annual report and accounts is drafted by senior by the executive management of each business.
Risks are management with overall co-ordination by a member of considered in respect of strategy, reputation, operations, the Group Finance team to ensure consistency across the financial and compliance and are evaluated in respect of their relevant sections: potential impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments are updated and reviewed quarterly and are reported to an internal verification process is undertaken to ensure the Committee: factual accuracy: a Group risk assessment is also undertaken by the Internal an independent review is undertaken by the Director of Audit Audit team, which considers all areas of potential risk across and Risk to assess whether the Annual report and accounts is all systems, functions and key business processes.
This risk fair, balanced and understandable using a set of pre-defined assessment, together with the business risk assessments, indicators such as consistency with internally reported forms the basis for determining the Internal Audit Plan.
information and investor communications : Audit reports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed andagreed with the Committee: comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual report and accounts are undertaken by the executive directors and other the Internal Audit team meets annually with all senior senior management: executives, to undertake a formal review and certification an advanced draft is reviewed by the Board and the Companys process in assessing the effectiveness of the internal controls across the Group.
The results of this review are reported to Legal Director and, in relation to certain sections, by external legal advisers: and the Committee: the Committee confirmed to the Board that it has reviewed the final draft of the Annual report and accounts was reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, including by the Committee prior to consideration by the Board.
financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk The Committee advised the Board that the Annual report and management for the period of this report, in accordance accounts taken as a whole was considered to be fair, balanced with the Code and the Risk Management and Internal and understandable and that it provided the information Control Guidance: necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
the Board is responsible for approving the annual budget and the three-year plan, for approving major acquisitions and disposals and for determining the financial structure of the Company, including treasury and dividend policy.
Monthly results, variances from plan and forecasts are reportedto the Board: the Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its duties regarding the Groups financial statements, accounting policies and the maintenance of proper internal business, operational and financial controls.
The Committee provides a direct link between the Board and the external Auditor through regular meetings: WH Smith PLC 36 Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued Board Committees Audit Committee the Internal Audit team advises and assists management External Auditor in the establishment and maintenance of adequate internal During the year the external Auditor reported to the Committee controls and reports to the Committee on the effectiveness on their independence from the Company.
The Committee ofthose controls: and the Board are satisfied that PwC has adequate policies there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and and for monitoring and reporting the performance of the independence are maintained.
The Committee has recommended Companys business to the Board.
Monthly results are to the Board the re-appointment of the external Auditor for the reported against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the 2017 financial year and the directors will be proposing the recurrent financial year are regularly revised in light of actual appointment of PwC at the 2017 AGM.
PwC were first appointed as performance.
These results and forecasts cover profits, cash auditor at the 2015 AGM, following a competitive tender process flows, capital expenditure and balance sheets: completed in 2014.
The Committee will continue to review the external Auditors appointment and the need to tender the audit.
routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and risks, for review by senior executives, and annual reports are In line with our terms of reference, the Committee undertook prepared for the Board and Committee covering tax, treasury a thorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and policies, insurance and pensions: independence of the 2016 year-end audit provided by PwC.
The Director of Audit and Risk prepared a questionnaire seeking a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the Board, the views and feedback of the Board, together with those of Group including objectives and targets to address the impact that our and divisional management and it formed the basis of further activities have on the environment, workplace, marketplace and discussion with respondents.
The findings of the survey were community.
More detailed information is available in our full CR considered by the Committee.
co. uk cr: and The Committee has a formal policy on the Companys relationship the Board is committed to maintaining high standards of health with its external Auditor in respect of non-audit work to ensure and safety in all its business activities.
These standards are set that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
out in the Companys Health and Safety Policy which is regularly The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee, and will be reviewed by the Board.
A copy of our Health and Safety policy is updated following the introduction of the new EU regulations in available at www.
The Risk Management respect of provision of non-audit services.
The majority of nonteam works with the business to assess health and safety audit work undertaken by PwC in 2015 16 related to pensions and risks and introduce systems to mitigate them.
The Auditor may only provide such services if such accidents are investigated and targets are set to reduce the advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and level of incidence.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, my approval is The Director of Audit and Risk attends the meetings of the required before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed Committee to discuss the above matters.
For the financial year ended 31 August 2016 the non-audit fees paid to PwC were 15,628 and the audit fees payable to PwC were 364,450.
The Company has complied during the financial year under review, and up to the date of this report, with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Suzanne Baxter Chair of the Audit Committee 13 October 2016 WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 37 report governance statements information Board Committees Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee has met once since 31 August 2016 and all the Committee members attended the meeting.
The Committee keeps itself updated on key developments relevant to the Company, including on the subject of diversity.
Information on diversity, including gender, in respect of the Board and the Company is set out in the Employees and Diversity section of the Strategic report on page 29.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture free from discrimination in any form and is proud of its long history of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
The Board is committed to strengthening the pipeline of women in senior roles across the business and continues to take steps to ensure there are Henry Staunton no barriers to women succeeding at the highest level of the Chair Company.
An action plan has been agreed to take further steps to improve workplace diversity.
Actions include the appointment of a Diversity and Inclusion sponsor to champion diversity within the Senior Management team, and the provision of mentoring, as well as focused initiatives to better understand the challenges faced by under-represented groups employed within the Company.
Nominations Committee report Further information on Diversity is set out in the Employees and Dear Shareholder Diversity section of this report on page 29.
As Chair of the Nominations Committee I am pleased to present The Committee will continue to focus on succession planning my report on the activities of the Nominations Committee for the and talent management for key roles across the business, financial year ended 31 August 2016.
The Committees principal to ensure the Company develops a pipeline of high quality responsibility is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals internal candidates for senior management roles.
Work is being with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that undertaken to ensure succession arrangements are in place for it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and ensure that Board members and key management.
appropriate procedures are in place for the nomination, selection The Committee will also enhance its focus on culture in the year and succession of directors and senior executives.
ahead, recognising that good governance, leadership and culture The Committee comprises a majority of independent nonare key considerations for a strong sustainable business.
The other members of the Committee In preparation for its Gender pay gap reporting obligations, the are Suzanne Baxter, Stephen Clarke, Annemarie Durbin and Company has begun the work to understand the level of any Drummond Hall.
In the event of any matters arising concerning difference between male and female pay throughout the Company.
my membership of the Board, I would absent myself from the meeting as required by the Code and Drummond Hall, the Senior I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any Independent Director, would take the Chair.
questions about the work of the Committee.
The Committee met once during the year.
The principal matters Henry Staunton discussed at the meeting were succession planning for Board and Chair of the Nominations Committee senior executives, career planning and identifying talent across the businesses.
13 October 2016 All Committee members are expected to attend meetings.
The following table shows the number of meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2016 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Number of meetings Committee membership attended Henry Staunton 1 of 1 Suzanne Baxter 1 of 1 Stephen Clarke 1 of 1 Annemarie Durbin 1 of 1 Drummond Hall 1 of 1 Robert Moorhead was also invited to and attended the one meeting of the Nominations Committee.
WH Smith PLC 38 Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued Remuneration Committee Information on the composition and activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 52.
Anti-corruption The Company has continued to enhance its policies and procedures in order to meet the requirements of the Bribery Act 2010.
These policies and procedures include training for individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be construed as contravening the Act.
The Groups Bribery Ethics Statement is included on the Companys website, www.
co. uk corporate responsibility our policies.
Compliance with the Code Throughout the year ended 31 August 2016 and up to the date of this report the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code including the updates applicable since our financial year end.
The Board acknowledges the changes to the Code that were announced in April 2016 and apply to the Companys financial year ending 31 August 2017.
These changes will be an area of focus for the Board and the relevant Committees over the next year and the Company will report on compliance against the revised Code in the 2017 Annual report.
This report was approved by the Board on 13 October 2016.
Signed on behalf of the Board Henry Staunton Chairman 13 October 2016
