Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Nomination Committee report Role of the Nomination Committee Our approach to the appointment The role of the Nomination Committee is to of new directors review the Board composition and identify and The Nomination Committee annually evaluates nominate directors who could add value to the the balance of skills, experience, independence Boards performance.
The Committee is also and knowledge on the responsible for evaluating the directors on an Board, preparing a description of the role annual basis and striving for a balance of skills, and capabilities required for a particular knowledge, independence, experience and appointment.
We use external search consultants to engage The Committee meets at least twice a year.
and identify a number of candidates, ensuring The main activities during 2015 16 included: equal representation, aligned with the role Richard Baker and capabilities required for the appointment.
Chairman, the appointment of the new Whitbread Selected candidates meet with the Nomination Committee Chief Executive: Nomination Committee and further interviews take place before an appointment is made.
the appointment of a new independent nonexecutive director: Members of the Board changes during the year the annual planning and review meeting: Nomination Committee Following an announcement in April 2015 concerning Chief Executive succession, a review of the Board size, structure and Richard Baker Chairman Andy Harrison stepped down from the Board composition, with a view to ensuring the Wendy Becker in December 2015 after five years as Chief continued ability of the organisation to Executive.
The process to find his successor compete effectively in the marketplace: Sir Ian Cheshire was led by myself with the Nomination a review of the talent and succession Simon Melliss Committee and supported by Louise Smalley, planning for the Board, taking into account Group HR Director.
Stephen Williams the challenges and opportunities facing Chris Vaughan Secretary the business: and Spencer Stuart was appointed as adviser to the Committee in the search for external the reelection of directors at the AGM.
Its only connection to the Company is that Stephen Williams acts as The Committee is responsible for ensuring that an adviser to it.
Board and committee membership is progressively refreshed and that there is no A preliminary list of candidates was prepared undue reliance on any one individual.
This is and a series of first stage meetings with the reviewed at the annual meeting in February.
Nomination Committee was undertaken, after which the Committee determined who The full terms of reference are available should go through to the next phase.
The on the Companys website.
second stage of interviews were carried out by myself, the Senior Independent Director and Board appointments and diversity Louise Smalley, where the candidates were Appointments to the Board are based on merit asked to expand on their leadership approach against objective criteria.
and strategic plans for the business.
Arrangements were also put in place for Diversity and equality have always been the final candidates to meet with Nicholas core values at Whitbread.
The Board believes Cadbury, Finance Director and for a further that diversity is of utmost importance, ensuring meeting with Simon Melliss as Chairman Board and Company effectiveness and of the Audit Committee.
Whitbread appoints members of the Board on the basis of Following the extensive search and selection performance and the ability to continually process, Alison Brittain was the standout contribute to the Board, on the grounds candidate from a very strong field and was of the knowledge, skills and experience appointed to succeed Andy Harrison as the required.
We are committed to an active policy next Chief Executive.
Alison joined the of equal opportunities and embrace diversity at Company in September 2015 as Chief all levels.
Executive Designate before taking over as Chief Executive in December 2015, allowing a thorough handover with Andy to take place.
Whitbread Nomination Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Committee report 74 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Whitbread has generated substantial value In October 2015, Chris Vaughan was appointed as General Counsel, taking over from Simon by getting bigger and, more importantly, Barratt, who stepped down after 18 years better over the last five years under Andys of service.
In April 2016 Christopher Rogers leadership and we are confident that Alisons stepped down from the Board.
appointment will ensure that Whitbread continues to get even better still.
Our approach to the annual reelection of directors During the year, following a review of the As required by the Code, all directors Board and the need to ensure membership will be subject to reelection at the next is progressively refreshed, it was agreed AGM.
The Nomination Committee held a that a new independent nonexecutive planning and review meeting in February director should be appointed.
when the contribution and commitment of each member of the Board was reviewed.
Following a selection process, Zygos was Following this discussion, it was appointed as adviser to the Committee recommended that all directors be in the search for external candidates.
Zygos proposed for reappointment at this years has no other connections to the Company.
Details setting out why each director A detailed specification for the role was is deemed to be suitable for reappointment prepared, and a preliminary list of candidates will be included with the AGM papers was prepared for consideration.
Following the interview and assessment As mentioned, Simon Melliss will be stepping process, Chris Kennedy was appointed down from the Board in October 2016 after as a nonexecutive director, joining the nine years service.
The only other non Board on 1 March 2016.
As well as having executive directors of the Board that have a strong financial background, Chriss been directors for a term longer than six years recent experience in online, international, are Wendy Becker and Stephen Williams.
consumerfacing business will add significant value to the Whitbread Board.
Chris will take over from Simon Melliss as Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1 October 2016, who will be stepping down Richard Baker from the Board after nine years of service.
Chairman, Nomination Committee 25 April 2016 Length of tenure of directors as 3 March 2016 Richard Baker Alison Brittain Nicholas Cadbury Christopher Rogers Louise Smalley Wendy Becker Sir Ian Cheshire Chris Kennedy Simon Melliss Susan Taylor Martin Stephen Williams Whitbread Nomination Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Committee report 75
