William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 50 Report on Corporate Governance Overview of the Board 2016 calendar of Board Board role & structure activityand key dates William Hill has an effective Board whose role is to take collective responsibility for both February 2016 leadership and driving the long-term and sustainable success of the Company.
In order to 2015 Full Year results: Share support the Board in the discharge of its duties, there is a formal framework of committees Repurchase Programme of the Board.
This section sets out a summary of the key roles and responsibilities of each March 2016 committee and how that committee supports the Board.
Further details on the roles Online Performance: Trading Update andresponsibilities of each committee and the work they have undertaken in the last yearis provided in the specific reports from each committee commencing on page 60.
April 2016 Investment in NYX Gaming Group May Board structure 350m Corporate Bond refinancing July Board Board changes: Response to Rank Role: Group & 888 Holdings proposal Responsible for the overall long-term success of William Hill, its strategic direction and setting the Groups culture August and values.
Half Year results: Grand Key focus in 2016: Parade acquisition Oversight of strategic and operational delivery: changes to Executive team: response to corporate activity September See calendar of Board activities to the right of this page.
Board Strategy Conference October Amaya, Inc merger proposal and shareholder consultation Audit and Risk Remuneration Corporate Nomination Management Committee Responsibility Committee November Committee CR Committee Appointment of Mark Brooker, John OReilly and Robin Terrell as NonRole: Role: Role: Role: executive Directors: Review of the Advises the Board on Sets the remuneration Sets the Groups Advises on financial statements, policy for the CR policies and appointments to the annual operating plan for 2017 policies, internal Companys most direction.
Reviews Board and on Board controls and risk senior executives how the Group composition and December management.
Approval of the annual operating plan Oversees the Agrees awards behaviour on social, for 2017: Technology Security report: relationship with and other terms of ethical and industry both the internal and remuneration for matters.
Regulatory Review: Arrangements for the external auditor.
Key focus in 2016: Key focus in 2016: Key focus in 2016: Key focus in 2016: Financial Reporting: New remuneration Monitoring Recommending At every meeting the Board receives Online controls: policy for approval key regulatory changes to Board and discusses updates from the technology security: in 2017: approving and industry composition: post-investment remuneration developments.
approving new Interim CEO, Interim CFO, Director reviews.
elements of Board appointments: of Legal Services and the Company changes.
reviewing committee Secretary in respect of progress against composition: succession planning strategy, operational matters, financial performance including a comparison against internal plans, compliance and regulation, legal matters and The Board of William Hill remains committed to high standards of corporate governance, corporate governance.
which we consider to be vital to the effective management of the business and to maintaining the confidence of investors.
We have a defined framework of roles and responsibilities in place to support the Boards operation.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 51 Governance Matters reserved to the Board Information flows to the Board Financial In order to support the Boards primary statements Material policy decisions and Updates from across the role to promote the long-term success of mattersreserved to the Board: businessinclude: the Company and to promote a strong Corporate reporting Company performance control environment, the Board operates Board Strategy Conference Potential market opportunities within a formal Schedule of Matters Board operational reviews, Market, regulatory, legal and corporate Reserved to it and this forms part of an including overseas governance updates overarching Group Delegation of Authority.
Annual operating plan and five-year Investor Relations and other Only the Board may exercise any of strategicplan stakeholdersreports the powers in the Schedule of Matters Reserved.
Other powers are delegated to the various Board Committees and senior Annual ad hoc items discussed by Standing regular items discussed by management via formal Committee terms theBoard theBoard of reference or via the Group Delegation of Authority.
The Group Delegation of Authority and Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board are reviewed and Board oversight, decision-making, approval, strategic planning updated on a regular basis.
The Group Delegation of Authority and Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board are approval of the Groups annual plan, fiveBoard operation circulated by the Company Secretary to all year strategic plan, Annual Report and members of the Group Executive team and How the Board operates Accounts, Half Yearly Statement and certain other senior managers to ensure setting the Groups dividend policy: the authorities which have been agreed The Chairman, along with the executive by the Board are understood across the approval of the Groups charitable directors and the Company Secretary, has entire business.
donations and Group-wide corporate established Board processes designed to responsibility policies: maximise its performance.
At the heart of Matters reserved to the Board include: this is the flow of high-quality information undertaking reviews of Board, setting the overall direction, long-term on a regular basis which allows the Board Committee and individual director objectives and strategy of the Group and to monitor the performance of the Group performance: and delegating day-to-day management to across a wide range of issues and to succession planning for senior the Chief Executive: make decisions and approvals affecting management and the Board the strategy and operation of the Group.
reviewing Group performance: on the recommendation of the The Board also receives timely information Nomination Committee.
reviewing the arrangements in place on current and potential future matters relating to regulatory and industry issues: The authority delegated to senior affecting the business and theenvironment approving the appointment and management provides a practical in which it operates so that the longer-term removal of any Board member and framework to executive management, prospects of the Group canbe considered theCompany Secretary: which seeks to achieve the dual objectives in a strategic manner.
of maintaining effective financial and reviewing and approving the terms operational controls whilst providing of reference of the various Board sufficient flexibility to manage the Committees and receiving reports from business.
Examples of areas of such committee chairmen on a regular basis: delegated authority include: the release approving changes to the Groups capital of capital expenditure against approved structure, any significant acquisitions budgets: treasury activity within approved and disposals, capital investment limits: payroll processing: property projects and material contracts: transactions: LBO activities: the setting of bet acceptance limits: and routine transaction processing.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 52 Report on Corporate Governance continued In addition to the information provided on Key aspects of the organisation of the Board include: a standing basis at most Board meetings, the Board holds annual or ad hoc events Board meetings are scheduled to ensure consideration of issues relevant to the which provide an opportunity to focus Board and to provide adequate time for discussion of each agenda item.
This is specifically on certain issues.
In particular: supported by a forward-looking 12-month rolling Board plan which not only provides thedirectors with a longer-term outlookof the business the Board needs to consider, an annual Board Strategy Conference but it also provides aregular and systematic opportunity for each director to add BSC is held with the Board and selected additional items which they consider important in the forthcoming year: senior management to review and during 2016 Board members were required to be available to the Company more develop the strategy and direction of frequently and consider matters of greater strategic importance to the Group than the Company.
The BSC in 2016 reviewed would ordinarily be expected.
The flexible and collaborative approach of each of each part of the business as well as the Non-executive Directors facilitated the required co-ordinated response to the wider strategic issues.
A comprehensive corporate activity during the year: process is in place to track and follow up on actions arising from the annual comprehensive reporting packs are provided to the Board, which are designed to be BSC.
The Board continues to also clear, accurate and analytical, whilst avoiding excessive and unnecessary information.
approve a medium-term five-year Papers are distributed and retained in an electronic system which is managed by the strategic plan which reflects over the Company Secretary and this provides directors with instant access to current and longer term the Companys strategy prior papers at any time: and the environment in which the a summary of the actions arising at each Board and Committee meeting iscirculated business operates: by the Company Secretary following each meeting.
The Company Secretary then regular visits are held where the Board ensures progress is made in respect of each action and a progress report against can see one of the Groups business previously agreed actions is dealt with as a standing item to provide feedback tothe locations away from the head office.
entire Board that actions have been progressed appropriately: This gives the Board an opportunity to reporting packs are normally prepared by the executive directors and other senior gain far greater insight on the particular managers and then distributed by the Company Secretary to the Board at least business and also provides an excellent four working days in advance of Board meetings.
This enables the reporting packs opportunity for extended meetings to be as up to date as possible whilst allowing sufficient time for their review and and discussions with a broader range consideration in advance of the meeting.
Verbal updates at Board meetings cover of the management team.
In addition, any material developments subsequent to the distribution of reporting packs.
individual directors also visit other Presentations and discussions during Board meetings are provided by either the business locations of the Company and executive director concerned or by the relevant senior manager who has been when this is done the director provides a invited to attend for that particular item: report back to the Board: and each scheduled Board meeting reviews individual reports received from the Interim each year the annual operating plan Chief Executive Officer, the Interim Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Group for the following financial year is Legal Services and the Company Secretary as standing agenda items: discussed and approved by the Board.
the annual calendar of scheduled Board meetings is also structured to allow This sets the targets and agrees the the Board to review cyclical and ad hoc agenda items, which are scheduled by key operational matters for each part the Company Secretary to coincide with relevant key dates and events, or the ofthe business for the subsequent year.
Examples of each can be found in the annual Performance against plan is reviewed calendar of board activities 2016: regularly during the year.
where a director is unable to attend he or she is still provided with the papers in order The organisation and management of the to comment ahead of the meeting on the matters to be discussed: Board is designed to support good debate financial updates with commentary aredistributed to the Board on a regular basis.
and consideration of important matters.
The Board regularly reviews risk management and challenges this where appropriate: Board discussions are held in a collaborative atmosphere of mutual respect allowing for questions, scrutiny and constructive challenge, where appropriate.
In addition to formal Board meetings, during the year the Board held a series of informal dinners which provided an excellent opportunity for further discussion between the Board and for the Board to engage further with various members of the management team in discussions over various matters in a more informal setting: full debates allow decisions to be taken by consensus although any dissenting views would be minuted accordingly : the development of strategy is led by the executives with input, challenge, examination and ongoing testing from the Non-executive Directors: good working relationships exist between Non-executive Directors and non-Board members of the senior management team, which areencouraged by the executive directors: and members of the senior management team draw on the collective experience of the Board, including itsNon-executive Directors.
The Board of William Hill acts as a collective unit.
However, in order to further optimise the performance and the governance of the Board, there are distinct and clear roles, which are explained further below.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 53 Governance through the Audit and Risk Management The proportion of women members of Role of Chairman, CEO, Committee, satisfy themselves that the Board as 31 December 2016 stood at SeniorIndependent Director Financial financial information is accurate and 29%, however, with the appointment of statements andNon-executive Directors that internal controls and systems of risk three male Non-executive Directors in No one individual on the Board has management are robust: January and April 2017, the proportion of unfettered powers of decision-making.
women members is anticipated to fall to through the Remuneration Committee, Throughout 2016, the Chairman, Gareth 20% from 3 April 2017.
The Board continues take responsibility for determining Davis, was responsible for leadership to monitor composition of the Board, and appropriate levels of remuneration for of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness while mindful of the considerable benefits senior executives: and in all aspects of its role and setting its greater diversity offers, it was deemed through the Nomination Committee, agenda.
Philip Bowcock, as the Interim critically important that the new three undertake the role of recommending Chief Executive Officer, is the executive Non-executive Directors appointed in the appointment, and where necessary responsible for the running of the business.
November offered the specific skill sets removal, of positions on the Board.
Sir Roy Gardner is the Senior Independent required to support the Groups strategies.
Non-executive Director SID and his main The appointments were therefore made Role specifications of Chairman, Chief role is to satisfy the function outlined in on the grounds of merit against the specific Executive, SID and other Non-executive the Code of being available to shareholders role criteria.
Directors are defined in writing so that their if there are concerns which normal role requirements are clearly understood.
The Company regards each of Sir Roy contact has failed to resolve.
The SID The role specifications are either included in Gardner, Georgina Harvey, Ashley Highfield, is also required to lead the process for the terms of appointment or are otherwise David Lowden, John OReilly, Robin evaluating the Chairmans performance approved by the Board.
Terrell and Imelda Walsh as independent and to chair the Nomination Committee Non-executive Directors, and Mark when it is considering succession to the Board composition Brooker is expected to be deemed to be role of Chairman.
During 2016, the SID independent on appointment on 3 April The Board currently comprises seven led the discussion of the Nomination 2017.
The independence of each director is independent Non-executive Directors, Committee when it recommended to the reviewed annually.
the Chairman and one executive director.
Board that the Chairmans term of office Philip Bowcock joined the Group as CFO be further extended see the report from Ashley Highfield was appointed in 2008 in November 2015 and was appointed the Nomination Committee for more and during the year, the Nomination as Interim Chief Executive Officer with details.
The role of the SID also includes, Committee and the Board reviewed Ashley effect from 21 July 2016, when James if needed, a process under which he she Highfields independence against provision Henderson stepped down as Chief might intervene to maintain Board and B.
2.3. of the Code, which requires that any Executive.
Mark Summerfield joined the Company stability.
term beyond six years for a Non-executive Group as Interim Chief Financial Officer Director be subject to particularly rigorous All of William Hills Non-executive Directors, on secondment from KPMG in August, review, and should take into account including the Chairman and SID, are but has not been appointed to the Board.
the need for progressive refreshing required by their role to perform certain Sir Roy Gardner was appointed as Senior of the Board.
The Board continues to functions to improve the effectiveness of Independent Director in 2014. regard Ashley Highfield as independent the Board.
In particular they: in accordance with provision B.
1.1. of the Throughout 2016 and up to the date of this constructively challenge and contribute Code.
Ashley Highfields nine-year term will report, the Company satisfied the Code to the development of strategy: end in November 2017 at which time he is requirements that at least half the Board, expected to step down from the Board.
scrutinise the performance of excluding the Chairman, should comprise Gareth Davis satisfied the independence management in meeting agreed Non-executive Directors determined by criteria detailed in provision A.
3.1 of the goalsand objectives: the Board to be independent.
Code upon his appointment as Chairman on 1 September 2010.
Board balance Philip Bowcock Gareth Davis David Lowden Georgina Harvey Imelda Walsh Leisure, construction International International business Media and publishing Retail and and finance regulated business and finance human resources Sir Roy Gardner Ashley Highfield Mark Brooker John OReilly Robin Terrell Betting and Gaming Online, retail International business Media and technology Betting and Gaming industry, international industry, international and technology regulated business regulated business William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 54 Report on Corporate Governance continued The Board comprises individuals with wide Board composition and approach business experience gained in various sectors of industry and in the public Composition of the Board as at 31 December 2016 sector.
The directors aim is to ensure that the balance of the Board reflects the needs of the Groups business and to Composition of the Board Length of service of Board members ensure a thorough consideration of the % % important issues facing William Hill and its performance.
Male non-executive 57% 03 years 29% Female non-executive 29% 36 years 57% Executive 14% 69 years 14% Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings Details of Board and Committee attendance during 2016 are set out in the table below.
All directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings.
Ad hoc Defined Audit and Risk Corporate Scheduled Scope Board Management Responsibility Nomination Remuneration 1 1 1 Board Ad hoc Board Committees Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 8 10 10 5 4 8 8 Meetings attended 2, 3 Philip Bowcock 8 10 10 n a 3 n a n a Gareth Davis 8 10 9 n a 4 8 8 Sir Roy Gardner 8 5 n a 5 4 8 8 4 Georgina Harvey 8 10 n a n a 4 8 8 2 James Henderson 3 4 7 n a 1 n a n a 4 Ashley Highfield 7 9 n a 5 4 8 n a 4 David Lowden 8 9 1 5 n a 8 8 Imelda Walsh 8 10 n a 5 4 8 8 Where a director was not in attendance, this was due to other unavoidable commitments, or because a director was unable to attend an ad hoc meeting which was convened at short notice.
Directors who were unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting received the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any director who missed a meeting received the minutes of that meeting for future reference.
In addition to attending Board and Committee meetings, each of the Non-executive Directors devotes sufficient time to the Company to ensure that their responsibilities are met effectively.
This includes preparation ahead of each meeting and, for the Chairman and Committee Chairs, holding planning meetings and discussions with the relevant executives or senior management ahead of a meeting to ensure that each meeting has been well-prepared.
The Chairman maintains frequent contact with all members of the Board between meetings and has regular meetings with the Interim CEO to keep apprised of material developments in the business.
1 An additional ten ad hoc Board Committee meetings were held during the year to consider a number of matters.
These included the review, discussion and authorisation of responses to the corporate activity involving the Group in 2016.
The attendees for the ad hoc Board Committee meetings differed, and the certain absences reflected in the above table were due to those meetings being convened at short notice when directors had other commitments.
In addition, during the year there were ten defined scope meetings of Committees of the Board established, for example to give final approval to the release of the Companys trading results, and to approve and conclude acquisitions.
The defined scope Committees comprised any two of the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee, the Interim CEO and the Interim CFO and there was full attendance for each meeting, other than one meeting convened at short notice at which the Chairman, Gareth Davis, was absent.
2 Philip Bowcock was appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer with effect from 21 July 2016 and James Henderson left the Board on the same date.
James attended all scheduled Board meetings for the period in which he was a director, however, as one of the unscheduled Board meetings held during the year was convened to consider his position, James did not attend that meeting.
3 As the CEO is a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Philip Bowcock attended all the Corporate Responsibility Committee meetings during 2016 following his appointment as Interim CEO.
4 Following a review by the Nomination Committee, all Non-executive Directors were appointed to each Board Committee.
Accordingly, with effect from 2 January 2017 Ashley Highfield joined the Remuneration Committee, David Lowden joined the Corporate Responsibility Committee, and Georgina Harvey joined the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 55 Governance knowledge of the business through a series of the evaluation which was circulated to Approach togovernance of individual site visits across the business.
the Board in advance for consideration.
atWilliamHill Financial This has proved to be very helpful and The results were then presented to and statements observations following site visits are shared discussed with the Board together with Conflicts of interest with the rest of the Board.
some recommendations for the Board's further consideration.
The composition of the Board means Each newly appointed director receives an thatmany of the directors have induction and each induction programme The evaluation determined that the considerable experience, and board is tailored specifically to suit the needs of Board continues to take its responsibilities level, industry and other roles outside of the newly appointed director.
During the seriously and that the Board has WilliamHill.
Whilst this brings benefits to year the Company announced that John shown great commitment, which was the stewardship of William Hill, controls OReilly, Robin Terrell and Mark Brooker particularly important as 2016 was such a are in place to ensure that suitable would join the Board, with effect from demanding year.
arrangements are made when a directors January 2017 John and Robin and April external role could come into conflict with Observations were made as part of 2017 Mark.
Each induction is personalised their duties as a director of William Hill.
the evaluation and recommendations and covers a range of general, industry and for further improvements were Group-specific information.
The induction In accordance with the Companies also made.
Observations and Act 2006, the Companys Articles of process also includes meeting members of recommendations included: the Board and of the Group Executive.
Association include provisions reflecting recommended practice concerning there are benefits to the business of Each director has access to all required conflicts of interest.
The Board has making an appointment in respect of information relating to the Group and to in place procedures for directors to the permanent CEO as soon as possible.
the advice and services of the Company report any potential or actual conflicts However, it is also recognised that it is Secretary.
The Board also obtains advice to the other members of the Board for vital to make the right appointment from professional advisers as and when their authorisation where appropriate.
and for this to be done it may take required and directors may, as required, In deciding whether to authorise a conflict some time: obtain external advice at the expense of or potential conflict of interest only nonthe Board should ensure that it the Group.
interested directors i. e. those who have no maximises the opportunity for the interest in the matter under consideration infusion of fresh thinking following Performance evaluation will be able to take the relevant decision.
the appointment of three new NonIn taking the decision the directors must The Board continues to recognise the executive Directors.
Also following the act in a way they consider, in good faith, will benefits of an effective evaluation of appointment of the new Non-executive be most likely to promote the Companys its performance.
The UK Corporate Directors, the Board should ensure that success.
In addition, the directors may Governance Code recommends that the momentum for longer term Board impose conditions orlimitations when the evaluation of the Board should succession planning is maintained: giving authorisation ifthey think this be externally facilitated at least every the interaction between the Board and is appropriate.
The Board has followed the Group Executive can be further this recommendation and the process strengthened.
This is particularly Information and professional for 2016 was conducted externally by important given new appointments Independent Audit Limited IAL.
IAL also development to both the Board and the Group provides the Company with software to Executive: and The Chairman, supported by the Company support Board performance evaluations the Board may wish to consider further Secretary, takes responsibility for ensuring when conducted internally and save for changes to better optimise the agenda that the directors receive accurate, timely this IAL has no any other connection setting process and the running of and clear information across a wide range with the Company.
The process for the Board and Committee meetings.
of matters relevant for the Board to external evaluation was established In particular, further time should be operate effectively.
In addition to receiving by IAL and reviewed and endorsed by given over to strategic discussions and presentations from internal management, the Chairman with the support of the to focus on certain areas of the business.
the Board also from time to time Company Secretary.
A representative The scheduling of some meetings should requests that external advisers provide of IAL led a structured evaluation also be reviewed and amendments briefings to support better awareness of programme principally comprising of considered to further enhance issues and to facilitate decision-making.
interviews with individual Board members.
the content of pre-reading papers Directors are also encouraged to attend Thematic questionnaires were prepared for meetings.
external seminars on areas of relevance in advance and sent to each director so to their role to further enhance their The Board is grateful for the detailed that the director could fully prepare in knowledge, and suitable training events are and insightful observations and advance of their interview.
A shorter but identified by the Company Secretary and recommendations provided by IAL.
similar process was also conducted with details are then forwarded to the directors.
A detailed plan is being created to further members of the Group Executive.
Finally, a consider and to make improvements representative of IAL observedameeting The Chairman is responsible for taking the against the identified areas and progress of the Board and meetings of the Audit lead on issues of director development will be regularly reviewed by the Board andRiskManagement, Nomination and and encouraging all Board members to Remuneration Committees in order throughout 2017. engage in Board and Committee meetings to better understand first-hand the by drawing on their skills, experience and specific dynamics of the Board and each knowledge.
In particular, the Chairman Committee.
The representative of IAL then has led a process whereby some of the prepared a detailed report on the results Non-executive Directors deepened their William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 56 Report on Corporate Governance continued Board members, including the chairs of Shareholder engagement Dividend Policy and the Remuneration, Nomination, Audit Distributions Each year, the Director of Investor and Risk Management, and Corporate Relations prepares a scheduled The Board closely monitors the Responsibility Committees, attended programme of contact between the appropriateness of its stated policy on the 2016 AGM meeting and intend to Company and its largest institutional dividend payments, dividend cover, and its attend the 2017 AGM to be available to investors.
This supports a regular capital structure and allocation priorities answer questions.
At the conclusion of the dialogue with the Companys institutional as cyclical agenda items.
Each proposed formal AGM, shareholders are provided shareholders, where the CEO and CFO dividend payment is also specifically with an opportunity to discuss business meet with investors to discuss the business reviewed in the context of the Company's matters informally with the directors and further.
Great care is exercised, however, distributable reserves, prior to payment other senior managers in the business.
during such meetings to ensure that any to shareholders following the Group's half This provides the Company with a further price sensitive information is not disclosed and full year results.
Further information opportunity to understand and respond as such information is only released at regarding the strategic rationale for tothe views of the shareholders.
the same time to all shareholders, in decisions taken with respect to both 2016 In order that shareholders are aware of the accordance with the requirements of the dividend payments can be found in the other shareholders voting intentions, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Strategic Report on page 2. details of proxy votes for the AGM held in Presentations are also provided to The Board also committed to a share 2016 were made available at the general institutional shareholders and analysts repurchase programme in February meeting and were published following the following the publication of the Groups 2016, under which 95m was returned to meeting on both the Companys website financial results or for other selected shareholders in the financial year ended and to the London Stock Exchange.
Each of topics in respect of the business.
The decision to approve the resolutions at the AGM held in 2016 such presentations are made available the share repurchase programme was was passed with the requisite level of on the Groups corporate website, taken as the Board determined that the approval, and the Board considers that www.
com, for a period Company was able to increase its capital there was a high level of support for each following the event.
efficiency without compromising its resolution.
As such, it was deemed that ability to continue investing in its growth no additional disclosure was needed to The Chairman is available to discuss strategies.
As a result of that programme, be made regarding the reasons for votes strategy and governance issues with an aggregated total of 203.4m was cast against and that it was not necessary shareholders and Sir Roy Gardner, as distributed to shareholders during the to take any additional action in respectof the Senior Independent Non-executive financial year, under the repurchase votes cast against.
Director, is available to shareholders if programme itself and dividend payments.
they have concerns that have not been, A separate resolution is proposed on each or cannot be, addressed through the The Board will continue to review substantially separate issue.
It is intended Chairman, CEO or CFO.
application of its policy to both dividend to continue with these practices for 2017 payments and dividend cover, but does and for future shareholder meetings.
Meetings between the Chairman, CEO not anticipate that any policy changes It is planned to post the Notice of the and or the CFO and shareholders can be will be necessary in the forthcoming 2017 2017 AGM to shareholders with the 2016 held on request to discuss governance and financial year in the context of the Group's Annual Report and Accounts at least corporate responsibility issues generally.
projected financial performance and 20 working days prior to the date of the The Chairman and CEO facilitated a outlook for its primary markets, or indeed meeting.
The website also contains the number of meetings with key investors for the foreseeable future.
All reviews Notice of General Meeting and supporting during 2016 as part of the ongoing contact will encompass periodic assessments of explanatory notes.
programme and also to gauge opinion and the future profitability of the business, levels of support for potential corporate The Articles of Association of the Company and asset valuations, as necessary, in activity involving the Group in the year.
require that any newly appointed accordance with best practice.
director will be subject to election at the The Group also obtains feedback from its following AGM.
In accordance with the corporate brokers and its investor relations The Annual General Meeting provisions of the Code, the Board has adviser on the views of institutional agreed that all directors will be subject The Board continues to consider the investors on a non-attributable basis to annual re-election by shareholders.
AGM as an important opportunity to and the CEO and or CFO, supported Directors will accordingly be elected or communicate directly with all shareholders.
by the Director of Investor Relations, re-elected by shareholders passing an At the AGM in 2016, the Chairman and communicate the issues and concerns ordinary resolution at a general meeting.
the former CEO took the opportunity to of major shareholders to the Board.
summarise William Hills performance As a matter of routine, the Board receives and achievements in the prior year and regular reports from the Director of toprovide a business update.
Investor Relations and from the Companys external advisers on issues relating to recent share price performance, trading activity and general institutional investor sentiment.
The Board also receives copies of relevant analysts reports on an ad hoc basis via the Companys Investor Relations team and other matters of interest in the media via the Corporate Affairs and External Communications teams.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 57 Governance It is vital that William Hill maintains At least annually, the Board assesses Board and corporate culture the right culture to perform effectively the effectiveness of the Groups system Financial The Board recognises that a clear tone in the regulated gambling markets in of internal controls including financial, statements from the top and a commitment to sound which the business operates.
The Group operational and compliance controls principles of conducting its business helps Compliance Committee, formed in 2015, and risk management systems.
This is to support positive behaviours within has consolidated its remit to oversee supported by an ongoing process for the the Company.
This is a responsibility of regulatory compliance across the Group provision of effective internal control and the Board, which is discharged with the under the responsibility of the Director risk management systems, which includes: assistance of standing committees and of Regulatory Affairs, Andrew Lyman.
regular scheduled meetings of the senior management as needed.
Meetings of the Committee are attended Board and its Committees, the Group by the Interim Chief Executive Officer From the point of recruitment, all staff Executive and Business Reviews for which ensures that Board-level views are made aware of existing Company each business unit.
This provides regular on the culture of compliance within the policies and codes which are designed opportunities to assess performance organisation are communicated directly toencourage and support good conduct.
and potential risks: to those responsible for compliance within Reward mechanisms are also designed established structures and delegations the business.
Committee meetings are to incentivise good behaviours and good of authorities which set out also attended by the Head of Risk & Audit performance and not to encourage responsibilities and levels of authority: and this helps to support a more holistic excessive risk-taking.
In particular, malus view of regulatory compliance as part of ongoing procedures, including those and clawback provisions exist in the the business framework of operational already described, which are in place to bonus and incentive arrangements for controls and risk management.
manage perceived risks: the executive directors and for other executive management.
This is more fully regular reports to the Audit and Risk Approach to risk management explained in the Remuneration Report.
Management Committee which inform Other levels of management have reward the Committee on the adequacy and The section Managing our Risks mechanisms which are designed to effectiveness of internal control systems outlines the Boards approach to the promote our corporate behaviours and and significant control issues: management of risks within the business strong personal performance.
the continuous Group-wide process and summarises the principal risks facing for formally identifying, evaluating and the business.
The sections below provide A formal whistle-blowing policy and managing the principal risks to the procedure for staff to raise issues further detail on the Boards actions to achievement of the Groups objectives: monitor the Companys risk management regarding possible improprieties is already in place.
During 2016, the Audit and Risk and internal control.
The work of the Board reports to the Audit and Risk in this regard is supported by the Audit Management Committee continued Management Committee on the to monitor the use of the Groups and Risk Management Committee and results of internal audit reviews, work further details of the activities undertaken whistle-blowing arrangements and was undertaken by other departments and satisfied that appropriate actions were by the Committee to support the risk where needed reviews undertaken management framework is provided in the being taken.
Additionally, to support the by external third parties on behalf of Groups response to the Modern Slavery report which appears on pages 60 to 63. management: and Act see the reportfromthe Corporate managements controls selfResponsibility Committee, the whistleInternal control assessment.
This provides for a blowing arrangements were extended to comprehensive bottom-up process The Board has overall responsibility address the risk of modern slavery in the for key managers throughout the for the Groups internal control Groups supply chain.
organisation to confirm compliance with systems and for monitoring their material operational matters.
The Company also continues to operate effectiveness.
Executive directors and and refine its clear policies and procedures The Groups internal control systems senior management are responsible for to prevent, detect and to report suspected are designed to manage, rather than making sure that risks are understood fraud and money laundering, all under eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the and they arealso responsible for the the supervision of the Audit and Risk Groups objectives, and can only provide implementation, monitoring and Management Committee.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance maintenance of the internal control against material misstatement or loss.
systems, which are subject to regular The Company also has a robust policy in In assessing what constitutes reasonable review.
The Group Risk and Audit function place regarding anti-bribery and corruption assurance, the Board considers the administers a process of control selfwhich is communicated to employees.
materiality of financial and non-financial assessment recording the operation of key The policy is reviewed periodically by the risks and the relationship between controls in every business unit throughout Audit and Risk Management Committee the cost of, and benefit from, internal the Group.
and it requires strict adherence to good control systems.
The Board monitors the ongoing process The Board regularly reviews the actual by which critical risks to the business and forecast performance of the business are identified, evaluated and managed.
compared with the annual plan, as well This process is consistent with the FRCs as other key performance indicators Guidance on Risk Management, Internal both financial and non-financial.
Control and Related Financial and Business Forecast performance is revised during Reporting published in September 2014. the year as necessary, taking into account performance for the year-to-date and performance going forward.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 58 Report on Corporate Governance continued Lines of responsibility and delegated The Board uses the control and risk The Groups financial and operational authorities are clearly defined.
The Groups management processes to identify and controls and associated procedures are policies and procedures are regularly manage any significant risks arising from subject to periodic review to ensure that updated and distributed throughout the social, environmental and ethical issues.
they remain robust and fit for purpose.
The Audit and Risk Management Further details of the Groups corporate The Group Risk and Audit functions work Committee receives reports on a regular responsibility practices are described on is focused on areas of greatest risk to the basis on compliance with the Groups pages 64 to 65.
Group, as determined by: policies and procedures.
Risks and opportunities are also embedded a structured risk assessment process The directors have undertaken a review of for consideration where key decisions involving executive directors and senior the effectiveness of the Groups system and approvals are required by the Board.
management: and of risk management and internal control.
In particular, part of the annual operating ongoing reviews to take into account This covered material controls, including plan considers key risks and opportunities new areas of focus due to any material controls over operational, financial and which may impact upon the business emerging issues which may arise during regulatory matters.
The review spanned over the near term.
the full financial year and the controls year the Board considers and approves a The Audit and Risk Management subject to the review operated during the five-year strategic plan which reflects the Committee reviewed an assessment financial year.
As with many large, complex Companys strategy and the environment of the coverage of corporate level risks and multi-jurisdictional organisations, it in which the business operates.
Risks are through the internal audits undertaken was necessary for the Group to introduce included as part of the consideration of for the year.
The assessment helped additional controls and further strengthen the five-year plan to provide a longer-term to support the Boards determination existing controls during the year to support assessment on issues which may impact that an appropriate review had been operational initiatives, as a result of review the business.
undertaken of the effectiveness of the findings, and also to keep pace with best A key tool to ensure effective ongoing risk Companys system of risk management practice guidance.
Specifically steps have management throughout the business is and internal controls, including principal been taken to formalise certain controls to ensure that the executive directors are risks and key controls.
The Group Audit within William Hill Online, including the sufficiently involved and have oversight of and Risk function also prepares an annual gaming environment as this was flagged the material aspects of the operation of plan for the forthcoming financial year as an area for improvement in the prior each business unit.
This is accomplished which is approved by the Audit and Risk year.
The Audit and Risk Management through regular interactions between each Management Committee and is then Committee were made aware of relevant business unit with the executive directors, reviewed in greater detail on a quartercontrol issues arising throughout the including regular scheduled Business by-quarter basis during the financial period and there is a robust process to Reviews which are held with the respective year, allowing for further refinement as capture, track and approve actions taken to business unit Managing Director and other necessary.
In addition, during 2016 the remediate issues identified.
The directors senior business unit managers throughout Group Risk and Audit function provided confirm that no significant failings or the year.
The Business Review meetings ongoing assurance to management weaknesses were identified as a result of review all material operational aspects of and the Audit and Risk Management the review that may significantly impact the business unit, including risks.
Committee in respect of a number of the financial statements.
significant internal projects and also by Internal Audit conducting independent post-investment Assessment of risk reviews in respect of recent business The Group Risk and Audit function reviews A corporate risk register is maintained and acquisitions investments.
the extent to which systems of internal is regularly updated following detailed control are effective, are adequate to The Director of Risk and Audit reports review by the Group Risk and Audit manage the Groups significant risks, regularly to the Audit and Risk function and senior management during safeguard the Groups assets and, in Management Committee on work the year.
The register was discussed conjunction with the Company Secretary, undertaken, the results of audit reviews, with the Group Executive and has aim to ensure compliance with legal and the adequacy of the Internal Audit been approved by the Audit and Risk regulatory requirements.
It provides functions resources and on progress Management Committee and the Board.
ongoing independent and objective against the annual audit plan.
The Director The register records the key risks facing the assurance on risks and controls to the Audit of Risk and Audit also reports regularly business, the assessment of the likelihood and Risk Management Committee, the on the actions taken by management in of the risks crystallising and their potential Board and to senior management.
response to audit reviews and this process materiality, and the Groups response to provided the Audit and Risk Management each risk.
Responsibility for management Committee with additional assurance that of the risks is attributed to senior timely actions were being taken in response management and management remain to audit reviews.
The role of the Group Risk aware of the risks facing the business and and Audit department and the scope of its operate in a risk aware manner.
work continue to evolve, to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 59 Governance Going concern Board Committees Remuneration Financial A full description of the Groups business The Audit and Risk Management The Directors Remuneration Report is set statements activities, financial position, cash flows, Committee, the Corporate Responsibility out on pages 68 to 89. liquidity position, committed facilities Committee, the Nomination Committee, and borrowing position, together with and the Remuneration Committee Statement ofCompliance the factors likely to affect its future are standing committees of the The Board supports the comply or explain development and performance, is set Board.
The terms of reference of the approach set out in the UK Corporate out in the Strategic Report, including the Committees are available upon request Governance Code the Code, which forms Financial Review and in notes 22 and 23 to or via the Groups corporate website part of the Boards governance processes.
com and are regularly The Code is issued by the Financial reviewed by the relevant Committee and As highlighted in notes 22 and 23 to the Reporting Council FRC and is available the Board.
All Committees have access to financial statements, the Group meets its on the FRCs website at www.
independent expert advice as necessary.
day-to-day working capital requirements This report has been prepared against Appointments to Board Committees are from the positive cash flows generated the version of the Code published in 2014, for three-year terms extendable by no by its trading activities and its available which is applicable forWilliam Hills 2016 more than two additional three-year terms.
These are supplemented financial year.
when required by additional drawings Philip Bowcock also chairs the Group Under the Codes comply or explain under the Groups revolving credit bank Executive, which meets monthly apart approach, this permits listed companies loan facilities, which are committed until from August and includes the Companys some flexibility and the opportunity May 2019.
Whilst there are a number of key senior managers who report to the to adopt governance arrangements risks to the Groups trading performance, CEO.
In addition to the monthly meetings, otherwisethan in accordance with the as summarised in the 'Managing our risks' weekly conference calls are held by the provisions of the Code, where the Board section on pages 40 to 45, the Group is Group Executive to ensure each member feels this is appropriate for the good confident of its ability to access sources of is up to date on recent performance running of the business.
funding in the medium term.
The Group and other major operational matters.
issued 350m of corporate bonds in May The Group Executive retains oversight The Board can report full compliance 2016, the proceeds of which were used to on issues affecting the day-to-day with the Code during the whole of 2016, redeem 300m of corporate bonds which management of the Groups operations, with the exception of Code provision matured in November 2016.
The new and also reviews certain matters prior to C. 3.7 which recommends that FTSE 350 bonds are due for redemption in 2023.
Board or Board Committee consideration.
companies should put the external audit The Groups strategic forecasts, based on Members and regular attendees at the contract out to tender at least every ten reasonable assumptions, indicate that the Group Executive meetings are: years.
The report from the Audit and Risk Group should be able to operate within the Management Committee further explains Philip Bowcock level of its currently available and expected the Boards undertaking to complete a Interim Chief Executive Officer future facilities and its banking covenants formal tender of the external audit by Joe Asher for the period of the strategic forecast.
no later than 2019, with the intention to CEO William Hill US appoint a different external auditor.
After making enquiries and after Robin Chhabra consideration of the Groups existing The Board has reviewed the FRCs updated Group Director of Strategy and operations, cash flow forecasts and version of the Code which was issued Corporate Development assessment of business, regulatory in April 2016.
The updated Code applies Nicola Frampton and financing risks, the directors have a to accounting periods beginning on or Director, UK Retail reasonable expectation that the Company after 17 June 2016 and is therefore not and the Group have adequate resources Cem Miralay applicable to the period covered by this to continue in operational existence for Chief Customer Officer report.
However, the Boards view is that the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Karen Myers no further changes are required to the directors confirm that they continue to governance structures or processes as a Group Human Resources Director adopt the going concern basis in preparing result of the updated Code, which will be Crispin Nieboer the Annual Report and Accounts.
applicable for the 2017 financial year.
Managing Director, Online Luke Thomas Kevin OConnor Company Secretary Group Chief Information Officer For and on behalf of the Board Terry Pattinson William Hill PLC Group Trading Director David Steele Director of Corporate Affairs Mark Summerfield Interim Chief Financial Officer Luke Thomas Company Secretary Tom Waterhouse CEO William Hill Australia
