William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 66 Report of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee has been heavily focused on actively managing succession planning and changes to the Board in 2016, including recommending all new Board appointments.
The Committee will maintain its focus on the optimal balance of skills, capabilities and experience to support an effective Board, and continues to commit to improving diversity.
Gareth Davis Chairman, Nomination Committee In respect of the recruitment of a new Membership and meetings Nomination Committee remit director, the Committee prepares a Set out below is the membership of the A full copy of the terms of reference for the description of the role required.
An external Nomination Committee: Committee can be obtained via the website firm is appointed, taking into account the at www.
com or by request to firms ability to find suitable candidates.
The Committee ensures that the Gareth Davis, Chairman relevant firm subscribes to the relevant The Committees principal responsibilities Sir Roy Gardner industry codes on executive searches are to: Georgina Harvey including diversity.
make appointment recommendations Ashley Highfield On joining the Board, Non-executive to the Board for the appointment, David Lowden Directors receive a formal appointment re-appointment or replacement letter, which identifies the time Imelda Walsh of directors: commitment expected of them.
Mark Brooker devise and consider succession planning Once appointed, the new director with effect from 3 April 2017 arrangements for directors and, as undergoes a tailored induction and appropriate, other senior executives: and John OReilly familiarisation programme implemented with effect from 2 January 2017 regularly review the structure, skills, size, by the Company Secretary with input composition and balance of the Board from the Chairman and CEO.
Any potential Robin Terrell and recommend any proposed changes.
with effect from 2 January 2017 director is required to disclose all significant outside commitments prior to Matters within the remit of the Committee The Company Secretary acts as secretary appointment and the Board has approved are also on occasion undertaken by a policy requiring disclosure and approval to the Committee.
All members of the the Board, for example, discussions on Committee are independent Nonby the Board of all additional appointments succession planning and more informal for executive or Non-executive Directors.
executive Directors and the Committee is meetings with managers in the Companys chaired by the Board Chairman.
In order to Although there were changes in the outside talent pipeline.
commitments of some directors during ensure therearefully informed discussions, Non-executive Directors are appointed the Interim CEO and or the Group Human 2016, none of these were material to the foran initial three-year term, extendable extent that it would impact on the time Resources Director are invited to attend bya further two additional three-year meetings as appropriate.
The Committee required to commit to the Company.
The terms and conditions of met on eight occasions during 2016. appointment of non-executive and servicecontracts of executive directors are available to shareholders for inspection atthe Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 67 Governance During 2016, the Committee played an During 2016 and up to the date of this Main activities during 2016 important part in succession planning report, the Committee also: Financial The calendar of Committee activities and in recommending changes to the statements reviewed reports issued by Lord Davies below provides an overview of the key composition of the Board, thereby ensuring in respect of women on boards and by areas of specific focus for the Committee that the leadership of the business remains Sir John Parker concerning the Ethnic in 2016, and further explanation regarding well positioned for the future.
The Board Diversity of UK Boards: and the key events for the Committee during had endorsed all the recommendations the year can be found in the Chairmans considered and recommended to of the Committee during the year.
introduction on page 48. theBoard that each director be James Henderson stood down as CEO proposed for re-appointment at the in July 2016 and was replaced by Philip 2016 AGM.
Bowcock as the Interim CEO.
The search 2016 calendar of for a permanent replacement CEO was Nomination Committee then instigated by the Committee with the Board diversity and activity support of the Group Human Resources composition January 2016 Director and the external recruitment The Board already has a diverse range of firm Heidrick and Struggles Heidrick and Chairmans re-appointment experience by way of expertise, business Struggles has no other connection with Re-election of directors at the 2016 sector background and by length of the Company.
The Committee considered Annual General Meeting tenure on the Board, and the Committee the diverse and demanding range of Annual Report disclosures is well aware of its responsibilities in personal and strategic skills and experience respect of diversity.
We recognise the Review of the Committees terms required and prepared a role criteria for benefits that diverse viewpoints and of reference the permanent CEO position.
The search backgrounds can contribute to decisionfor a permanent replacement has included July 2016 making and also for the infusion of fresh both internal and external candidates.
thinking and perspectives from newlyInitiation of Chief Executive Shortlists were then prepared and appointed directors.
It is the intention succession planning and reviewed by the Committee which agreed of the Board to keep the benefits that appointment of Philip Bowcock as the most suitable candidates who should derive froma diverse Board in mind when Interim Chief Executive proceed to a series of interviews with the makingfuture appointments.
Chairman, various Non-executive Directors September 2016 and dependent on the foregoing, further As at 31 December 2016, 29% ofthe Board Update on Chief Executive assessments.
Further information on the was comprised of women, however, it is succession planning progress made in appointing a permanent anticipated that this ratio will fall to 20% Review of senior management CEO can be found in my introduction to the from 3 April 2017 when Mark Brooker joins succession planning, talent pipeline Governance Report on page 49. the Board.
We pursue diversity, including and gender and diversity programme gender diversity, throughout the business During the year the Committee considered and will continue to follow a policy of October 2016 the balance of skills and experience on appointing talented people at every level the Board and also making changes Update on Chief Executive todeliver high performance.
However, to support timely succession planning.
succession planning the Board does not believe that setting a The Committee concluded that the Board Consideration of Board composition quota is the most appropriate method for would benefit from additional digital, Consideration of potential Nonachieving a balanced Board or for any other multi-channel and gambling industry executive Director appointments and positions in the Company and the primary experience.
The Committee had also taken appointment process criteria for all of our appointments is that into account that Ashley Highfield, who they are made on merit.
was appointed to the Board in 2008, is due November 2016 to complete his nine-year term towards Going forward, the Committee will Recommendation to the Board the end of 2017.
As a result, role criteria continue to monitor the longer-term to approve the appointment of were developed and a search process was composition of the Board, the levels John OReilly, Robin Terrell and commenced with the support of Heidrick of senior management immediately Mark Brooker and Struggles and the Group Human beneath the executive Board positions, Update on Chief Executive Resources Director.
The search process and also how these support the strategic succession planning culminated with the appointments of John priorities and leadership needs of the OReilly, Robin Terrell and Mark Brooker, as December 2016 business.
The Committee notes the report announced in November 2016. by Lord Davies which recommends to Board committee composition review increase the voluntary target for womens The Committee aims to plan ahead for Update on Chief Executive representation on boards of FTSE 350 any future changes in Board composition.
succession planning companies to a minimum of 33% by With this in mind, during the year Sir Roy To note arrangements 2020.
The Committee also notes Sir John Gardner as Senior Independent Director for the induction for new Parkers recommendation to improve led a review by the Committee which director appointments ethnic diversity metrics on UK listed unanimously agreed the re-appointment boards.
The Committee will continue to of Gareth Davis as Chairman of the keep both reports under review, whilst Company for a further three years from all appointments continue to be made August 2016.
The Board also welcomed the on merit.
Gareth Davis Chairman, Nomination Committee
