Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Corporate governance Introduction from Richard Baker, Chairman UK Corporate Governance Code At Whitbread we recognise that corporate The Board takes responsibility for high governance touches all aspects of our standards of accountability and ethical business and affects all of our employees behaviour.
The 2014 UK Corporate in many different ways.
We are committed Governance Code the Code, which can to maintaining high standards of governance be found at www.
uk, was applicable to ensure that the Company is managed to the financial year covered by this Report with integrity and transparency.
and is the standard against which we measured ourselves.
In order to measure our Key governance activities compliance we undertook a thorough review During the year, there has been a high of our corporate governance arrangements level of activity with regards to corporate including our: Richard Baker governance.
Following the decision last year Chairman overall compliance with the Code with to postpone the external board evaluation, respect to business and corporate this year we undertook an externally practices: facilitated evaluation of the Board and its performance.
Further details on this process matters reserved to the Board: and and the outcome of the evaluation can be terms of reference for each of the three found on page 68.
During the year we have managed the The results of this review were presented selection process and transition of our new at the February Board meeting and have Chief Executive, and have also appointed now been formally adopted by the Board.
a new nonexecutive director, following a review of the Board composition and skill We were fully compliant with the Code sets required by the Nomination Committee.
Details of Details of the appointment processes can be how Whitbread has applied the main and found in the Nomination Committee report supporting principles of the Code with on pages 74 and 75. regard to remuneration can be found in the remuneration report on pages 76 to 91.
In addition, in accordance with the UK Details of the members and activities of Corporate Governance Code, we have the Remuneration Committee can be found prepared the longerterm view of the Groups on page 81.
Details of the members and going concern basis and the definition and activities of the Audit and Nomination identification of significant failings or Committees can be found on pages 71 to 75. weaknesses during the annual review of risk management and internal control.
Further Maintaining high standards of corporate details on this review can be found in the governance is vital to supporting our financial Audit Committee report on page 72. performance and protecting your Company.
We keep all developments under review and always aim for a level of governance that is appropriate and relevant to the Company.
Richard Baker Chairman 25 April 2016 Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 governance 62 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Leadership and the Board of Directors The Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined roles which are separate and distinct.
The specific duties The Board of Directors and division of responsibilities between the Chairman and There are ten members of the Board including the Chairman, Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and are Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director.
composition of the Board is shown in the chart below.
Chairman Composition of the Board Leadership of the Board and setting its agenda including approval of the Groups strategy, business plans, annual budget and key areas of business importance.
Chairman: Maintaining appropriate contact with major shareholders and Executive directors: ensuring that Board members understand their views concerning the Company.
Independent nonexecutive directors: Ensuring a culture of openness and debate around the Board table.
Leading the annual evaluation of the Board, the committees and individual directors.
Ensuring, through the General Counsel, that the members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Biographical details of each of the directors can be found Chief Executive on pages 64 and 65.
Optimising the performance of the Company.
We believe that it is vital for the Board to include a diverse Daytoday operation of the business.
range of skills, backgrounds and experiences, to enable a Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and employees.
broad evaluation of all matters considered and to contribute The creation of shareholder value by delivering profitable growth to a positive culture of mutual respect and constructive and a good return on capital.
The mix of skills and experience represented on Ensuring the Company has a strong team of highcalibre executives, the Board is outlined below.
and putting in place appropriate management succession and development plans.
Board experience Leading and motivating a large workforce of people.
Number of directors Number of directors Retail sector 5 International 8 Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board Travel and hospitality sector 2 Commercial property 2 for the Chairman and supports him in the delivery of his Marketing 3 Technology 4 objectives.
The Senior Independent Director is available to Legal 2 Human Resources 3 shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would be inappropriate to raise Financial 3 with the Chairman or the executive team.
He also leads the evaluation of the Chairman on behalf of the other directors.
Board responsibilities The Board is responsible for the longterm success of The Senior Independent Director can be contacted directly the Company and ensures that there are effective controls or through the General Counsel.
in place which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
All Board members have responsibility for strategy, Executive directors performance, risk and people.
The executive directors are responsible for the daytoday running of the business and for implementing the operational and strategic plans of the Company.
Nonexecutive directors The nonexecutive directors play a key role in constructively challenging and scrutinising the performance of the management of the Company and helping to develop proposals on strategy.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 governance 63
