Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Audit Committee report Role of the Audit Committee Main activities during the year The principal role of the Audit Committee During the year, the Committee focused is to monitor and review the integrity of the on the following significant matters: Companys financial results, to review the Financial reporting Companys internal controls and risk The quality and acceptability of management systems, to monitor and review accounting policies and practices.
the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and to make recommendations The clarity of the disclosures and to the Board in relation to the external auditor.
compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and Key responsibilities governance reporting requirements.
The key responsibilities of the Committee Simon Melliss Material areas in which significant are to: Chairman, judgements have been applied or Audit Committee review the halfyear and fullyear results where there has been discussion with and financial statements: the external auditor.
report to the Board on the appropriateness Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, Members of the of our accounting policies and practices taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Audit Committee including critical accounting policies and understandable and provides the judgements: information necessary for shareholders Simon Melliss Chairman to assess the Companys performance, oversee the relationship with the external Wendy Becker Business Model and strategy.
auditor and review the external audit plans Chris Kennedy and report: The regulatory announcements of the results.
Susan Taylor Martin review and evaluate the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management A going concern assessment.
Chris Vaughan Secretary system: A longerterm assessment of the viability review the internal audit function, assess its of the Group, considering the financial and effectiveness and consider its findings: operational position of the Group and the potential impact of the principal risks and review the Groups contingent liabilities: and uncertainties, as outlined on pages 48 review the speaking out facility and and 49. consider any matters raised, review the procedures for detecting fraud and review To aid its review, the Committee considers the systems and controls for the prevention reports from the Group Financial Controller, of bribery.
the Tax Director, the Director of Internal Audit and also reports from the external auditor The full terms of reference are available on on the outcomes of their halfyear review the Companys website.
The Committee looks for constructive challenge from Deloitte as Committee meetings external auditor.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and will hold additional meetings as and The key areas of judgement and estimates when required.
Meetings are attended by the considered by the Committee in relation members of the Committee and, by invitation, to the 2015 16 accounts and disclosed in the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, Note 2 of the consolidated financial the Group Finance Director, the Group statements were: Financial Controller, the Director of Internal Impairment Audit and other relevant people from the A full asset impairment review is undertaken business when appropriate.
As required every year and the Committee is provided with by the UK Corporate Governance Code, information on how the impairment values have the Board satisfied itself that at least one been derived.
Areas of judgement around the member of the Audit Committee has recent calculation of the discount rate used, the and relevant financial experience.
The growth rates applied, the sensitivities of the external auditor is also invited to meetings.
judgements and the impairments booked are discussed and challenged.
The process is also assessed with assurance provided from external audit that the process was robust.
The impairment values presented by management were noted and agreed by the Committee.
Whitbread Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 report 71 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Audit Committee report continued Asset lives and residual values Internal control and risk management The Committee reviewed the assessment of the residual The Audit Committee monitors the systems of risk values appropriate for the business and the useful lives of management and internal control.
In addition, the Committee assets as presented by management and agreed with their completes an annual review of the effectiveness of these assessment.
The Committee also reviews Group policy systems in March, assessing the risk management framework on specific groups of assets and challenges accordingly.
and policy, managements risk assessment and review process, and the monitoring and reporting of risk.
This review is Liability and onerous lease provisions completed in conjunction with an Internal Control Effectiveness The Group has a number of onerous contracts which are review from Internal Audit and Group Finance, and considers reviewed throughout the year and the level of provision all material controls, including financial, operational and applied by management is considered by the Committee.
The system and processes were A review of contingent liabilities is also undertaken and an considered to be robust and no significant weaknesses were assessment as to the level of provisioning required agreed.
A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company was carried out, considering risk appetite, and each Taxation risk was assessed and the level of assurance required was The method of calculating the Groups tax expense and determined.
Further details of the principal risks identified and liability and the provisioning for potential tax liabilities were agreed by the Company can be found on pages 48 and 49. considered.
Assumptions are made around the assets which qualify for capital allowances determined ultimately via the Information systems aid of a thirdparty expert, the level of disallowable expenses, During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the provisions for uncertain exposures or recoveries, the extent information systems improvement programmes.
In particular of rolled over gains, indexation thereon and the tax base this included internal audit reviews on our cyber security into which they have been rolled.
All have an impact on and the upgrade of our hotel systems infrastructure.
both deferred and current tax.
These were reviewed and The Committee also reviewed the skills and capabilities challenged with the judgements being noted and agreed.
within the IT team and the rationalisation of suppliers to The Committee also reviewed the judgements exercised on improve efficiency and to take advantage of technological tax provisioning as part of its annual review of key provisions.
In addition the Committee reviewed an overview of plans to upgrade the financial and accounting systems Defined benefit pension within Hotels & Restaurants.
The assumptions used to calculate the pension scheme assets and liabilities under IAS 19 R were reviewed and considered Speaking out facility and the Committee exercised judgment in reviewing the In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, the assumptions to satisfy itself that appropriate consideration Committee has continued to review the arrangements by and balance had been given to all macroeconomic factors.
which employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise The principal assumptions used and the sensitivities around concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial them were considered and the consistency in approach reporting or other matters.
The speaking out facility was from 2014 15 to 2015 16 was assessed, concluding with the reviewed during the year and it was agreed that appropriate same judgements reached by management.
arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation of such matters.
Fair, balanced and understandable In order to confirm to the Board that the Annual Report Internal audit and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the scope, extent understandable, there has been a thorough verification and and effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
approval process using the Committees knowledge of the During the year, additional resource has been added to the Company, as outlined below: Internal Audit team and regular presentations and updates were given to the Committee by the Director of Internal Audit.
the Annual Report is drafted by the appropriate senior Private discussions were held with the Director of Internal management with overall coordination by the Secretariat Audit as and when necessary.
team to ensure consistency: comprehensive reviews of the drafts of the Report and Accounts are undertaken by management, the Executive Committee and me, as the Audit Committee Chairman: a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by a committee of the Board: and formal approval of the Annual Report and Accounts is given by a committee of the Board.
Whitbread Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 report 72 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 External audit Auditor independence Following the competitive tender in 2014 15 and subsequent To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external approval by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, Deloitte LLP auditor, the Committees Terms of Reference set out the was appointed as the Companys statutory auditor.
An nonaudit services that are permitted in certain circumstances extensive handover with the former auditor, Ernst & Young, and those not permitted at all.
This prevents the auditor was undertaken to ensure a smooth transition took place.
being able to provide certain services such as internal audits.
During the year, Deloitte underwent a thorough induction process to enhance its understanding of the business, For certain specified audit and auditrelated services, the including meetings with management and executives across Group can employ the external auditor without reference the business and a number of site visits across the UK.
to the Audit Committee, subject to a specified fee limit.
Accordingly, Whitbread confirms that it was in compliance For the services permitted in certain circumstances, with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for agreement must be sought from me, as Chairman of the Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use Committee where fees are less than the limit specified, of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee or with full Audit Committee approval where fees are Responsibilities Order 2014 during the year.
A tender process would be held where appropriate.
The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the Following a review of the services provided by our current audit cycle.
We received from Deloitte a detailed audit plan, external auditor, Deloitte LLP, we can confirm that it identifying its assessment of these key risks.
For the 2015 16 continues to be independent.
financial year, the primary risks identified were in relation to revenue recognition, management override of controls Committee evaluation and defined benefit pension scheme, as discussed in the The Committees activities formed part of the internal Independent Auditors report on page 99.
These risks were review of the Boards effectiveness undertaken during the reviewed and the work done by the auditor was challenged year.
Details of this process can be found on page 68. to test managements assumptions and estimates around these areas.
The effectiveness of the audit process was assessed in addressing these matters through the reporting we received from Deloitte at both the halfyear and yearend.
In addition, feedback has been sought from management on the effectiveness of the audit process and targeted and Simon Melliss tailored questionnaires will be completed.
As this is Deloittes Chairman, Audit Committee first year with Whitbread, the Committee will be assessing 25 April 2016 the work of the yearend audit once finalised and formal discussion of the effectiveness review will take place at the Audit Committee meeting in July.
Audit Quality Review The Audit Quality Review team of the Financial Reporting Council undertook a routine review of the 2015 Ernst & Young audit files as part of their 2015 annual inspection of audit firms.
The focus of the review and their reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above the expected level.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I received a full copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and have discussed these with the Committee and Deloitte.
The Audit Committee confirms that there were no significant areas for improvement identified within the report.
Whitbread Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 report 73
