Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 43 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE reviewing and monitoring the external auditors Statement by the Chairman of the independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of Committee the audit process: and As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee, reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its I am pleased to present the Report of the Committee for duties.
Meetings of the Committee Composition and responsibilities of the Committee The Committee held four meetings during 2016 and also During the year under review, the Committee comprised met in February 2017.
Meetings are usually attended, by three non-executive directors, including its Chairman, invitation, by the Chairman, members of management, who are appointed by the Board.
I was appointed relevant external advisers and the auditors.
I report Chairman of the Committee in 2007.
The Board has taken to the Board after each meeting on the main matters note of the requirements that the Committee as a whole discussed at the meeting.
In summary, the main matters should have competence relevant to the sector in which arising in relation to 2016 were : the Company operates and that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant Assessment of the controls to ensure the ownership, financial experience.
The Committee is satisfied that the valuation and liquidity of investments: this includes Committee is properly constituted in both respects: I am assessing management reports on the controls and a Chartered Accountant and was previously a partner in procedures of external managers and the external  LLP and the other Committee custodian administrator and the review of the audit members have a combination of financial, investment work performed.
No significant issues were identified.
and other relevant experience gained throughout their Consideration of other matters in relation to the careers.
financial statements including appropriateness of accounting policies, revenue recognition, portfolio Mr Watson, who was appointed to the Committee in valuation and calculation of management fees.
2006, and Mrs Claydon, who was appointed to the Committee in 2013, were members of the Committee Interim and year-end reporting, in the light of the throughout the year.
Mr Perry was appointed as a requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance member of the Committee with effect from 22 February issued by the AIC.
T he Committee agreed the process, 2017.
He is also a Chartered Accountant and was timing and responsibility for compliance.
previously a partner in Ernst & Young LLP.
Details of our A variety of specific matters including whistleblowing, qualifications and experience are given on pages 27 and anti-money laundering compliance, data and IT 28. systems security and business continuity.
The role of the Committee is to assist the directors in In light of the relative simplicity of the operations and protecting shareholders' interests through fair, balanced the use of independent external consultants to advise and understandable reporting, ensuring effective internal on regulatory compliance and adherence to internal controls and maintaining an appropriate relationship procedures, it was concluded that no internal audit with the Groups auditor.
The Committees role and function was required see page 42. responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Following the appointment of WIS as the Companys AIFM, The terms of reference are available on request from the the Committee works with the Risk Committee of WIS, the Company Secretary and can be seen on the Companys Companys subsidiary, to ensure WIS compliance with website www.
In summary, the Committee is FCA regulations.
Particular topics in 2016 included the responsible for: regulations contained within the Client Assets sourcebook CASS of the Financial Conduct Authority's FCA and monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial the change of depository.
statements, including consideration of the Companys accounting policies and significant reporting Risk judgements: Management has identified Strategic Report pages 19 and 20 five m ain areas of potential risk: market and ensuring the application of the Companys internal investment portfolio, operational, corporate governance, financial and regulatory compliance controls a nd risk accounting, legal and regulatory, and liquidity, and has management systems using external consultants set out the actions taken to evaluate and manage these where appropriate: risks.
the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 44 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued The auditor has also detailed three specific areas of risk The Committee confirms that the Company has complied in its report: valuation and existence of investments: this year with the provision of the Statutory Audit accuracy and completeness of investment income Services for Large Companies Market Investigation and accuracy and completeness of performance and Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and management fees and has set out the work it has Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. performed to satisfy itself that these have been properly reflected in the financial statements.
Financial statements The Board has requested the Committee to confirm that The Committee has monitored the controls designed in its opinion the Board can make the required statement to mitigate all these risks during the year including that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced reviewing managements risk report at each meeting and understandable and provides the information and requiring amendments to both risks and mitigating necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys actions as appropriate.
The Committee considers that position and performance, business model and strategy.
management has carried out a robust assessment of the The Committee has given this confirmation on the basis principal risks facing the Company, including those that of its review of the whole document, underpinned by would threaten its business model, future performance involvement in the planning for its preparation, review solvency or liquidity and has taken appropriate action to of the processes to assure the accuracy of factual mitigate those risks.
There were no significant areas of content, and by assurances from the Remuneration and material judgement.
Going concern and viability Non-audit services The Committee has reviewed the information, The Committee has adopted the new limit on non-audit forecasts and assumptions underlying the Viability and fees that has been introduced with effect from January Going Concern Statements on pages 20 and 21 and 2017, from which time non-audit fees cannot be more recommended to the Board that they are appropriate.
than 70% of the average audit fees for the last three years.
External audit The Committee carried out a formal competitive tender Grant Thornton are not providi ng any non-audit services for the Companys statutory audit during 2016.
Four to the Company other than to provide the CASS report, firms were invited to tender, three of which presented to for which their fees are budgeted at 9,000.
As noted the Committee in May 2016.
Following the presentations, in note 5 on page 7 0, the Committee approved the the Committee agreed to appoint Grant Thornton and appointment of Deloitte LLP, while they were auditors to approved their proposed audit fee.
In accordance with the the Company, to provide advice on one-off withholding current legislation, the Company will need to re-tender tax claims.
The appointment, which was made on a onefor new auditors at least every 10 years and will have to off basis, was awarded on a competitive basis and the change its auditor after 20 years.
Committee satisfied itself that Deloittes audit teams and tax advisory team were independent of each other.
The The audit partner is Marcus Swales.
The auditor is fees incurred for this work during the year while Deloitte required to rotate partners every five years and it is LLP was auditor to the Company amounted to 11,000. proposed that Mr Swales should serve until the AGM in 2021, provided shareholders approve the continued Effectiveness of the Committee appointment of Grant Thornton.
BoardAlpha commented on the effectiveness of the Committee as part of their evaluation of the Board The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness see page 37. of the audit process, including agreeing the auditors assessments of materiality, and monitors the auditors Approval independence and objectivity.
The Committee will This report was approved by the Committee on 9 March conduct a formal review of the performance of the 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: auditor following the conclusion of the audit.
Robert Boyle In addition, Grant Thornton has been appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee to provide an assurance report on client assets in accordance with the FCAs Client Assets Sourcebook the 9 March 2017 CASS Report to the FCA in respect of Witan Investment Services Limited, to be completed by the end of April 2017.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
