Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Background The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Corporate Transparency Rules the Disclosure Rules require Governance Code will provide better information to listed companies to disclose how they have applied the shareholders.
principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate Governance The Company has complied with the recommendations Code, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council of the AIC Code and the best practice provisions of the F RC.
The provisions of the Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended Code, which was issued by the FRC in September 2014, 31 December 2016 except as set out below: were applicable in the year under review.
The Corporate Governance Code can be viewed at www.
The Corporate Governance Code C. 3.
6 includes provisions relating to the need for an internal audit The related Code of Corporate Governance the function.
As explained on page 42, the Company does AIC Code, issued by the Association of Investment not have an internal audit function.
Companies AIC, provides specific corporate governance guidelines to investment companies.
The FRC The Corporate Governance Code B.
7.1 includes has confirmed that AIC member companies who report provisions relating to the annual re-election of all against the AIC Code and who follow the AICs Corporate directors.
As explained on page 35, the Company Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC considers that this provision is inappropriate to the Guide will be meeting their obligations in relation to Company.
the Corporate Governance Code and the associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
The AIC The principles of the AIC Code Code issued in February 2015 was applicable in the year The AIC Code is made up of twenty one principles.
The AIC Code can be viewed at three sections cover the Board: Board meetings and www.
relations with the investment managers: and shareholder communications.
The FRC published a revised version of the Corporate Governance Code in April 2016 and the AIC published a revised version of the AIC Code in July 2016.
The Company is not required to comply with the new Codes until the year ending 31 December 2017 but the Board considers that the Company already complies with the provisions of the new Codes.
Compliance The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 34 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board Mr H M Henderson has been Chairman of the Company since 1.
The chairman should the Annual General Meeting in March 2003: he joined the be independent.
The Board considers that Mr Henderson is, and has been since his appointment, an independent non-executive director.
Independence stems from the ability to make those objective decisions that may be in con ict with the interests of management: this in turn is a function of con dence, integrity and judgement.
Mr Henderson has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Accordingly, he stands for re-election by the shareholders each year and will do so for as long as he continues to serve on the Board.
The Board is rmly of the view, however, that length of service does not of itself impair a directors ability to act independently: rather, a directors longer perspective adds value to the deliberations of a well-balanced investment trust company board.
The other independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, review and evaluate annually the performance and continuing independence of the Chairman.
Mr A Watson was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in February 2008.
As noted above, he takes the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman.
He is also able to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other directors, should this prove necessary, and to act as a channel of communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman has failed to resolve concerns or is inappropriate.
At 31 December 2016 the Board was composed of seven 2.
A majority of the board should independent non-executive directors and one executive be independent of the manager.
director the Chief Executive Of cer.
The Board is therefore independent of the Companys executive management.
All the directors are wholly independent of the Companys various investment managers.
In the opinion of the Board, each of the directors is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement see also section 1 above.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 35 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board New directors stand for election by the shareholders at the 3.
Directors should be submitted for re-election annual general meeting of the Company that follows their at regular intervals.
Thereafter all directors stand for re-election should not be assumed but be based on at least every three years, as required by the Companys disclosed procedures and continued satisfactory Articles of Association.
Directors who have served for more performance.
than nine years stand for re-election annually.
There are currently three directors with service of more than nine years: Mr H M Henderson, the Chairman, Mr Boyle and Mr Watson.
The Board has reviewed Provision B.
7.1 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Board considers that the annual reelection of all the directors is inappropriate to the Company.
There are two main reasons for this view: a it appears to place excessive emphasis on the short term and insuf cient emphasis on the need for an effective board to work together and to refresh its composition over time: and b there is some danger, because many small and nominee shareholders choose not to exercise their voting rights, that if all the directors seek re-election at once a minority of the shareholders could engineer the removal of the whole Board for reasons injurious to the interests of the Companys investors as a whole.
Therefore the Board considers it appropriate to continue to apply Provision B.
7.1 as if the Company were not a constituent of the FTSE 350 Index, a view which a number of prominent institutional investors have shared.
Every year the Board reviews its composition and the composition of its two Committees.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee oversees this process.
Further details are given under section 7 on page 37.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 36 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board New directors are appointed for an initial term ending three 4.
The board should have a policy on tenure, which is years from the date of their first annual general meeting disclosed in the annual report.
after appointment and with the expectation that they will serve a minimum of two three-year terms, but there is no absolute limit to the period for which a director may serve.
The continuation of directors appointments is contingent on satisfactory performance evaluation and re-election at annual general meetings.
Directors appointments are reviewed formally every three years by the Board as a whole.
None of the non-executive directors has a contract of service and a non-executive director may resign by notice in writing to the Board at any time: there are no set notice periods.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass past and current experience of various areas that is relevant to the Companys objective and operations, the most important skill-sets being investment management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
Specialist agents are usually used to assist with recruitment.
While the roles and contributions of longer serving directors are subject to rigorous review, the Board is strongly of the view that length of service is only one factor and that the shareholders bene t from having directors with a longer perspective of the Companys history and its place in the savings market.
There should be full disclosure of information Details of the directors are set out on pages 27 and 28.
They demonstrate a broad range of investment, professional and about the board.
commercial expertise and experience, gained overseas as well as in the United Kingdom.
The Board considers that it has achieved this aim.
The board should aim to have a balance of skills, biographical details of each director are set out on pages experience, length of service and knowledge of 27 and 28. the Company.
Board Diversity The Company welcomes the objectives of the Davies Report to improve the performance of corporate boards by encouraging the appointment of the best people from a range of differing perspectives and backgrounds.
The Company recognises the bene ts of diversity on the Board, including gender, and takes this into account in its Board appointments.
The Company is committed to ensuring that its director search processes actively seek both men and women with the right quali cations so that appointments can be made, on the basis of merit, against objective criteria from a diverse selection of candidates.
To this end the Board will continue to dedicate time to consider diversity during the director search process.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 37 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board The Board has established a process to evaluate its 7.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous performance on an annual basis.
This process is based annual evaluation of its own performance and on open discussion and seeks to assess the strengths and that of its committees and individual directors.
weaknesses of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman leads on applying the conclusions of the evaluation.
The Chairman reviews with each director his or her individual performance, contribution and commitment to the Company.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman and reviews the conclusions with him.
In addition, in consideration of Provision B.
6.2 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years, the Board concluded that, regardless of the size of the company, periodic external evaluation should add value to the process.
Accordingly, in 2016, the Board appointed BoardAlpha Limited to carry out an evaluation programme.
The Board reviewed the report from the BoardAlpha in March 2017 and the Chairman will lead on implementing those changes recommended by the report that the Board considered should be made.
The report did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
BoardAlpha Limited does not have any other connection with the Company.
The Board intends to appoint an external organisation to facilitate its evaluation in 2019.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 55 details 8.
Director remuneration should re ect their duties, the process for determining the directors remuneration and responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
sets out the amounts payable.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee 9.
The independent directors should take the lead in oversees the recruitment process, which includes the use of the appointment of new directors and the process a rm of non-executive director recruitment consultants.
should be disclosed in the annual report.
However, all the independent non-executive directors are asked to contribute and to consider serving on the subcommittee appointed to draw up the shortlist of candidates.
Notwithstanding this, the Chairman would not expect to lead the process of selecting his successor.
Directors newly appointed to the Board are provided with an 10.
Directors should be offered relevant training and introductory programme covering the Companys strategy, induction.
policies and operations, including those outsourced to third parties.
Thereafter, directors are given, on a regular and ongoing basis, key information on the Companys investment portfolios, financial position, internal controls and details of the Companys regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars, conferences and courses, if necessary at the Companys expense, and to participate generally in industry events.
A log of directors training is maintained and reviewed each year by the Audit Committee.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys Executive team and AIFM and of the Company Secretary, through its appointed representative, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
This principle does not apply to the Company, which is a long 11.
The chairman and the board should be brought established investment trust company.
into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 38 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles Board meetings and the relationship with the manager Typically, the Board meets approximately ten times each 12.
Boards and managers should operate in a year.
The Chief Executive Of cer who is himself a director, supportive, co-operative and open environment.
other representatives of the Companys Executive team and the AIFM and a representative of the Company Secretary expect to be present at all meetings.
The Board devotes two full days each year to meetings with the Companys investment managers and each investment manager sends representatives at least once a year.
The Chairman seeks to encourage open debate within the Board and a supportive and co-operative relationship with the Executive team and with the Companys investment managers, advisors and support staff.
The primary focus at regular board meetings The Chief Executive Of cer and the AIFM monitor investment performance and all associated matters.
The Chief Executive should be a review of investment performance Of cer reports to each Board meeting, at which investment and associated matters such as gearing, asset performance, asset allocation, gearing, marketing and allocation, marketing investor relations, peer investor relations are usually key agenda items.
group information and industry issues.
The Board is responsible for determining the strategic 14.
Boards should give suf cient attention to overall direction of the Company and for promoting its success.
At least one of its meetings each year is devoted entirely to reviewing overall strategy and progress is monitored throughout the year.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee 15.
The board should regularly review both the reviews the performance of and the contractual arrangements performance of, and contractual arrangements with the Chief Executive Of cer.
The Chief Executive Of cer with, the manager or executives of a selfis responsible to the Board for reviewing the performance managed company.
and the contractual arrangements of his staff.
The Chief Executive Of cer leads on the selection and monitoring of the investment managers and their terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and the AIFM.
The Company manages its own operations through the Board 16.
The board should agree policies with the and that of its AIFM, as set out on page 40.
Each investment manager covering key operational issues.
manager runs a discrete investment portfolio within the terms of the mandate given to them in an investment management contract.
Further details are given on page 40.
Shares are held by the Companys custodian depositary.
Boards should monitor the level of the share The Chief Executive Of cer and his team monitor the share price and the discount premium to net asset value on a daily price discount or premium if any and, if basis and he reports to every Board meeting.
desirable, take action to reduce it.
The Board makes use where appropriate of share buybacks at a discount and issuance at a premium in order to add to the net asset value per share and achieve a sustainable low discount or a premium to net asset value.
The Chief Executive Of cer and the AIFM are responsible for 18.
The board should monitor and evaluate other monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Companys service providers.
The Boards Audit Committee oversees this process together with the WIS Risk Committee.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 39 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles Shareholder communications The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is 19.
The board should regularly monitor the effective communication with the Companys shareholders.
shareholder pro le of the company and put in He works closely with the Chief Executive Of cer and there place a system for canvassing shareholder views is regular liaison with the Companys stockbroker.
There is a and for communicating the boards views to process in place for analysing and monitoring the shareholder shareholders.
register and a programme for meeting or speaking with the institutional investors and with private client stockbrokers and advisors.
In addition to the Chief Executive Of cer, the Chairman, or the Senior Independent Director, expects to be available to meet the larger shareholders and the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee is available to discuss remuneration matters.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting as a forum for communication with the individual shareholders.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Of cer, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee all expect to be present at the Annual General Meeting and able to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive Of cer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 94.
The board should normally take responsibility While the Chief Executive Of cer and his team together with the AIFM expect to lead on preparing and effecting for, and have a direct involvement in, the communications with investors, all major corporate issues are content of communications regarding major put to the Board or, if time is of the essence, to a Committee corporate issues even if the manager is asked to thereof.
The Board places importance on effective communication 21.
The board should ensure that shareholders are with investors and approves a marketing programme and provided with suf cient information for them budget each year to enable this to be achieved.
Copies of to understand the risk: reward balance to which the Annual Report and the Half Year Report are circulated to they are exposed by holding the shares.
shareholders, to those who hold shares through the subsidiary companys products and, where possible, to investors through other providers products and nominee companies or written noti cation is sent when they are published online.
In addition, the Company publishes a factsheet monthly and its net asset value per share daily.
All this information is readily accessible on the Companys website www.
The Company belongs to the Association of Investment Companies which publishes information to increase investors understanding.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 40 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Board of 10% of the Companys gross assets at the time of purchase may be invested in this portfolio and there are The Board is collectively responsible for the success of restrictions on the number, size and type of investments the Company.
Its role is to provide leadership within a that may be made.
framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Companys strategic aims subject to the Companys directors are provided, in a timely manner, with Articles of Association and to such approval of the management, regulatory and financial information that shareholders in general meeting as may be required from is clear, accurate and relevant, whether from the Chief time to time and ensures that the necessary resources Executive Officer or otherwise.
are in place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full The Board has typically met approximately ten times a Board have been defined.
There is an agreed procedure year and deals with the most important aspects of the for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters independent professional advice, if necessary, at the for and the monitoring of investment strategy, the review Companys expense.
of investment performance and the extent to which borrowings may be used.
Board Committees The Chief Executive Officer is responsible to the Board The Board has established an Audit Committee and the AIFM for the overall management of the and a Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Company including investment performance, business The membership of the Audit Committee and the development, shareholder relations, marketing, Remuneration and Nomination Committee is set out on investment trust industry matters, administration and pages 27 and 28.
The roles and responsibilities of the unquoted investments.
The duties of the Chief Executive Committees are described in the Report of the Audit Officer include leading on investment strategy and Committee on pages 43 and 44 and in the Directors asset allocation, on the selection and monitoring of the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 55. investment managers and their terms of reference and on the use of derivatives.
The Board, in conjunction with Meetings of the Board and its Committees the AIFM, sets limits on matters such as asset allocation, The number of formal meetings during the year of the gearing and investment in derivatives, within which the Board and its Committees, and the attendance of the Chief Executive Officer may operate at his discretion.
individual directors at those meetings, is shown in the table that follows.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to each meeting of the Board.
His report includes confirmation that the Remuneration Boards investment limits and restrictions and those and Audit Nomination which govern the Companys tax status as an investment Board Committee Committee trust, have been adhered to.
Number of meetings 12 5 3 The individual investment managers are each appointed H M Henderson 12 4 3 to manage a discrete portfolio in accordance with A L C Bell 12 5 3 guidelines which limit, for example, the markets in which J E B Bevan 4 5 they can invest, the size of each investment and the R W Boyle 11 5 amount of cash that may be held in their portfolio in M C Claydon 11 5 3 normal circumstances.
They are not allowed to invest in S E G A Neubert 11 unquoted securities, to borrow against the security of the portfolio, to sell stocks short or to use derivatives.
The R J Oldfield 11 3 investment managers take decisions as to the purchase B C Rogoff 3 3 and sale of individual investments and are responsible A Watson 12 4 for effecting those decisions on the best available terms.
The Company and the AIFM receive monthly confirmation Not a member of the Committee but in attendance by invitation for all from each of the investment managers that they have or part of the meetings.
carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of All the then directors attended the Annual General their investment mandates.
Meeting in April 2016 and the Boards Away Day in May 2016.
In addition to his responsibilities for the overall management of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer manages the Direct Holdings portfolio.
A maximum Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 41 Directors remuneration As described elsewhere, the management of Witans portfolio is outsourced to a number of third party The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors investment managers around the world.
There are Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 55. currently 11 such investment managers as well as the Direct Holdings portfolio which is managed by the Chief Accountability and audit Executive Officer.
The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 56.
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility under delegation from the Board and the AIFM for a number The report of the independent auditor is set out on pages of aspects of the management of the portfolio, including 57 to 61. asset allocation, gearing and investment in derivatives.
The Board has set guidelines in respect of each of these The Board has delegated contractually to external aspects within which he may operate.
The Chief Executive agents, including the various investment managers, Officer reports to the Board regularly on each of these the management of the investment portfolio, global areas, as well as on the overall performance of the custody which includes the safeguarding of the assets, Company and other matters of significance.
the investment administration, management and financial accounting, company secretarial and certain The in-house Executive management team of Witan other administrative requirements and the registration and WIS is responsible for managing and controlling services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after the relationships with the third party managers.
full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality The management team receives monthly reports on and cost of the services offered, including the control investment and compliance matters from each manager.
systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs During 2016, the investment managers were asked of the Company.
The Board receives and considers to provide detailed information on their operational regular reports from the investment managers and ad structures and systems.
The Board also receives each hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board year from its investment managers reports on their from its other contractors as required.
internal controls: in most cases these include a report from the relevant companys auditors on the control Internal control policies and procedures in operation.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The Chief Executive Officer makes regular reports to risks faced by the Company.
This process accords with the Board on the performance of and activity within the the Corporate Governance Code guidance, is subject to Direct Holdings portfolio.
In addition, the portfolios regular review by the Audit Committee and was fully in performance is independently measured, along with place during the year under review and up to the date those of the third party managers.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys system of internal control and The Companys subsidiary, WIS, is authorised and has conducted its annual review of the effectiveness regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide of the system, covering all the controls, including investment products and services and was appointed as financial, operational and compliance controls and risk the Companys AIFM from July 2014.
This review took into account structures required for these activities, including points raised during the year in the regular appraisal of a compliance manual and a compliance monitoring specific areas of risk.
However, such a system is designed programme, have been duly put into place.
to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against confidence any concerns about possible improprieties, material misstatement or loss.
whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
Its staff comprises In accordance with provisions C2 and C3 of the Corporate only seven people including the Chief Executive Officer, Governance Code the Board reviews the Companys who are well known to and have frequent formal and business risks at least once a year.
These are analysed informal contact with the members of the Board.
and recorded in a risk map.
The Company receives from its main contractors formal reports which detail the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 42 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Company does not have an internal audit function.
The Board encourages the Companys appointed Through WIS, the AIFM, it delegates to third parties the investment managers to engage with companies management of its investments and most of its other and to vote shares, in the best long-term interest of operations and employs only a small staff.
The investment Witan shareholders but in accordance with their own managers and certain other key contractors are subject investment philosophies.
Where applicable, it monitors to external regulation and most have compliance and the policies of the investment managers in respect of internal audit functions of their own.
The Companys the UK Stewardship Code.
Elsewhere in the world it investments are held on its behalf by a global custodian can be more difficult to vote shares as each country appointed by the depositary.
A specialist firm of has its own rules and practices regarding shareholder investment accountants and administrators is responsible notification, voting restrictions, registration conditions for investment administration, for maintaining and share blocking, including, for example, dealing accounting records and for preparing financial accounts, constraints.
Therefore, whilst the Companys investment management accounts and other management managers are apprised of the Companys approach to the information.
Their work is reviewed by an independent stewardship of its assets and the importance of sound accountant who also carries out some of the work that corporate governance, they use their discretion according an internal audit function would cover.
In addition, the to their knowledge of the relevant circumstances.
The Board receives from the investment administrator an investment managers report their compliance with the UK annual report on its internal controls, including a report Stewardship Code, or equivalent legislation, to the Audit from its auditor on the control policies and procedures Committee each year.
The investment performance of the investment managers, both individually and collectively, In respect of the direct investments held, the Companys is measured for Witan by a company that is independent Executive management maintains regular touch with of all the investment managers.
The corporate Company the management of the investee holdings and engages Secretary is a company with well-established experience when issues arise that are controversial or potentially in servicing investment trusts.
prejudicial to the interests of Witans shareholders.
An annual report is provided to the Audit Committee in The appointment of these and other professional compliance with the UK Stewardship Code.
contractors provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of internal controls that is balanced and robust.
Approval The Board and the AIFM will continue to monitor its This report was approved by the Board of directors on system of internal control in order to provide assurance 9 March 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: that it operates as intended and the directors will review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an H M Henderson internal audit is needed.
Chairman Stewardship and the exercise of voting powers 9 March 2017 It is the Boards view that, in order to achieve long-term success, companies need to maintain high standards of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Therefore Witan expects the companies in which it is invested to comply with best practice in corporate governance matters, or to provide adequate explanation of any areas in which they fail to comply, whilst recognising that a different approach may be justified in special circumstances.
In respect of UK companies, current best practice in corporate governance matters is set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
