Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 39 Group financial and strategic scorecard Achieved as a % of maximum Weighting Pay-out as a % of total annual as a % of total annual Performance measure bonus opportunity Threshold Target Maximum bonus opportunity Group Financial 302m 1 Underlying PBT 50% 32.7% 300m Strategic scorecard 227m Productivity cost reduction 10% 10% 200m 2% Like-for-like sales 20% 10% 2% Actual achievement 1 Underlying profit before restructuring one-off costs and tax, see note 1.4 for further details.
The Committee considers that the threshold and maximum targets under the Groups financial and strategic measures remain commercially sensitive.
These targets will be disclosed in a future report when no longer regarded as commercially sensitive.
Personal measures Weighting as a % of total annual Pay-out Director bonus opportunity Key achievements in the year as a % of maximum David Potts 20% During the year David secured a strong and committed executive 20% leadership team dedicated to driving the organisations turnaround.
His listening programme intended to inform and shape the new strategy made great progress during the year and enabled identification and work towards our six strategic priorities to strengthen and improve the customer experience.
David has stabilised business performance and rationalised our portfolio of stores with the closure of 21 supermarkets and sale of M local stores.
Work has also been completed to right size the organisation with changes to store support structure.
Trevor Strain 20% During the year Trevor exceeded goals in relation to cost savings, 20% working capital improvements, net debt reduction, financing restructure and disposal of our underperforming stores.
He has also delivered the first phase of our new internal IT strategy.
Trevor contributed significantly to the development of the business new strategy.
He has played a key role in assisting with the development of the new Executive team and communication of the financial aspects of our new business strategy.
50% of any bonus payable is deferred in shares under the DSBP which vest three years after the date of award.
Dividend equivalents will accrue and be paid on the shares that vest.
Deferred shares are normally forfeited if the individual leaves the Company before they vest.
