GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A COMPANY COMMITTED TO HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans statement on corporate governance It is now just over a year since Wizz Airs ordinary shares of 0.0001 each Ordinary Shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the UK Listing Authoritys Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges Main Market for listed securities.
In the first year of Wizz Airs life as a listed company, the Company reported record profits and the Companys valuation saw Wizz Air admitted to the FTSE 250.
As Wizz Air as a company has continued to grow in size, value and reputation, so Wizz Airs Directors have sought to ensure high standards of corporate governance.
As Chairman, my primary aim is to ensure that the Board provides effective leadership of the Company.
The Board recognises that it must continually re-appraise its involvement in the Companys business and also its own constitution and processes, so that its capabilities grow alongside the Company.
Reflecting this continuous re-appraisal, I am delighted to report that Susan Hooper joined the Board on 1 March 2016.
Susan brings to Wizz Air a wealth of experience from both her executive career, where she developed outstanding credentials in the leisure sector, and also her non-executive career, where she has a great deal of experience as a non-executive director of UK listed companies.
While Wizz Airs Board is made up of individuals with significant listed company experience, the Directors recognise the value of reviewing current procedures and processes in order to ensure that they remain appropriate for the Company as it grows.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2016, Lintstock Ltd. conducted a performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
The process enabled all Directors to give feedback on the Board and its committees constitution and processes, as well as the individual performance of me, as Chairman, and the committee chairmen and their own performance and development needs.
The results of the performance evaluation were shared with and discussed by all Directors and a number of actions are being implemented both to build on current strengths and to ensure that processes continue to develop in an appropriate way.
As I mentioned in my statement on corporate governance in the Companys annual report for the 2015 financial year, the Board had requested that the Audit Committee further develop the comprehensive risk assessment and mitigation reviews already carried out by the Companys Internal Audit function.
Indeed, while the Boards risk oversight has been appropriate for the Company to date, feedback given as part of the Boards performance appraisal suggested that the Company should develop a more structured enterprise risk management system.
That process is already underway, with the Companys management working with Ernst & Young to implement the enterprise risk management system during the course of the current financial year FY 2017.
I also noted in my statement on corporate governance in the Companys annual report for the 2015 financial year that there was one area where an exception to full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 had been approved by the Directors.
This exception related to three Directors, namely Stephen L. Johnson, John R. Wilson and me, who have been nominated to hold office as Non-Executive Directors by Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill L. P. together, Indigo, as contemplated by the relationship agreement entered into by Indigo and Wizz Air and which is described in the section headed Our key Shareholders below.
The Directors had agreed that, in order to retain appropriate expertise on the Companys Board and its committees, Stephen L. Johnson and John R. Wilson should remain members of the Companys Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee respectively until 2 March 2016 at the latest.
As contemplated, Stephen L. Johnson and John R. Wilson stepped down from their respective committee positions with effect from 1 March 2016.
At the same time, Susan Hooper was appointed to the Companys Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, bringing the constitution of those committees in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 the Corporate Governance Code.
I would like to thank both Mr Johnson and Mr Wilson for their expert and valuable contributions to the committees over the years.
The Companys first year in public life has seen a number of changes in our Shareholders.
While we have welcomed new investors to the Company, we have also seen some Shareholders who supported the initial public offering not only retain their holdings but increase them.
The Board thanks each and every one of our investors for the faith they have shown in the Companys business and, also, recognises the trust that the Shareholders have placed in the Board and senior management.
Over the course of the last year, a large number of meetings with investors were organised by senior management and, in addition, I have also spoken to a number of Shareholders myself.
Any concerns or comments raised were fed back to the Board.
Once again, I would stress that the trust that both investors and other stakeholders have placed in the Board is not taken for granted.
We will continue to develop our processes to ensure that our policy of ensuring high standards of governance appropriate for the Company is maintained in the future.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 30
