Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Strategic report 14 Relationships Our colleagues and partners We continue to focus on getting the right people in the right place at the right time to support our customers needs and to deliver our priorities.
HIGHLIGHTS Restructuring our colleague base Listening hard and responding quickly We have completed significant structural During 2015 16 weve completed customer People progressing from the change during the year across all areas of the and colleague listening programmes across shop floor to more senior positions in 2015 16 business to ensure we have the right number the business.
This included listening groups of people, with the right skills in the right place at 110 of our stores as part of our Fresh Look to serve our customers.
Customers and colleagues have 1,465 and the closure of 21 supermarkets we have shared their feedback to enable us to improve worked hard to retain the skills and talents of their store with the right local solutions for 2015: 1,650 our colleagues with over 40% being redeployed them.
We follow up on all actions raised into different roles.
and run weekly action meetings where Percentage of colleagues senior managers across the business come who participated in The restructuring in head office has resulted the engagement surveys together to listen and respond to the issues in over c. 800 roles being removed which have raised.
Weve seen both local and national allowed us to reinvest in frontline colleague improvements as a result of this work, for hours on smaller, flexible contracts, creating 72% example, a redesign of our colleagues uniform 5,000 in-store roles.
In addition over 2,000 store which following further colleague feedback and 2015: 79% colleagues were successfully transferred across involvement will be in all stores by the Autumn.
to My Local following the sale of M local.
Our two colleague engagement surveys Colleague Engagement Index: How engaged during the year received a record level of We have agreed significant are colleagues?
responses, including over 142,000 unique free changes to how we pay and text responses to each survey.
We continue to reward our colleagues see a high response rate with over 70% of our 76% colleagues taking time to participate.
Weve Hourly pay rates in retail have been increased to 2015: 75% continued to make it easier for colleagues 8.20 which is 1 above the National Living Wage to have their say online via their mobile or and highly competitive in the market.
This insight has been used to shape positioned us well for the implementation of our corporate engagement plan.
the living wage in April 2016 and the legislated increases in subsequent years.
During 2015 16 our measure of overall colleague engagement has improved from 75% to Salaried pay has also been reviewed with 76% which is pleasing in the context of the pay bands identified for all salaried roles.
difficult decisions we have needed to make Key Measures Our organisational structure has been Colleague feedback on restructuring of the business.
redesigned and simplified to ensure a maximum Colleague Engagement of eight levels from colleague to Executive Store colleague engagement index has Committee, every role has an updated job increased by 3.5%, with the key drivers being: 73% 72% 75% 73% 76% description linking to our business priorities.
increased confidence in the future of Morrisons: good reasons for customers to shop at Morrisons: and strong links to the local community.
Q1 Q3 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2015 16 Head office engagement index fell by 14.3% impacted by the restructuring programme Definition Colleague engagement is measured through our two during the year.
annual surveys in Spring and Autumn.
Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 15 Talent, training and development Our suppliers To help our colleagues find opportunities to At Morrisons, we pride ourselves on good get on in the business we offer a number of quality fresh food.
We work closely with programmes focusing on developing core skills, farmers and suppliers to shorten our supply craft skills, technical skills and leadership skills.
chains and make them more efficient to ensure Over 550 store colleagues have completed retail our food reaches our stores in the freshest or craft apprenticeships.
Our uniquely vertically integrated business model means we own more Accelerated learning programmes were launched of our fresh food supply chain.
This ensures we in stores and logistics as a new way of fast have greater control over supply chain visibility, tracking colleagues to gain new skills they need quantity and quality, and reduces risk as we at pace to secure promotion at the next level.
know where our food comes from.
Following the restructure in our retail stores We take pride in our heritage British born and we supported development into new roles bred so we buy British wherever possible.
by training c. 9,500 team managers and c. 3,500 100% of our Morrisons branded beef, lamb, duty managers on job specific functional and pork, chicken, milk and eggs are sourced in the behavioural skills.
Buying British reduces food miles, adds to We continue to build our talent pipeline the national economy, strengthens agricultural from within by equipping trainees with the industries and supports our rural communities.
knowledge and skills needed to be successful We have listened hard to our suppliers, and in a dynamic retail environment.
For example, This year we recruited 62 graduates and have 133 we recognised the challenges in the dairy graduate trainees completing operational: retail industry.
In October we launched Milk for and head office functions schemes.
In July, 22 Farmers giving customers the choice to buy a colleagues graduated from Bradford University brand of milk and cheese where a clear element achieving a BSc.
Hons in Management & of the proceeds goes back to dairy farmers.
Business in addition to 54 colleagues completing During the year, we conducted a supplier a foundation degree in logistics and supply conference where we launched 12 commitments chain from Hull University.
which laid out our ways of working with our Mastercraft competition Within our senior leader population, managers wider supplier base.
These commitments are Our annual competition, which challenges the with potential to become Directors participated specialist knowledge and practical skills of our now at the centre of our supplier relationships, colleagues in our specialist craft areas from our in a future business leader programme including ensuring we are more competitive and simplify Market Street, was a huge success this year.
a business placement in a local charity.
the way we work, with the aim of building The competition included colleagues from our eight trust and ultimately serving our customers craft trades butchery, bakery, fishbar, delicatessen, better.
We will continue to monitor ourselves Human rights and diversity wine, flowers, cakeshop and produce.
We work closely We pride ourselves on being a diverse with our suppliers to encourage and promote organisation.
We respect the human rights responsible practices throughout the supply of all individuals as well as the communities chain, helping to ensure sustainable supply for in which we work and are committed to future generations.
We are also a participant providing a workplace free from harassment in the Advantage survey, a comprehensive and and offering equal opportunities for promotion independent survey of over 400 suppliers views and advancement.
During 2015 16, Morrisons on the status of their relationship with major employed 54,013 men and 66,900 women.
grocery retailers in the UK.
In addition, 54 of our senior managers and six This year we have focused on how we buy our of our Board Directors were men, while 12 of products including simplifying our agreements.
our senior managers and two of our Board Our supply chain financing option also Directors were women.
The retail field team continues to be popular with our suppliers, with now includes seven female regional managers, take up continuing to exceed our expectations.
up from just one previously.
Our ambition is always to have strong, mutually This year we have continued our work to build beneficial arrangements with our suppliers, a workforce representative of the communities responsible and fair trading terms and practices we serve.
in line with the Groceries Supply Code Progress has been made against our diversity of Practice.
strategy which operates across all our talent activities, and will focus on addressing the identified gaps in our pipeline, will ensure a balanced slate for all senior promotion and hiring decisions, and adopt a standard assessment process so that our talent is assessed on an unbiased basis.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Strategic report 16 Relationships continued For overall governance, routine reports and We have identified some possible inaccuracies The Groceries Supply Code updates are provided to our Corporate with some of the refrigeration emissions of Practice Compliance and Responsibility Committee, figures from the previous year and are working The Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP Audit Committee and Executive Committee on to ensure these numbers are corrected in the Code applies to all grocery retailers with all aspects of the Code including developments future reports.
an annual turnover in excess of 1bn.
Essentially, about its operation or regulation.
We formally The Carbon Footprint report includes all major the Code creates certain specific rights and report details of activity over the year and sources of carbon emissions from the operation obligations that regulate our trading relationship specific complaints made by the suppliers to of the Groups supermarkets, manufacturing with suppliers.
our CCO, to the GCA, and the CMA at the and distribution sites and operation of its We actively engage with the relevant regulatory financial year end.
Some minor exemptions are: bodies, the Office of the Groceries Code Contact details and further information can Adjudicator GCA and the Competition & Subsidiaries be found at www.
Markets Authority CMA, to build best practice Bos Brothers Fruit and Vegetables B. V. in relation to the Code.
We have regular Dutch vegetable packer that deals with Reducing emissions meetings with the GCA and provide updates on energy locally: our activity, challenges in relation to the Code Wm Morrison HK Limited Hong Kong office and details on specific areas of interest for Methodology that deals with energy locally: the Adjudicator.
The information below is taken from our Group Wm Morrison Bananas Limited Carbon Footprint report, prepared internally During the year, we continued to build on a subsidiary that during the year was and independently verified by Jacobs.
We have our training programme for all supplier-facing operated by the minority shareholder reported for the calendar year 1 January to colleagues.
This year we ran two face-to-face Global Ripeners Limited: and 31 December for all years in order to remain briefing and feedback sessions for all buyers consistent with our historical footprint reports.
In addition, Neerock Farming Limited.
we ran bespoke sessions for colleagues in We have used the UK Governments Sites our supply chain team and a further session Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 for finance colleagues who work closely with A number of distribution sites are operated version to prepare these numbers, and our trading function.
We undertook a further by third parties who are responsible for the the latest emissions factors from DEFRA detailed review of relevant processes utilising energy and carbon, including Dordon, Birstall, DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for our Internal Audit team.
Building on audits Feltham, Bury, Willand, Droitwich, Clipper, Company Reporting.
in previous years, additional actions were Northfleet, Bathgate and Bunzl.
We have revised our historical emissions figures identified for continued process improvement following the sale of a number of sites and Sources including the strengthening of the compliance revisions to carbon conversion factors.
and monitoring team through the addition Fuel oil only four sites have fuel oil, which is of a dedicated and independent resource.
estimated to account for less than 0.1% of the total footprint.
Enquiries from suppliers on Code related matters were dealt with in accordance with the regulations.
Any matter not resolved Group GHG emissions for year ending 31 December directly with a buyer is escalated to the 2004 05 2014 15 2015 16 Baseline Prior Current Change vs. relevant Category Director and, if requested, Emission source Year Year Year Baseline to our appointed Code Compliance Officer Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities CCO.
Additional day-to-day guidance and Natural Gas 102,470 146,911 155,087 51.3% advice on the Code is provided by the Groups legal function.
Haulage 139,847 109,990 114,989 17.8% Business miles 4,511 3,643 3,743 17.0% During 2015 16 we have successfully worked Fugitive Emissions with suppliers to resolve the majority of complaints that have arisen with reference to Refrigerant 455,929 105,173 237,863 47.8% the provisions of the Code.
In summary nine Energy purchased for own use new complaints were made by suppliers which Electricity 798,596 756,595 672,451 15.8% were notified to our CCO.
In total, eight of Other those were either resolved or withdrawn during Staff travel 37,282 24,162 34,266 8.1% the course of the year.
The remaining matter Waste 36,730 22,197 20,876 43.2% at the financial year end has subsequently been resolved.
