Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Governance 28 Corporate governance report continued Executive Committee Executive Committee activities Audit Committee report in 2015 16 6 1 MEMBERS MEMBERS The Executive Committees focus in this 1 David Potts, Trevor Strain, Mark Amsden, Belinda Richards Chair, Irwin Lee, Neil Davidson, financial year was: 2 3 4 Darren Blackhurst, Gary Mills, Clare Grainger, Paula Vennells 5 Andy Atkinson driving trading performance: KEY OBJECTIVES reducing the cost base of the organisation: KEY OBJECTIVES Effective governance of financial reporting, internal identifying the Groups six priorities: Implementation of strategy and actions in respect controls and risk management systems: review of of financial planning and performance: day-to-day significant accounting judgements, assumptions restructuring the Leadership Team: management of operations.
and estimates: management of the relationship and approval of capital budgets: appointment of the external auditor: monitoring RESPONSIBILITIES and review of the effectiveness of the Groups Risk determining the draft budget and long Development and implementation of strategy: and Internal Audit function.
term plan: Oversight of: periodic review of performance against RESPONSIBILITIES financial performance, reporting and control: strategic objectives: The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee risk management: the responsibility for reviewing on its behalf and determination of principal risks for the Group: making recommendations to the Board as to: operational improvement programmes: and disposal of the M local convenience chain: the integrity of financial reports, including review and supervision of approval of the pilot scheme with Motor reviewing significant financial reporting operational activities.
issues and considering how these issues have Fuel Group: Making recommendations to the Board been addressed: in respect of: review of changes to speed up and simplify whether the Annual report is fair, balanced budgets and long term plans: the business: and and understandable: dividend levels: and review of IT development as the business the effectiveness of the Groups internal control ad-hoc events: rolled out the Oracle software upgrade.
and risk management system: Succession planning for senior management.
the effectiveness of the Risk and Internal Audit function: and 1 David Potts was appointed as CEO in March 2015.
2 Darren Blackhurst was appointed in June 2015. the independence and appointment of the 3 Gary Mills was appointed in August 2015. external auditor and approval of their fees.
4 Clare Grainger was appointed in September 2015.
5 Andy Atkinson was appointed in January 2016.
1 The Committee membership changed through the year as per 6 Dalton Philips stepped down in February 2015, Neal Austin, the attendance at meetings table on page 26.
Nick Collard, Martyn Fletcher, Mark Harrison, Gordon Mowat and Nigel Robertson stepped down in March 2015.
Casper Meijer stepped down in April 2015, Emily Lawson stepped down in June 2015 and Martyn Jones stepped down in October 2015.
The previously named Management Board was renamed as the Executive Committee on the 13 April 2015.
The roles and responsibilities of this body remained unchanged.
