Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 25 Corporate governance report continued Leadership Structure of the Board and its Committees PLC Board Chairman Key objective: Governance of the Board PLC Board Key objectives: Overall conduct of the business and strategy setting Corporate Executive Audit Compliance and Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Implementation of strategy and Effective governance of financial Development and Development and Advice to the Board on Board actions in respect of financial reporting, internal controls implementation of the implementation of the Groups and senior management planning and performance: and risk management systems: Groups policies on corporate remuneration framework appointments and succession day-to-day management review of significant accounting compliance and corporate and policies for Directors planning: monitoring of the of operations.
Reviewing and and colleagues including composition of the Board and estimates: management of the ensuring compliance with all incentives, bonuses its Committees.
relationship and appointment of those policies and ethical and and pensions.
the external auditor: monitoring governance standards.
and review of the effectiveness of the Groups Risk and Internal Audit function.
Throughout the year, the majority of the Board PLC Board consisted of independent Non-Executive Directors.
There were five Non-Executive 1,2 MEMBERS Andrew Higginson, David Potts, Trevor Strain, Irwin Lee, Belinda Richards, appointments made to the Board Irwin Lee, Neil Davidson, Paula Vennells, Rooney Anand Belinda Richards, Neil Davidson, Paula Vennells KEY OBJECTIVE Overall conduct of the business and strategy setting.
and Rooney Anand to replace the four Non-Executive Directors who stepped down RESPONSIBILITIES Development and approval of the strategy and key policies of the Group: Richard Gillingwater, Philip Cox, Penny Hughes Management of culture and values: and Johanna Waterous.
Monitoring of progress towards achieving all Board objectives: Monitoring of financial performance, critical operational issues and risks Board responsibilities by reviewing of performance against strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets: The formal schedule of matters reserved for Formal approval of the Groups Risk Register: the Board remains unaltered from 2014 15 Approval of all communications to shareholders, including the Annual and is set out in the corporate governance report and financial statements, half-yearly financial report and interim compliance statement which can be found in management statements: the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
Approval of changes to the Groups capital structure, external financial reports, major expenditure: and The Board is committed to a clear division Approval of membership of the Board on recommendation of the of responsibilities between the Chairman Nomination Committee.
This has been reviewed by the 1 All Non-Executive Directors are independent.
Board during the year and is also set out in the 2 The Board changed through the year as per the attendance at meetings table on page 26.
