Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 Committee key 23 N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee C Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee A Audit Committee Committee Chairman Board of Directors Andrew Higginson David Potts Trevor Strain Rooney Anand Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Senior Independent Officer Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Andrew joined the Group as Deputy David joined the Group as Trevor joined the Group in June 2009 Rooney joined the Board as Chairman and Chairman Elect in Chief Executive on 16 March 2015. as Commercial and Operations Finance a Non-Executive Director and October 2014 and became Chairman Director.
In June 2011, he became Senior Independent Director Experience at the end of January 2015.
Finance Director Corporate and took on 1 January 2016.
David is a vastly experienced retailer responsibility for the Companys Experience who joined Tesco PLC at the age of 16 Experience productivity programmes.
Trevor Andrew is currently the Chairman and worked there for 39 years.
He rose Rooney is a highly experienced retail joined the Board as Chief Financial of N Brown Group PLC and a to become successively CEO of its and fast moving consumer goods Officer on 10 April 2013.
Non-Executive Director of Ireland business, its UK retail stores FMCG executive.
Following a career Woolworths Holdings Limited business and then CEO of Tesco Asia.
Experience with United Biscuits and then Sara Lee, South Africa and McCurrach UK David was also on the Tesco PLC Board Prior to joining Morrisons, Trevor he joined Greene King PLC in 2001 as Limited.
Andrew stepped down as a from 1998 until he left in 2011.
Prior to worked for Tesco PLC in a number Managing Director of its brewery Non-Executive Director of the Rugby his appointment as CEO of Morrisons, of roles until his appointment as UK company.
He was appointed CEO in Football Union at the end of 2015.
David held several advisory positions Property Finance Director in 2006 2005.
Rooney is credited with changing Andrew was previously the Chairman with a number of private equity and and subsequently UK Planning and Greene King from a regional brewery of Poundland Group PLC and Senior consultancy firms and developed his Reporting Finance Director.
Trevor and pub business, to a brand-led pub, Independent Director of BSkyB PLC.
own retail concept to sell general began his career with Arthur Andersen restaurant and hotel operator.
In 2015, Andrew was an Executive Director merchandise.
He also worked on two and is a member of the Institute of he completed Greene Kings 770m at Tesco PLC for 15 years.
extensive retail projects in the UK.
Chartered Accountants in England takeover of the Spirit Pub Group, and Wales.
which made Greene King the largest managed pub group in the UK.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership N R C C N R C Neil Davidson Belinda Richards Irwin Lee Paula Vennells Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Neil joined the Board as a Non-Executive Belinda joined the Board as Irwin joined the Board as a Paula joined the Board as a Director on 1 October 2015.
He became a Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director on Chair of the Corporate Compliance 1 September 2015.
She became Chair of 1 September 2015.
He became Chair 1 January 2016. and Responsibility Committee on the Audit Committee on 1 January 2016. of the Remuneration Committee Experience 1 January 2016. on 1 February 2016.
Experience Paula is currently Chief Executive of the Experience Belinda worked in professional services Experience Post Office, a role she has held since Neil has had an extensive career for over 25 years, where she operated as Irwin has had a long career in fast April 2012.
Paula joined the Post Office in manufacturing, starting with a senior adviser in corporate finance and moving consumer goods with Procter in 2007.
Previously she was Group Northern Foods PLC where he rose strategy.
Belinda is currently the Senior & Gamble.
He rose to Vice President Commercial Director of Whitbread PLC to become Managing Director of its Independent Director of Grainger PLC, and Managing Director, Procter & having started her career with milk division.
He subsequently became where she also chairs the Audit and Gamble Northern Europe with Unilever and LOral.
Paula has held CEO of Express Dairies Plc and then Remuneration Committees, and a responsibility for the UK, Ireland, directorships in sales and marketing Arla PLC.
He has also been a Non-Executive Director of Aviva UK Life Denmark, Finland, Norway and with a number of major retailers Non-Executive Director of Persimmon & Pensions.
Belinda serves on the Sweden.
He retired in August 2015 including Dixons Stores Group and PLC and Northern Recruitment Group Advisory Group of Audit Committee after 30 years with Procter & Gamble.
She is Non-Executive Chair of PLC and the Chair of Leicestershire Chairmen at the Financial Reporting First Rate Exchange Services Limited.
He is currently Council and is a member of the a Non-Executive Director of Produce Governing Council of the Centre for the Investments PLC.
Study of Financial Innovation, a not for profit think-tank focused on research in financial services.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership N R C A N R C A N R C A N R C A
