Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Governance 32 Corporate governance report continued Diversity Relations with shareholders Matters dealt with elsewhere The Board recognise the benefits of a diverse in the Strategic report colleague base across the Group and is The Board is committed to communicating the strategy to analysts, investors and supportive of initiatives with the business The way the Group generates value and the to improve diversity at all levels.
shareholders on a regular basis through Boards strategy for delivering the Groups a planned programme.
objectives are described in the Business model The Company still seek to increase female on pages 4 to 5, and the Six priorities section The Investor Relations programme includes: representation in the Leadership Team to on pages 8 to 9.
The information regarding at least 30%.
This target has not yet been formal presentations of full and half the Takeover Directive disclosures are on page achieved and the Board recognise that more year results: 44.
The consideration of Going Concern is work is needed in this area.
Recruitment and interim management statements: described on page 44.
The Viability statement is promotion policies have been reviewed with a on page 19. regular meetings between institutional view to attracting candidates with a wide range investors, the CEO, the CFO and the Investor of backgrounds and experience, ensuring that Relations team in the UK and the US following the best individual for the role is appointed.
Annual General Meeting the full and half year results: Specific targets have not been set as it is All Executive Directors and Non-Executive considered that they may drive the wrong regular meetings between the Chairman and Directors attend the AGM unless unable behaviours.
However, guidelines are in place major shareholders to discuss any aspect of to do so due to circumstances outside of to ensure that the longlist for any particular the Group or its governance arrangements: their control.
vacancy at management level includes a attending key investor conferences: balanced profile of candidates.
Notice of the 2016 AGM of the Company is to communication between the Chairman be sent to shareholders with an accompanying Particular focus has been given throughout of the Remuneration Committee and letter from the Chair.
The AGM will be held at the year on increasing female representation major shareholders on remuneration the Companys headquarters at Gain Lane in in the Retail Team.
This work has seen a 13% rise policy and significant changes in Bradford on 9 June 2016.
Format of the meeting: in female representation in Regional Managers remuneration arrangements: or above.
a summary presentation of results is responding to enquiries from shareholders provided before the Chairman deals with the Progress on the diversity agenda is measured and analysts through the Investor Relations formal business: through regular functional talent reviews.
team: and These reviews consider the ethnicity, gender, all shareholders present can question the dedicated shareholder and investor sections age and length of service of all colleagues Chairman, Chairmen of the Committees on the website.
and the Board during the meeting and In addition, the Investor Relations team informally afterwards: At the end of the 2015 16 financial year the provides a regular update to the Board and Board included two women members, 25% of the Board encourages participation of feedback from meetings held between its total composition.
The Boards policy is that individual investors at the AGM: and executive management and institutional female representation should be maintained at following the meeting, details of the voting shareholders.
The Groups brokers seek not less than 20% and aspires that this should on the resolutions will be made available on independent feedback from analysts and be higher than 30%.
This policy will continue the website www.
com investors following the full and half year results to be considered as part of the Nomination Investor-centre generalmeetings meetings which is reported to the Board.
Committees regular review of the Boards The Directors recommend shareholders vote composition and skills.
in favour of each resolution, believing them Other areas of focus to be in the best interests of the Group.
The Committee also spent time reviewing Shareholders will be notified of the availability succession planning for both the Board and of the Annual report and financial statements Executive Committee as well as of the talent on the website unless they have elected to pool for levels below Executive Committee.
