Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 27 The evaluation asked each member of Executive Directors are included in the Groups Effectiveness the Board to complete a comprehensive performance appraisal process, which includes questionnaire based on their experiences setting clear and measurable objectives Non-Executive Directors covering the following key areas: and reviewing performance against those The Non-Executive Directors bring a varied objectives on a bi-annual basis.
The Chairman overall Board and committee effectiveness: range of skills and experience to the Group.
and Non-Executive Directors are responsible Details of their experience outside the Group the work of the Board, including the approach for monitoring and reviewing the performance are set out in their respective biographies to control, risk, strategy and transactions, and of the CEO, who in turn is responsible for on page 23. the regulatory environment: monitoring the performance of the CFO.
organisation and conduct of Board meetings: The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive During the year the Board also reviewed Directors, including the Non-Executive timing and content of Board papers: and considered the effectiveness of its Chairman, remain independent according to the principal advisers.
maximising its use of time: definition contained in the Code.
The criteria Board and senior management succession: used to determine independence are set Membership out in the corporate governance compliance training and awareness: and As described earlier in this report, the Board statement, which can be found in the investor overall Director performance.
has been strengthened by five carefully relations section of the Groups website, selected and highly experienced appointments.
Responses were collated by the Company www.
The Nomination Committee considers Secretary and discussed with the Chairman.
The minimum time commitment expected of that the Board and Executive Committee The review concluded that the Board operates the Non-Executive Directors is 12 days per year, contain the skills and experience necessary well and cohesively, although it was appreciated including attendance at the AGM, Board away in light of the Groups current activities and that there had been considerable change to the days and site visits, plus adequate preparation strategic direction.
composition of the Board, towards the end of time.
The Board is satisfied that each of the the year.
Re-election of Directors Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Group and The agreement to move to fewer but more All the current Directors submit themselves contributes to the governance and operations efficient Board meetings came into full for re-election at the AGM to be held on of the Group.
This has been confirmed by effect in 2015 16.
As part of their induction 9 June 2016.
After reviewing the outcome of the Board effectiveness evaluation referred programme for all new Board appointees, they performance evaluations, the Board confirms to below.
visited numerous stores, distribution centres that the contributions made by the Directors and manufacturing sites.
They have and will offering themselves for re-election at the AGM The Chairman arranges regular discussions continue to spend time with customers through in June 2016, continue to be effective and that between all the Non-Executive Directors customer listening groups to understand the Company supports their re-election.
including himself as a group without their views.
Directors interests The length and tone of Board papers will Board evaluation The interests of the Executive and Noncontinue to be the subject of focus during Executive Directors of the Company, and 2016 17 with a view to further improvement The Board arranges for its own performance, their immediate families, in the shares of and that of its Committees and Directors, to and ensuring that papers provide insightful the Company, along with share options, are and quality data in a concise manner.
This is usually facilitated contained in the Directors remuneration report by an external agency every three years with The performance of the Chairman is evaluated set out on pages 33 to 43.
At no time during the the most recent external review taking place annually by the Directors.
Appraisals of year did any of the Directors have a material in 2013 14. the Non-Executive Directors performance interest in any significant contract with the In 2015 16, the Boards effectiveness, and that are conducted by the Chairman following Company or any of its subsidiaries.
of its Committees, was the subject of an discussion with Board members.
internal review led by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
