Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Governance 24 Executive Committee David Potts Trevor Strain Mark Amsden Andy Atkinson Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Group General Group Marketing and Counsel and Customer Director Company Secretary See Directors on page 23 See Directors on page 23 Appointment Appointment Mark is a qualified lawyer who joined Andy was appointed to Group the Group and the Executive Committee Marketing and Customer Director in in February 2013.
January 2016 having held the interim position for over five months.
Experience Prior to his arrival, Mark spent 25 years Experience with a number of law firms.
Between Andy has been with Morrisons for 1998 and 2013, he was a partner four years in a number of senior in the leading national law firm Commercial and Trading roles within Addleshaw Goddard LLP previously the organisation.
Prior to joining Addleshaw Booth & Co, where he Morrisons, Andy held a variety of specialised in commercial litigation and senior commercial roles within Boots, was Head of the National IT Litigation progressing to Commercial Director.
Marks clients included many of Andy started at Coca Cola expanding the UKs leading companies, including his career to Walt Disney and retailers, manufacturers and suppliers.
Committee membership C Committee key Darren Blackhurst Clare Grainger Gary Mills Corporate Compliance and C Responsibility Committee Group Commercial Group People Group Retail Director Director Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Darren joined Morrisons in June 2015 Clare joined Morrisons in February 2009 Gary joined Morrisons in August 2015 as Group Commercial Director.
and was appointed Group People as Group Retail Director.
Experience Experience Darren started his career at Tesco in 1988, Experience Gary has more than 30 years retail holding a number of buying positions in Clare started her career at Asda and experience, with Stewarts fresh food and grocery.
In 1994, he was held a number of roles both within Supermarkets in Northern Ireland and seconded to Tescos French business Head Office and the Retail division.
then with Tesco PLC where he held Catteau before holding a number of She progressed through a variety of a variety of senior positions including category director positions.
Darren senior HR roles including Head of HR at Retail Director for Convenience and became Commercial Director for Tesco HBOS Lloyds Banking Group, where she Retail Director for the North and Lotus Thailand in 2002.
He joined Asda in led a number of programmes to drive Northern Ireland.
Garys experience 2006 as Executive Trading Director for differentiation in both sales and services.
covers all areas of retail and all formats, Food and in 2008 was appointed Chief She joined Morrisons in 2009 holding including supermarkets and Merchandising Officer.
In 2011, he joined a number of senior positions in HR.
Matalan as Chief Executive before Most recently, Clare was Interim moving to B&Q as Commercial Director Group Retail Director.
