Accountability Audit Committee Including the report from the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 July 2016 Committee effectiveness review The annual review of effectiveness of the Committee was carried out in April 2016.
The review concluded that the Committee continued to be effective and well run, that the work of the internal and external auditors was well co-ordinated and that their work was effectively reviewed and assessed by the Committee.
Ways in which the Committee could continue to deal with an ever increasing governance and compliance environment and workload in an efficient way were identied.
The report also highlighted Darren Shapland areas for improvement and these have been incorporated into Audit Committee Chairman ourpriorities for 2016 17 as set out on page 53.
Dear Shareholder Principal matters considered by the I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for Committeeduring 2015 16 2015 16.
As at 26 September 2016, the Committee was made The Committee has a rolling programme of agenda items to up of six Non Executive Directors as set out in the table on ensure that relevant matters are properly considered.
There were no changes to Committee membership below summarises the key items considered by the Committee during the year.
The Board considers that several members during the year.
The Board receives copies of the minutes of of the Committee, including me, have recent and relevant each meeting of the Committee and key issues covered are financial experience and that each member of the Committee also reported to the subsequent meeting of the Board.
is independent within the denition set out in the Code.
The key strengths and experience of each member of the Committee are Control Environment summarised on pages 42 and 43.
Members of the Committee between them possess significant international, commercial, Internal audit report retail, financial and human resource skills and expertise which Annual plan for internal audit can be applied and are relevant to an international specialist distribution company.
Fraud and whistleblowing reports This report provides an insight into the activities of the Committee Risk management report during the year to demonstrate how the Committee has continued Anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme to play a key oversight role fortheBoard.
Internal controls review The Committee has principally focused on maintaining the quality and integrity of our financial reporting, and monitoring and External audit plan ensuring the appropriateness of the Companys risk management Financial Results systems and internal control environment.
We have also overseen Full Year results and associated announcements the smooth transition to our new external auditors, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, and ensured that our governance standards are Auditors Full Year report tothe Committee maintained.
Further details of the Committees activities during Half Year results and associated announcements thenancial year ended 31 July 2016 are set out below.
Auditors Half Year report tothe Committee I shall be available at the 2016 AGM, to respond to any questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of the Review of the Annual Report Committees activities.
Governance Effectiveness review ofprevious external auditor Meetings The Committee met four times during the year as part of its Consideration of non-audit engagements standard schedule of meetings.
Meetings coincide with key Effectiveness review ofinternal audit dates in the Companys financial reporting cycle and usually take place the day before a Board meeting to maximise efficiency of Updates on accounting and corporate governance communication with the Board.
Attendance at these meetings is developments set out on page 43.
In addition to the members of the Committee, Terms of reference review the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer and the Head of Internal Audit, together with senior Review of effectiveness oftheCommittee representatives of the Companys external auditors, attended and Review of external auditors fees and engagement letter received papers for each meeting.
Other senior executives were also invited to certain meetings to present and discuss specic Review Items items.
In particular, the Finance Directors or other senior finance Audit tender transition managers of the Groups major regions periodically attended Committee meetings to provide the Committee with detailed Updates from regional Finance Directors updates relating to their region.
The Committee periodically meets separately with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit without the presence of Executive Directors.
The Committee also meets periodically with the Chief Financial officer.
Wolseley plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information What the Committee has done during the year An overview of the Committees 2015 16 objectives and how the Committee has achieved these objectives is set out below: 2015 16 objectives Achievements Ensure there is an efficient and Effective and efficient transition from PwC to Deloitte.
effective transition of the external audit from  LLP PwC to Deloitte.
Continue to review and monitor Reviews undertaken in March and September of key risks and their management the approach to risk management The Groups principal risks and the adequacy of the mitigating controls in place were and the level of risk driven through considered in detail changes to the operating model, industry changes and technological Feedback provided to management as part of this review process and any material developments.
Continue to monitor and review Updates received in January and July on the Groups IT controls cyber security and planned major IT controls reviewed and updated and new, more robust, controls introduced as part of changes to IT systems.
theGroups ongoing continuous improvement programme Updates received in January and July on the Groups information security programme under which the Company would continue to develop and implement new processes to address, inan appropriate manner, the continued threats to information security as they develop.
Continue to focus on finance Updates received on progress made to upgrade finance systems systems transformation.
Projects included implementation of new software solutions, reviewing the efficiency of processes and finance operating models and developing internal reporting capabilities Good progress made with many of the projects completed or on track and where some projects had been delayed due to technical reasons, revised plans were developed toensure that the projects would be completed in an appropriate timescale.
level of volumes purchased to determine the appropriate rate Financial reporting and significant at which rebate is earned as this varies dependent upon the nancialjudgements volume or value purchased.
As a result of the review process, The Committee considered the issues summarised below as the Committee concluded that the level of rebate income and significant in the context of the 2015 16 financial statements.
rebate receivable as at 31 July 2016 was properly reected in the These were discussed and reviewed with management and the consolidated financial statements.
external auditors and the Committee challenged judgements and sought clarification where necessary.
The Committee received a The Committee considered the level of provisions for obsolete report from the external auditors on the work they had performed and slow moving inventory as at 31 July 2016.
This is to arrive at their conclusions and discussed in detail all material predominantly a system-generated calculation, comparing findings contained within the report.
inventory on hand against expected future sales using historic experience as the basis for provisioning, along with the results The Committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and of physical stock-counts.
The Committee ensured the policy other intangible assets for impairment, including a detailed was consistently applied across the Group in the current and review of the assumptions underlying the value in use previous financial periods and sought the views of the auditors calculations for businesses identied as cash generating units.
before concluding that provisions for obsolete and slow moving The Committee agreed with managements assessment that inventory are fairly stated in the consolidated financial statements.
an impairment charge had arisen relating to the UK business due to continued challenging market conditions and signicantly reduced expectations of profitability.
The key assumptions underlying the calculations are primarily the achievability of the long-term business plan, country specic discount rates, anticipated revenue growth in the short-term and long-term growth assumptions.
The Committee reviewed the recognition of supplier rebates which are significant to the Group and are an area of inherent risk due to the number of arrangements and complexity of certain arrangements.
In addition, the majority of the supplier rebate arrangements cover a calendar year and therefore do not end at the same time as the Groups accounting year-end.
This review covered the processes and controls in place during the year and the level of adherence to the Groups accounting policies and procedures.
Judgements were made to forecast the expected Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Accountability continued Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Effectiveness of the audit process At the request of the Board, the Committee assessed whether the Following the issue of the Companys Annual Report, the content of the 2015 16 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, Committee conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of balanced and understandable.
In order to make this declaration, the external audit.
A survey of all the Groups finance teams is a formal process is followed to ensure the Committee has access conducted.
Each team is asked to rate the performance of the to all relevant information including a paper from management external auditor against a range of measures, including relating detailing the approach taken in the preparation of the Annual to the adequacy of planning, the sufciency of resource, the Report and Financial Statements and identifying areas where it thoroughness of review and testing, the adequacy and application has met the requirements of the Code.
The Committee and all of knowledge of the Group, the usefulness of feedback and the Board members receive drafts of the Annual Report and Financial quality of reporting.
This year the review was carried out in relation Statements in sufficient time to allow challenge of the disclosures to PwCs last external audit of the Group for the year ended 31 July where necessary.
The Committee advised the Board it was 2015 and the Committee was satisfied that PwC provided an satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2015 16 Annual Report and effective audit service.
A review of the effectiveness of the audit for Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the the year ended 31 July 2016 will be conducted.
necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Auditor independence and objectivity The Directors responsibilities statement can be found on page57.
The Company has policies and procedures in place to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the external auditor are not External audit impaired.
These include restrictions on the types of services which the external auditor can provide, in line with the Audit Practices Auditor appointment Board Ethical Standards on Auditing.
Details of the services that Deloittes appointment as the Companys new external auditor the external auditors cannot be engaged to perform are provided following the external audit tender process in June 2015 was at www.
approved by the shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
In the tender process Deloitte proposed a thorough When considering the award of non-audit work to the external transition plan which included a detailed assessment of the control auditor, an assessment is made to consider if it is more effective environment in each region and made proposals to increase the for the work to be carried out by the external auditor who has use of analytical techniques as part of the audit plan.
The plans existing knowledge of the Company and all appointments have been successfully implemented and Deloitte have provided are made on a case-by-case basis.
The prior consent of the feedback to the Audit Committee.
I would like to thank our Chairman of the Committee is required before the Companys previous external auditor, PwC, and Deloitte for their assistance external auditor is appointed to undertake non-audit work.
in achieving an efficient and effective handover.
Deloitte will be The external auditor will not be appointed to provide non-audit required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit services where the Committee considers it might impair their after five years and, as a result, the current lead audit partner will independence or objectivity in carrying out the audit.
At each be required to change after the 2020 year-end.
meeting the Committee reviews any new non-audit engagement of the Companys external auditor and reviews the level of fees The Committee reviews the external auditor appointment and the for all non-audit work.
Since its appointment as the Companys need to tender the audit.
The Company confirms that it complied external auditor, Deloitte has not undertaken any new non-audit with the provisions of the Code and the Competition and Markets work.
Deloitte was permitted to conclude a small number of minor Authority Order for the financial year under review.
For the financial non-audit engagements where it had already been engaged year ending 31 July 2017, the Committee has recommended to prior to its appointment as external auditor.
The minor non-audit the Board that Deloitte be reappointed as the external auditor and engagements related to expatriate tax and human resources and the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of Deloitte at the are now complete.
Deloitte also provides specic assurance to the Committee on The Committee confirms that the Company complied with the the arrangements and safeguards it has in place to maintain its provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 during the independence and objectivity, including an internal process to prefinancial year ended 31 July 2016. approve provision of non-audit services and the use of separate teams where non-audit services are being provided to the Group.
External audit processes The Committee continues to be satisfied with the independence During the year, the Group audit partner, together with other and objectivity of Deloitte.
relevant and appropriate Deloitte partners, attended all the Audit Committee meetings.
They provided the Committee with Audit and non-audit fees information and advice including detailed reports on the financial Fees for non-audit work performed by Deloitte as a percentage of statements and internal controls.
audit fees for the year ended 31 July 2016 were 7 per cent 2015: In January 2016, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms, the equivalent ratio was 50 per cent for non-audit work performed areas of responsibility and scope of the 2015 16 audit as set out in by PwC.
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees during the year the external auditors engagement letter.
During the year, Deloitte ended 31 July 2016, can be found in note 3 to the consolidated provided external audit services for regulatory and statutory financial statements on page 82. reporting.
Deloitte are expected to report to the Committee any material departures from Group accounting policies and procedures that are identied during the course of their audit work.
No material items were found or reported in the financial year.
Deloittes 2015 16 external audit plan was approved in March 2016 and has been successfully completed at the date of this report.
Wolseley plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which Internal audit the financial statements were approved, and are regularly reviewed The scope of activity of internal audit is monitored and reviewed by the Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is of at each Committee meeting.
An annual plan was agreed by the the view that the Company has a well-designed system of internal Committee in July 2016 which covers the activities to July 2017. control.
These systems can only provide reasonable, but not During the year, the Head of Internal Audit attended all Committee absolute, assurance that risks are managed to an acceptable level.
meetings and provided the Committee with a detailed report on internal audit activities which the Committee reviewed and In relation to the financial reporting process, at the business level, discussed in detail.
The Committee considered the matters raised line management are required to implement base financial and and the adequacy of managements response to them, including other controls in line with a clear set of detailed policies relating the time taken to resolve any such matters.
to financial reporting and other accounting matters and act in accordance with the Group Code of Conduct.
At Group level, In July 2016, the Committee conducted a review of the the Group finance function oversees through setting the policies, effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, including requiring a self-certication from the businesses and a bi-annual its terms of reference, audit plans, general performance and assessment of implementation by the businesses.
At a further relationship with the external auditors.
This review was facilitated level, assurance functions Internal and External Audits test various by an independent external consultant and undertaken using aspects of the processes and report to the Committee.
guidance issued by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors Institute.
The report concluded that the internal audit function The Chairman of the Committee reports any matters arising from was meeting the Institutes core standards, was considered to be a the Committees review to the Board following each meeting.
t for purpose department with strong sponsorship from the Board This update covers the way in which the risk management and and the Committee.
The review also identied some opportunities internal control processes are applied and any significant failings or to improve how the function operates including how it documents weaknesses in, or exceptions to, these processes.
There were no and provides assurance over IT risks and controls and how to significant failings or weaknesses identied.
These processes have enhance the structure and management of the North American been in place throughout the year ended 31 July 2016 and have audit team.
Steps have already been taken to implement these continued to the date of this report.
andthe other recommendations arising from the review.
Further information on the Companys risk management systems is set out in the section on Principal risks and their management on Risk pages 34 to 39.
Risk management Risk management reports prepared by the Group Head of Risk Whistleblowing and fraud and Compliance were submitted to the Committee in March and The Groups whistleblowing policy, which supports the GroupSeptember 2016.
These reports summarise submissions from wide Code of Conduct, is monitored by the Committee.
A copy of all areas of the business which the Executive Committee and the Groups Code of Conduct is available at www.
They identify the significant The Committee received reports at each Committee meeting risks to the Group, the controls in place and highlight the providing details of matters reported through the Groups tolerance levels that the Executive Committee and, ultimately, the international condential telephone reporting lines and secure Board are prepared to accept.
The Audit Committee reviewed website reporting facility, which are operated on its behalf by an the effectiveness of the Companys overall risk management independent third party.
All matters reported are investigated framework, including the generic procedures for risk identication, by the relevant operating company and, where appropriate, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting.
reported to the Committee, together with details of any corrective action taken.
The Committee also received reports at Committee Viability Statement meetings providing details of fraud losses on a half yearly basis.
The Committee also reviewed managements work in conducting a robust assessment of those risks which would threaten the future Audit Committee priorities for 2016 17 performance or liquidity of the Company, including its resilience to 2016 17 priorities the threats of viability posed by certain of those risks in severe but plausible scenarios.
This assessment included the stress testing The effective and efficient transition of responsibilities to the of cash ow projections to evaluate the impact of an unlikely, but Companys Interim Group Chief Financial officer realistic, worst-case scenario.
The Companys Viability Statement Continue to review and monitor the approach to risk management can be found on page 35. and the level of risk driven through changes to the operating model, industry changes and technological developments Internal controls Continue to monitor and review the Groups approach to During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed the information security effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk Continue to monitor finance systems transformation management procedures and compliance controls, as well as Monitor and ensure that the external auditors and internal audit the Companys statements on internal controls, before they were continue to co-ordinate their activities effectively and that the agreed by the Board for this Annual Report.
internal audit effectiveness review action points are completed The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate business risk.
Such systems are necessary As at the date of this report, the Committee has already begun to to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets implement a number of these action points.
and depend on regular evaluation of the extent of the risks to which the Company is exposed.
The Committee receives regular reports throughout the year to assure itself that the Companys systems comply with the requirements of the Code.
The Committee can Darren Shapland confirm that the Companys systems and their effectiveness have on behalf of the Audit Committee Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53
