Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Accountability and relations with shareholders We engage with private shareholders in the following ways: Accountability The Board is committed to presenting a clear assessment of periodic meetings are held with the UK Shareholders the Companys position and prospects through the information Association: provided in this report, through interim financial statements and the Company responds to communications from other reports as required.
individual shareholders: The Boards approach to risk management all documents presented at investor events are available at The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent www.
com: and of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic there is a Shareholder information section at objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and www.
com and on pages 126 to 128 of this report.
The effectiveness of these systems is also reviewed through the work of the Audit Committee described on Investor relations programme page 53.
There is a Group-wide risk management programme The allocation of time spent in the UK, continental Europe and in place which supports the Board in assessing and managing North America reects the distribution of our shareholders.
the principal risks to strategy.
During the year, the Board and its Shareholder meetings during the year ended 31 July 2016, Committees carried out a robust assessment of these risks.
there were a total of 239 meetings.
Ian Meakins and John The principal risks which the Board has focused on this year are Martin together with the Investor Relations team attended set out in the Principal risks and their management section of this 109 meetings, Gareth Davis together with the Investor Relations report on pages 34 to 39. team attended seven meetings, Frank Roach together with members of the US senior management team attended four meetings and the Investor Relations team met with institutions Remuneration through a further 119 meetings, conferences and calls.
Further details relating to the level and components of remuneration, together with the Companys policies on such The Chairman often meets with the larger institutional matters, are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 shareholders and also ensures that the Board as a whole to 72. maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
The Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations Relations with shareholders regularly provides the Board with details of feedback received Engagement from institutional shareholders and any key issues raised.
The Board is fully committed to engaging with all shareholders.
During the year, active dialogue was maintained with our Analyst and Investor Day, USA 12 November 2015 shareholders through planned communications and annual The Group held an Analyst and Investor Day at the Companys investor programmes.
The Group Director of Communications and new ship hub in Secaucus, New Jersey.
The event was hosted Investor Relations who reports to the Chief Financial officer and by Ian Meakins and focused on our US business, Ferguson.
Group Chief Executive has day-to-day responsibility for all investor During the day, there were a series of management meetings relations matters and for contact with all shareholders, financial on Fergusons strategy, performance and opportunities for analysts and the media.
In interactions with shareholders, the growth.
A tour of the facility took place in addition to visiting a Company ensures: local branch.
A webcast on the presentation can be found at www.
a professional approach: provision of accurate data: Plans for engagement in 2016 17 A similar investor relations programme will be run during the timely disclosure of information to the market: and 2016 17 financial year.
accessibility to both current and potential shareholders.
AGM Communications programme Regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and The AGM is held in Switzerland with an audio-visual link to London financial analysts based in Europe and North America is so that shareholders in London are able to participate and can maintained through: question the Board during the meeting.
All Directors attended the 2015 AGM with the exception of John Daly.
On his appointment, meetings and conversations involving the Group Chief Executive Mr Daly had a pre-existing business commitment which he was and Chief Financial officer: unable to re-schedule.
During the AGM, the Board answered a release of updates on the financial performance of the Group wide range of questions from shareholders.
incorporating revenue, profitability by region, net debt and Details of the 2016 AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM and appropriate commentary on key business trends: and are available at www.
the Chairman regularly engaging with larger institutional shareholders to discuss matters including the Board, strategy, remuneration and corporate governance.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49
