Accountability continued Nominations Committee During the year, the Committee also considered the composition, skills and experience of, and the succession plans for, the Groups senior leaders, and approved the implementation of succession plans for senior executives.
Succession for the Board and senior executives will continue to be a crucial area of focus of the Committee in the coming year and beyond to ensure that, as the Group develops, the business has the appropriate mix of skills and experience at Board and senior levels.
In addition to the work of the Committee, the Board conducts a detailed review of the succession and talent review each year and this review informs Gareth Davis and assists the Committee when carrying out its work.
Nominations Committee Chairman Diversity Dear Shareholder We remain supportive of the voluntary approach as an effective Succession way to encourage companies to improve gender diversity in Last year I highlighted the importance the Committee placed on boardrooms.
For the last three years we have met the gender giving full consideration to succession planning at Board level diversity recommendations set out in Lord Davies report, Women and for senior leadership positions.
One of the most important on Boards, and, again, this year 30 per cent of your Board are decisions a Board, supported by the Nominations Committee, has women.
Following Lord Davies final update on his report, the to make is the appointment of a new Chief Executive.
During the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills has set up a further year, we announced Ian Meakins retirement and the appointment independent review panel to increase female representation at of John Martin as our new Group Chief Executive CEO.
executive level in FTSE 350 companies.
We take gender diversity seriously, having met the diversity recommendations well ahead As part of the Committees succession planning process for the of the deadline set out in Lord Davies report, and we look forward role of CEO, we considered external candidates in addition to to reviewing the recommendations of the new panel once they John Martin, who was then our Chief Financial officer CFO.
The criteria for the selection of a successor to Ian Meakins as CEO included: an ability to foster the development of our people and the One of the core values of Wolseley is that we value our people.
diversity of our workforce: continuity, development and effective We aim to recruit, retain and develop a high quality, diverse implementation of the Companys strategy: an understanding workforce.
To achieve our objectives we will always appoint and commitment to the culture and values of the Company: and or hire the best candidates available from the widest range of strong and effective leadership of a large, international, publicly knowledge, skills and experience.
The diversity of our people quoted company.
whether in terms of gender, race and ethnicity, religious or political beliefs, marital status, sexual orientation, age, disability, culture, After a careful and thorough review, the Committee agreed that background or any other measure strengthens our diversity of John Martin was the most appropriate successor as CEO and thought, which is vital to the growth and success of our business.
recommended his appointment to the Board.
John joined the We are committed to providing our employees with an inclusive Company in 2010 as CFO and worked closely with Ian Meakins, work environment in which diversity is valued, discrimination in any since then developing and implementing the Groups strategy.
form is not tolerated, and in which all our people feel empowered He also had management responsibility for Wolseley Canada from to reach their full potential.
Details of our current gender diversity August 2013 until July 2016.
John has significant operational and statistics are set out on page 28. management experience and an exemplary track record in running large international businesses.
Effectiveness We also undertook a process to identify a successor for the role The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was of CFO.
We considered both internal and external candidates as carried out in April 2016.
The review concluded that the Committee part of a rigorous process involving interviews and assessments.
The review also highlighted areas for continued The criteria for the selection process included strategic improvement and we have incorporated these into our priorities for development abilities, functional capabilities, relevant sector and 2016 17 as set out in the table below.
international experience and the ability to work effectively in and At the 2016 AGM, I shall be available to respond to any build high performing teams.
In May 2016, we announced that the questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of the previously announced appointee would not take up the position of Committees activities.
the Companys CFO and that David Keltner would be appointed as Interim Group CFO.
David has been the CFO of our US business, Nominations Committee priorities for 2016 17 Ferguson, since 2009 and before that was CFO for Wolseley North America from 2006.
He has deep and broad finance experience, 2016 17 priorities and an excellent operational knowledge of the Groups businesses Continue to monitor Board and senior leadership succession in the USA and Canada.
The process to identify and appoint a permanent CFO is well underway and we will give thorough Regularly review long-term talent development consideration to both internal and external candidates during the process.
External search advisers JCA Group and Russell Reynolds Associates assisted the Nominations Committee during the year with the CEO and CFO succession processes.
JCA Group and Russell Reynolds Associates have no other connections to Gareth Davis the Company.
on behalf of the Nominations Committee Wolseley plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
