CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT This corporate governance statement forms part of the The Directors believe that the Company does not require an internal Directors report.
audit function, principally because the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by the Statement of compliance Audit Committee, and which provide control reports on their The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of operations at least annually.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC The Board of Directors Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for The Board consists of six Directors, all of whom are independent Investment Companies the AIC Guide published in July 2016.
Biographies of the Directors are shown on AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles pages 28 to 30 and demonstrate the wide range of skills and set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code experience that they bring to the Board.
The Directors possess published in September 2014, as well as setting out additional business and financial expertise relevant to the direction of the principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific Company and consider themselves to be committing sufficient time relevance to the Company.
During the year, it was agreed that the appointment of two additional The Board considers that reporting against the principles and non-executive directors with specific investment trust experience recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide would help ensure that the Board had the necessary skills to take the which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to Company through its next phase of development.
an independent external search consultancy with no connection to the Company, was engaged by the Company to identify suitable The FRC, the UKs independent regulator for corporate reporting and candidates prior to the appointment of Carolan Dobson and Alan governance responsible for the UK Code, has endorsed the AIC Code Hodson on 28 July 2016. and the AIC Guide.
The terms of the FRCs endorsement mean that AIC members who report against the AIC Code and the AIC Guide meet fully their obligations under the UK Code and the related None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company, nor disclosure requirements contained in the Listing Rules.
are any such contracts proposed.
Each Director has been appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment entered into with the Company.
Both the AIC Code and AIC Guide are available from the AIC website The Directors appointment can be terminated in accordance with at www.
A copy of the UK Code can be obtained the Articles of Association and without compensation.
letters of appointment are available on request from the company secretary and will be available at the AGM.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code The Chairman and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as set out below.
The Chairman, Susan Searle, is independent and considers herself the role of the chief executive: and to have sufficient time to commit to the Companys affairs.
Chairmans other commitments are detailed in her biography on page 28.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the The operation of the Board Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In The Board of Directors meets at least four times a year and more particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and often if required.
In addition to the four Board meetings, the administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, Directors meet annually for a formal session devoted entirely to the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal reviewing strategic matters, as well as meeting at least once a year operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in without the Portfolio Manager being present to reflect on the respect of these provisions.
The Directors have determined that the size of the Companys Board does not warrant the appointment of a senior independent director at this time.
All of the Directors are available to address shareholder queries or engage in consultation as required.
42 42 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 43 43 The table below sets out the Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, against the number of meetings each Board or Committee member was eligible to attend.
Board Audit Management Committee Engagement Committee Susan Searle 4 4 1 1 1 1 Scott Brown 4 4 1 1 1 1 Carolan Dobson 1 1 0 0 0 1 Steven Harris 4 4 1 1 1 1 Alan Hodson 1 1 0 0 1 1 Louise Makin 4 4 1 1 1 1 Carolan Dobson and Alan Hodson were appointed to the Board and the approval of dividend payments and distributions to the its Committees on 28 July 2016.
Further to their appointment, there Companys shareholders: was one Board meeting and Management Engagement Committee approving the Company's level of gearing: meeting held during the year.
the approval of terms of reference and membership of Board Committees: No individuals other than the Board or Committee members are approving the Directors and officers liability insurance: and entitled to attend the relevant meetings unless they have been agreeing the terms of the appointment of the third-party invited to attend by the Board or relevant Committee.
Directors are provided with a comprehensive set of papers for each There is a procedure in place for the Directors to take Board or Committee meeting, which equips them with sufficient independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
information to prepare for the meetings.
In addition, the company secretary aims to circulate meeting papers at least seven days prior The Company has maintained Directors and officers liability to each meeting to allow the Board or Committee members sufficient insurance, such cover to be maintained for the full term of each time to review the meeting packs.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved Save for such indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of to it for decision to ensure effective control of strategic, financial, Association, there are no qualifying third-party indemnity operational and compliance issues, which includes: provisions in force.
companys structure, including share issues and setting a Independence of Directors discount premium management programme: Each of the Directors was considered to be independent on risk management: appointment and remained so throughout the period.
In particular, reviewing the performance of the Portfolio Manager and other the Board remained independent of the Portfolio Manager and the service providers and setting their fees: AIFM and free from any business or other relationship that could setting the overall objectives and investment restrictions: materially interfere with the exercise of his or her independent approving Board changes: judgement.
There are no relationships or circumstances relating to authorising Board conflicts of interest: the Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
approving the Companys annual accounts and half-yearly accounts, including accounting policies: Care will be taken at all times to ensure that the Board is composed of members who, as a whole, have the required knowledge, abilities and experience to properly fulfil their role and are independent.
42 42 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 43 43 Directors' interests The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set out on The Directors hold shares in the following companies, all of which pages 28 to 30.
At the forthcoming AGM, Carolan Dobson and Alan represent more than 1 per cent of the Company's portfolio as at Hodson, who were appointed to the Board on 28 July 2016, will put 31 December 2016: themselves forward for election.
As the Company is within the FTSE 250, the other Directors will put themselves forward for re-election.
Susan Searle: Horizon Discovery, The Board has considered each Board member's independence of Benchmark Holdings plc the AIFM and Portfolio Manager and believes that it is in the best Scott Brown: Nil interests of shareholders that each of the Directors be elected Carolan Dobson: Nil or re-elected at the forthcoming AGM.
Steven Harris: Circassia Alan Hodson: Nil Board responsibilities and relationship with the Portfolio Manager Louise Makin: Nil The Board is responsible for the determination of the Companys investment policy and strategy and has overall responsibility for the Board evaluation Companys activities, including the review of investment activity and As a FTSE 250 Company, the Board is required to be externally performance and the control and supervision of all suppliers of evaluated at least every third year.
The first Board evaluation was services to the Company, including the Portfolio Manager.
The undertaken by Lintstock Limited, an external board evaluation Board is also responsible for the Companys systems of internal and company.
Following this evaluation, the Board considers that all of financial controls and for ensuring that commercial risks and the Directors contribute effectively to the operation of the Board financing needs are properly considered and that the obligations of and the strategy of the Company and that it has the appropriate a public limited company are adhered to.
balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge.
Arrangements have been put in place to delegate the operations of the Company to the AIFM, Portfolio Manager and other Board training and induction third-party service providers.
The AIFM has delegated the The company secretary, Board or the Portfolio Manager upon management of the Companys portfolio to the Portfolio Manager request of the Board, will offer induction training to new Directors to manage the Companys investment portfolio within the guidelines about the Company, its key service providers, the Directors duties set by the Board.
and obligations and other matters as may be relevant from time to time.
The Portfolio Manager is in frequent contact with the Board and The Board members are encouraged to keep up to date and attend supplies the Directors with monthly updates on the Companys training courses on matters which are directly relevant to their activities and detailed reports are provided for review at each Board involvement with the Company.
The Company has joined the AIC and meeting.
The Chairman encourages open and constructive debate the Board has taken advantage of various webinars, meetings and to foster a supportive and co-operative approach at all meetings.
conferences organised by the AIC in the furtherance of their training.
The Directors also receive regular briefings from, among others, the Conflicts of interest auditor and the company secretary regarding any proposed The Articles of Association provide that the Directors may authorise developments or changes in laws or regulations that could affect any actual or potential conflict of interest that a Director may have, them or the Company.
with or without imposing any conditions that they consider appropriate on the Director.
Directors are not able to vote in respect Board appointment, election and tenure of any contract, arrangement or transaction in which they have a The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors material interest and in such circumstances, they are not counted in are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and the the quorum.
A process has been developed to identify any of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors potential or actual conflicts of interest.
This includes declaring any potential new conflicts before the start of each Board meeting.
A schedule is maintained of each Board members potential None of the Directors consider length of service as an impediment conflicts of interest.
to independence or good judgement but, if they felt this had become the case, the relevant Director would stand down.
Board committees Given the size of the Board, it is not considered appropriate for the Company to establish separate Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
It is, therefore, the practice for the Board as a whole to consider and approve Directors remuneration and new appointments.
The need for separate Remuneration and Nomination Committees is considered on an annual basis.
44 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 45 Audit Committee Review of shareholder profile The Audit Committee is comprised of all Directors and is chaired by The Board reviews reports provided by qualified independent Steven Harris, who is a Chartered Accountant.
Susan Searle, the industry consultants and the Companys broker on the Companys Companys Chairman, is a member of the Audit Committee.
The shareholder base and its underlying beneficial owners.
The Portfolio Directors believe it is appropriate for the Chairman of the Board to be Manager and brokers disclose any concerns raised by shareholders a member of the Audit Committee, given her financial experience.
The Audit Committee is also of the view that her membership would not compromise her independence as Chairman of the Board.
The Stewardship responsibilities and the use of voting rights Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its Audit Committee, The FRC introduced a Stewardship Code which sets out the details of which can be found on pages 47 to 49. responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee is comprised of all the Under this, managers should: Directors and is chaired by Susan Searle.
The Management publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their Engagement Committee meets at least once a year or more often if stewardship responsibilities to their clients: required.
Its principal duties are to consider the terms of disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: appointment and ongoing performance of the AIFM, Portfolio monitor their investee companies: Manager and the Companys other service providers, including the establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: level of fees payable and the length of notice period, to ensure that be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders, as have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption record: and policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010.
review, the Management Engagement Committee has recommended that the appointments of all of the Company's The Portfolio Manager recognises that one of the important third-party service providers continue.
obligations that it has, as the steward of the Companys underlying shares and securities, is the right to vote on issues submitted to shareholders.
These issues may include the election of directors During the year, the Management Engagement Committee has and other important matters that affect the structure of the undertaken a review of the performance of the AIFM, Portfolio investee company.
Woodford recognises its fiduciary responsibility Manager and its other third-party service providers.
to its clients and the Woodford investment team will consider proxy voting papers, supported by independent providers, ahead of The terms of reference of the Committees are available on the making an election.
com funds wpct Company secretary The Woodford investment team considers its position on all major The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the proxy voting issues, is responsible for all elections and a record of company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board and the election is maintained electronically.
Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Woodford has retained the services of Institutional Voting Information Service IVIS, a leading provider of corporate governance research.
IVIS outlines a number of best practice guidelines that cover corporate governance and share capital management.
44 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 45 Woodford considers the advice and recommendations made by The Directors have reviewed and considered the guidance supplied IVIS in reaching a proxy voting decision.
However, it is the by the FRC on Risk Management, Internal Control, and Related responsibility of the Woodford investment team to decide how to Finance and Business Reporting and the FRC's Guidance on Audit vote and it may choose not to follow the advice provided by a third Committees published in April 2016.
An ongoing process has been party.
Woodfords default position is to vote with management.
established for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
This process, together with key Woodford manages the proxy voting process via ProxyEdge, a procedures established with a view to providing effective financial platform provided by Broadridge Financial Solutions.
The system control, was in place during the year under review and at the date of manages the process of notifications, voting, tracking, mailing, the signing of this report.
The internal control systems are designed reporting and record maintenance.
ProxyEdge provides proxy to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, that the information through an automated electronic interface based on financial information on which business decisions are made and share positions provided directly to Broadridge by Woodford back which are issued for publication is reliable and that the assets of the office or directly from the clients custodian, bank or broker-dealer.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objectives.
It Relations with shareholders should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The notice of the AGM, which is sent out at least 20 working days in advance, sets out the business of the The Directors have carried out a review of the effectiveness of the meeting and any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained Company's risk management and internal control systems as they in the Directors report.
Separate resolutions are proposed in have operated over the period and up to the date of approval of the respect of each substantive issue.
There were no matters arising from this review that required further investigation and no significant Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to participate failings or weakness were identified.
The Chairman of the Board and the Directors, together with representatives of the Portfolio Manager, will be The Company has established a risk matrix consisting of the key risks available to answer shareholders questions at the AGM.
Proxy voting and controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Details of the Companys figures are available to shareholders at the AGM.
risks can be found on pages 23 and 24 of the Directors report, together with an explanation of the robust controls that have been The Portfolio Manager holds regular discussions with major established to manage each risk.
Financial risks are explained in note shareholders, the feedback from which is provided to and greatly 22 on pages 76 to 81.
The risk matrix provides a basis for the Audit valued by the Board.
The Directors are available to enter into dialogue Committee and the Board to regularly monitor the effective and correspondence with shareholders regarding the progress and operation of the controls and to update the matrix when new risks performance of the Company.
Further information about the are identified.
During the year, the Company has assessed the risk Company can be found on the Companys section of the Portfolio posed by Brexit and updated the matrix accordingly.
Most functions for the day-to-day management of the Company Internal control review are sub-contracted, and the Directors therefore obtain regular The Directors are responsible for the systems of internal control assurances and information from key third-party suppliers regarding relating to the Company and the reliability of the financial reporting the internal systems and controls operated in their organisations.
In process and for reviewing their effectiveness.
addition, each of the third parties is requested to provide a copy of its report on internal controls each year, which is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
During the period under review, the Board has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses in the internal control systems of its service providers.
46 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 47
