Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Effectiveness Evaluating the performance of the BoardandtheDirectors The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance and that of its Committees each year, with an external evaluation every three years.
Following the external evaluation conducted in 2015, in accordance with the Code, the next  effectiveness review will be conducted during the year ending 31 July 2018.
Progress against the actions identied following the external review undertaken in 2015, is outlined below: Action point Responsibility Outcome Performance reporting to have greater Finance The Board receives the appropriate mix of financial and range of financial and non-financial non-financial data on a regular and consistent basis.
data and key performance indicators Continued focus on succession Board and Nominations During the year, the Board and the Nominations Committee planning for the Board and senior Committee reviewed succession planning in detail see page 54.
In management and talent development addition, the Board received detailed reports on people generally in the business strategy and succession planning generally in December 2015 and May 2016.
Continued focus on detailed review Board Throughout the year, the Board continued to oversee the of progress made within the Groups execution of our strategy and to monitor progress against strategy and specic strategicinitiatives the2015 16 objectives.
The Board: received updates on strategic initiatives at each Boardmeeting: received business-specic updates from the Groups majorbusinesses: reviewed acquisition opportunities on an ongoing basis moredetails on page 5 : and held the Board and Committee meetings in the USA in July2016, taking the opportunity to learn more about our businesses in the USA more details on page 45.
Board composition Information and support As at the date of this report, the Board consists of nine members The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Board and including the Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Non its Committees.
In advance of each set of meetings, papers and Executive Directors, each of whom served throughout the relevant information are delivered so that each Director is provided nancialyear ended 31 July 2016.
In addition, Mr Meakins served with the necessary resources to full their duties.
The information throughout the year ended 31 July 2016 as Group Chief Executive is published via a secure web portal, allowing remote access and until his retirement on 31 August 2016. by Directors.
Meeting support is provided by the Company Secretariat department.
The biographies of the Directors on pages 42 and 43 demonstrate the strong and diverse experience possessed by All Directors have access to a reading room through a web portal the members of the Board.
The Non Executive Directors play which provides access to a library of relevant information about the an essential role bringing a range of skills and expertise and Company, the Group and Board procedures.
challenging the Board to help develop Group strategy.
Each of The Board has an established procedure for Directors, the Non Executive Directors and the Chairman are considered by ifnecessary, to take independent professional advice at the the Board to be independent and free of any relationship which Companys expense in furtherance of their duties.
This is in could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent addition to the direct access that every Director has to the judgement.
The Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor GroupCompany Secretary for his advice and services.
to consider when determining the independence of the Non Executive Directors.
Each of our Non Executive Directors have Development of the Board served for five years or less.
The Board is satisfied they each Upon appointment, all new Directors follow a comprehensive continue to demonstrate independence of thought and expertise induction programme.
As part of this programme, the Company in meetings, and to support the senior management in an Secretariat department and other Group functions provide new objective manner.
New Directors also visit a variety The composition of the Board is kept under review by the of businesses in order to familiarise themselves with the Groups Nominations Committee to ensure an appropriate balance of operations.
All Directors are provided opportunities for further skills, experience, independence and knowledge are maintained.
development and training following their induction and, during There were no new Director appointments during the year.
the year, the Chairman discusses a development plan with each Director.
In addition to regular updates on governance, legal and regulatory matters, the Board also receives detailed briengs from advisers on a variety of topics that are relevant to the Group and its strategy.
The annual formal review of governance provides the Directors with an opportunity to assess their effectiveness and that of the Board as a whole.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Effectiveness continued Board and Committee effectiveness review Key findings and improvement actions This year, the Board effectiveness review was facilitated The key findings of the internal evaluation overall were positive.
internally using an online survey.
The survey included questions The review concluded that the Board was very effective and addressing the activities and concerns of the Board and the Audit, worked well together enabling the individual Directors to discharge Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
They encouraged their respective roles effectively.
The composition of the Board was comment and qualitative evaluation of the effectiveness of the rated highly and it was noted that there was strong engagement Board and each Committee, the individual members and the by the Non Executive Directors with management, involving support received from management and advisers.
The results of constructive challenge and support.
The amount of time spent on the surveys provided discussion of areas for further improvement strategic oversight and the ways in which the Board developed by the Board and the Committees.
and monitored the Groups strategy were seen as appropriate.
Performance of the Board Committees was considered to be All Directors, from the time of appointment, are aware of the time strong and the structure, whereby each of the Non Executive commitment expected in order to discharge their responsibilities Directors serves on each of the Audit, Nominations and effectively.
The Chairman maintains frequent contact with all Remuneration Committees, was regarded as being effective at Directors and constantly monitors whether they are able to devote supporting transparent decision-making.
sufficient time to their respective roles, and he is satisfied that each Director has been able to do so.
The Chairman also has Areas identied in order to improve overall effectiveness, are regular meetings, outside of Board and Committee meetings, summarised below: withthe CEO and other executives to keep up to date with Action materialdevelopments in the business.
During the financial year, each Director attended all scheduled Board meetings.
Keep under review the range of skills and experience required at Board-level as the Groups strategy is implemented and its During the year, the Non Executive Directors, led by the Senior businesses develop in the future Independent Director, undertook the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The evaluation also took account of the views Continue to focus on succession planning at Board and of the Executive Directors.
The Chairman is considered to have Executivelevel performed strongly and to be highly effective in his role.
Develop further opportunities for Board members to continue The Board continues to consider each of the Directors to be to deepen their understanding of and engagement with the effective and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role and Groupsbusinesses the Chairmans performance was highly rated.
Why you should vote to re-elect your Board The Board contains a broad range of experience and skills from a variety of industries and advisory roles, which fully complement each other.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors will stand for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 42 and 43 and in the Notice of AGM.
Wolseley plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
