Leadership Board of Directors Biographies for the members of your Board as at the The primary role of the Board is to provide effective and date of this report are as follows.
entrepreneurial leadership necessary to enable the Groups Each member served throughout the financial year ended 31 July 2016. business objectives to be met and to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
Gareth Davis, Chairman N D E M E M T Gareth Davis John Martin Frank Roach Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Executive officer, USA Year of Appointment Year of Appointment Year of Appointment 2011 appointed as Chairman Appointed as Group Chief Executive on 2005 2003 appointed to the Board as a 1September2016 Key strengths and experience Non Executive Director Appointed as Chief Financial officer in April2010 Strong business and operational leadership: Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience management of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Extensive international board and general Extensive operational and financial management Business development and wide ranging sales management experience, having served on various experience of running large international businesses.
Mr Roach is Chief Executive officer of company boards for many years.
Mr Davis spent 38 Mr Martin has strong leadership capabilities and Ferguson Enterprises, Inc. responsible for all of the years in the tobacco industry and was Chief Executive significant experience in strategic development and Groups businesses based in the USA.
He joined of Imperial Tobacco Group plc from its incorporation in driving improvements in operational performance.
Ferguson in 1976 and has held a number of business 1996 until May 2010.
Hejoined the Company as Chief Financial officer and roles.
In 2005, Mr Roach was appointed as Senior Vice assumed management responsibility for Wolseleys President of the Wolseley North America management Other principal appointments Canadian business between 2013 and 2016. team, playing a key part in further developing and Chairman of William Hill PLC and DS Smith Plc.
Previously he was a partner at Alchemy Partners, expanding the Groups North American businesses, the private equity group, and prior to that was Chief and joined the Board in 2005.
Financial officer of Travelex Group, the international Other principal appointments payments business and Hays Plc.
A A A N N N R R R S Pilar Lpez Alan Murray Darren Shapland Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Year of Appointment Year of Appointment Year of Appointment 2013 2013 2014 Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Strong financial and international experience within Considerable international operational experience and Considerable commercial, operational, financial global businesses.
Ms Lpez was Global Simplication extensive executive management experience within management and broad public company experience Director for Telefnica S. A from 2014 and Chief global businesses.
Mr Murray was previously a Non in major retail businesses.
Until September 2016 Financial officer for Telefnica Europe 2007 to Executive Director of International Power plc 2007 MrShapland was Chairman of Poundland Group plc.
She was also a Supervisory Board member to 2011.
Prior to that, he spent 19 years at Hanson He was a Non Executive Director of Ladbrokes plc of Telefnica Czech Republic AS and Vice Chair plc and was Group Chief Executive between 2002 and was Chairman of its Audit Committee until 2015. of Telefnica Deutschland Holding AG.
From 2007 until 2008, he was a member Between 2012 and 2013, he was Chief Executive Telefnica in 1999, working in a number of finance of the Management Board of HeidelbergCement officer of Carpetright plc.
From 2005 to 2010, Mr and strategy positions across the European and Latin AG.
Mr Murray is a qualied chartered management Shapland was Chief Financial officer of J Sainsbury American businesses.
Prior to this she worked in a accountant.
plc and from 2010 to 2011, Group Development variety of roles at J. P. Morgan, inMadrid, London and Director.
He was also Chairman of Sainsburys Bank.
Other principal appointments New York where she became aVice President.
Prior to that, Mr Shapland held a variety of senior Non Executive Director of Owens-Illinois, Inc. finance and operational positions at Carpetright plc, Other principal appointments and member of the Supervisory Board of Superdrug Stores plc, the Burton Group and Arcadia.
Country Manager for Microsoft Spain.
Other principal appointments Chairman of Maplin Electronics Limited, Notonthehighstreet.
Wolseley plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information A A D N N E R R M T Tessa Bamford John Daly David Keltner Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Interim Group Chief Financial officer Year of Appointment Year of Appointment Year of Appointment 2011 2014 Appointed as a member of the Executive Committee in September 2016 but not a member of the Board Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Extensive boardroom and City experience.
Considerable international business and executive Key strengths and experience MsBamford has broad business experience having management experience in a variety of senior A wealth of financial and risk management experience held senior advisory roles in both the UK and USA leadership roles within major international public as well as in-depth knowledge and understanding of across a range of sectors.
She was formerly a founder companies.
Mr Daly undertook various executive Wolseley.
Mr Keltner was appointed as Interim Group and Director of Cantos Communications, the online leadership positions during a 20-year career at Chief Financial officer with effect from 1 September corporate communications service provider 2001 British American Tobacco Plc BAT, running large 2016 whilst the Company undertakes the selection to 2011.
Previously, she was a Director of J Henry international businesses.
Mr Daly recently stepped process to appoint a permanent Chief Financial officer Schroder & Co, where she worked for 12 years in a down as a Non Executive Director of Reynolds CFO.
Mr Keltner is not a Director of the Company number of roles between 1986 and 1998.
Prior to that, American Inc. a BAT associate company in the USA.
but will attend all Board meetings.
From December Ms Bamford worked in corporate finance for Barclays Prior to his time with BAT, Mr Daly was Managing 2006 until January 2009, Mr Keltner was CFO of fide Zoete Wedd.
Director of Rothmans Internationals Japan and South Wolseley North America before becoming the CFO of Korea businesses.
Ferguson Enterprises Inc, the Groups largest operating Other principal appointments subsidiary.
At Ferguson he held direct responsibility Consultant at Spencer Stuart.
Non Executive Director Other principal appointments for Finance, Acquisitions, Tax, Financial Services, Risk of Barratt Developments plc.
Non Executive Director of Britvic plc and G4S plc.
He joined Wolseley in 1993 from the Companys acquisition of Stock Building Supply, a US building materials business, where he held an operational role.
Previously he was a Vice President in the corporate banking division at NationsBank.
Board and Committee meetings Key to Board Committee Membership 2015 16 attendance eligibility A A Audit Committees N D Disclosure Board members Board Audit Rem Nom E Executive Chairman R 1 Gareth Davis 6 6 3 3 N Nominations Executive Directors M Major Announcements 2 Ian Meakins 6 6 R Remuneration 3 John Martin 6 6 T Treasury Jacky Simmonds Frank Roach 6 6 S Senior Independent Director Independent Non Executive Director Non Executive Directors Committee Chair Tessa Bamford 6 6 4 4 6 6 3 3 Year of Appointment 2014 4 John Daly 6 6 4 4 5 6 3 3 Key strengths and experience Other Board members Pilar Lpez 6 6 4 4 6 6 3 3 Ian Meakins was Group Chief Executive, Chair of Extensive executive remuneration and human 5 Alan Murray 6 6 4 4 6 6 3 3 resources experience within large international the Executive Committee and a member of the 6 Disclosure, Major Announcements and Treasury Darren Shapland 6 6 4 4 6 6 3 3 businesses.
Ms Simmonds was Group HR Director 7 of TUI Travel plc from 2010 until the end of May 2015.
Committeesthroughout the financial yearended Jacky Simmonds 6 6 4 4 6 6 3 3 31 July 2016 and until his retirement on 31 August She was also a member of the Supervisory Board The Major Announcements Committee meets as required and of TUI Deutschland, GmbH and a Director of PEAK 2016. was not required to meet during the year.
Richard Shoylekov, Adventure Travel Group Limited.
She was previously Group General Counsel and Mark Fearon, Group Director a divisional HR Director of First Choice Holidays PLC of Communications and Investor Relations are additional until the business was merged with Tui AG in 2007 to members of that Committee.
From 2007 to 2010, she was HR 1 Chair of the Nominations Committee.
2 Group Chief Executive until he retired from the Board on 31 August 2016.
Other principal appointments 3 Group Chief Financial officer until 31 August 2016.
Group People Director of easyJet plc.
Appointed as Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 September 2016.
4 Mr Daly was unable to attend one meeting of the Remuneration Committee due to a scheduling conict.
6 Chair of the Audit Committee.
7 Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Leadership continued Wolseleys governance structure The Board believes that good governance comes from having an The table below describes Wolseleys governance structure, effective Board which provides strong leadership to the Company an overview of the key Committees of the Board and other and engages well with both management and stakeholders.
administrative committees and the roles and responsibilities The clear division of responsibilities within Wolseleys governance of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior structure ensures constructive relationships and enables the Board Independent Director.
Shareholders Board and Committees of the Board Committees of the Board support the Board in the fullment of its duties.
These take strategic decisions of a substantive nature.
The Board Collectively responsible for the long-term success of theCompany Reviewing the performance of the Board and its Committees andensuring effective succession planning Accountable to shareholders and responsible for the proper conduct of the business Ensuring effective financial reporting Setting the overall strategic direction of the Company Approval of key strategic projects in the best interests of theGroup Oversight of effective management of the Wolseley Group Maintaining a sound system of risk and internal controls  leadership and resources are in place tomeet its objectives To read more see page 45 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Major Announcements Committee Oversees, monitors and Reviews and recommends to Regularly reviews the structure, makes recommendations the Board the framework and size and composition of the Meets as required in as appropriate in relation policy for the remuneration of Board and its Committees exceptional circumstances to the Companys financial the Chairman, the Executive toconsider disclosure statements, accounting Directors and the Executive Identies and nominates obligations in relation to processes, audit internal and Committee suitable candidates to be materialinformation where external, risk and internal appointed to the Board the matter is unexpected controls and matters relating to Takes into account the subject to Board approval and andnon-routine fraud andwhistleblowing business strategy of the Group considers succession generally and how the Remuneration policy reects and supports that strategy To read more see page 50 To read more see page 58 To read more see page 54 Other Committees Implement strategic decisions and executive or administrative matters Executive Committee Treasury Committee Disclosure Committee Addresses operational business issues Considers treasury policy including financial Meets as required to deal with all matters structures and investments, tax and treasury relating to public announcements of the Responsible for implementing Group strategy strategy, policies and certain transactions of Company and the Companys obligations and policies, day-to-day management and the Group under the Listing and Disclosure and monitoring business performance Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Reviews performance and compliance of the Authority and EU Market Abuse Regulation Chaired by the Group Chief Executive, tax and treasuryfunction Committee membership comprises: Assists in the design, implementation Chief Executive officer, USA Makes recommendations to the Board and periodic evaluation of the Companys Interim Group Chief Financial officer in matters such as overall nancing and disclosure controls and procedures Group Chief Information officer strategy, and currency exposure Managing Director, UK Committee membership details can be Interim Chief Executive officer, Nordicregion Committee membership details can be found at www.
com CEO, Canada and Central Europe found at www.
com Group HR Director Group General Counsel.
Biographical details foreach member can be found at www.
com Wolseley plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
