REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its Matters considered during the year report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Audit Committee has met twice during the year and once post the year end.
At those meetings, the Audit Committee has The membership of, and attendance at, its meetings is set out on reviewed the following: page 43.
As a whole the Audit Committee considers itself to have the Companys financial statements for the half year and year the required breadth of skills and experience to discharge its role.
end and made formal recommendations to the Board.
In doing so, the Audit Committee has reviewed the appropriateness of The role of the Audit Committee the Companys accounting policies and whether appropriate The role of the Audit Committee is defined in its terms of reference, estimates and judgements had been made: which can be found on the Companys section of the Portfolio the internal controls and risk management systems of the Managers website at www.
In summary, the Companys third-party service providers to which it has role includes the following: delegated its operations: to monitor the financial reporting process: the Companys risk matrix, including consideration of the risk to review and monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual posed by the United Kingdoms decision to leave the EU: financial statements and review and challenge where necessary the whistleblowing policy of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager: the accounting policies and judgements of the AIFM, Portfolio the policy on non-audit services: Manager and administrator: the audit plan and fees with the auditor, including the key areas to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal of focus: financial and internal control and risk management systems: the dividend policy and recommendation of dividend: and to review the effectiveness of the external audit process: the need for an internal audit function.
to make recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment or removal of the external auditor and to approve its remuneration UK non-audit services and terms of engagement: The Audit Committee has reviewed and implemented a policy on to review and monitor the external auditors independence the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services.
During and objectivity: the year ended 31 December 2016, the auditor has provided the to consider the provision of non-audit services: following non-audit service: review of the Companys half-year to consider the provision of services by the Companys appointed accounts for the period ended 30 June 2016.
Prior to undertaking tax advisers: this non-audit service, the Audit Committee reviewed the auditors to consider any dividend payments and distributions to controls in place to ensure that the auditors objectivity and shareholders: independence were safeguarded.
The fee for this non-audit service to consider and review the valuation and existence of the was 10,000.
The fee to be paid with respect to the audit of the Company's assets: annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 to consider the need for an internal audit function: and is 45,000.
Therefore, the ratio of non-audit to audit fees is 1:5.5. to review the whistleblowing policies of the third-party service providers and receive assurances that the appropriate bribery It was agreed that all requests or applications for other services to be risk and anti-corruption policies are in place to ensure provided by the auditor should be submitted to the Audit Committee compliance with the Bribery Act 2010. and will include a description of the services to be rendered and an anticipated cost.
Following the annual review of this policy, the Audit Committee has concluded that it still remained appropriate.
46 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 47 Significant accounting matters The Audit Committee met on 16 March 2017 to review the report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Audit Committee considered the following significant issues, including principal risks and uncertainties in light of the Companys activities and issues communicated by the Auditors during their review, all of which were satisfactorily addressed: Issue considered How the issue was addressed Valuation of the investment portfolio, including the unquoted The Companys assets are principally invested in listed and unlisted holdings equities.
The Audit Committee reviewed internal control reports from the Portfolio Manager in the year, reporting on the systems and controls around the pricing and valuation of securities.
The Audit Committee notes that listed investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third-party financial data vendors.
In respect of the unquoted holdings, at each meeting the Audit Committee reviews a report on the revaluations undertaken on the unquoted holdings during the period and challenges the considerations and key assumptions made where appropriate, to ensure that the valuations are accurate.
During the period under review, the Audit Committee has also reviewed the process in place to ensure the accurate valuation of unquoted holdings on an ongoing basis.
The Audit Committee has also considered the work of the Pricing Committee set up with representatives of the AIFM, Portfolio Manager and Duff & Phelps, who act as independent investment advisers, which considers the pricing of the unquoted holdings.
Please see note 2 b on page 64 for further details of how unlisted equities are valued.
Compliance with Section 1158 of the CTA The Audit Committee receives assurance from the Company's administrator that the Company has been in compliance with Section 1158 of the CTA.
This is other than monitoring of close company status, which is monitored by way of an alert that has been set up by the Companys registrar to notify the company secretary should more than 0.5 per cent of shares change hands.
Risk of misappropriation of assets and unsecured ownership of The Audit Committee reviews reports from its service providers investments and Management override of controls on key controls over the assets of the Company.
Any significant issues are reported by the AIFM to the Board.
The AIFM has put in place procedures to ensure that investments can only be made to the extent that the appropriate contractual and legal arrangements are in place to protect the Companys assets.
The risk that income is overstated, incomplete or inaccurate The Audit Committee regularly reviews income forecasts, including through failure to recognise proper income entitlements or to apply special dividends.
The audit includes checks on the completeness the appropriate accounting treatment for recognition of income.
and accuracy of income and also checks that this has been recognised in accordance with stated accounting policies.
48 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 49 External auditor The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the The Companys external auditor, Grant Thornton, was appointed external audit process on an annual basis and makes prior to the listing of the Company in 2015 and is therefore in its recommendations to the Board on its re-appointment, second year of tenure.
Under the FRCs new ethical standards remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Audit Committee has applicable to public interest entities, the Company is required to reviewed the Letter of Engagement from Grant Thornton and agreed re-tender, at the latest, by 2025.
The Audit Committee intends to that it reflected the services outlined in the annual audit plan for the re-tender within the timeframe set by the FRC.
The Audit Committee has met with the audit partner and period of time since the auditor was appointed, it is not considered assessed Grant Thorntons performance to date.
I have met with Mr appropriate to consider the auditors succession at this point in time.
Swales separately, together with the Chairman, to discuss the Company's audit and other matters concerning the Company.
I can During the period under review, the Companys appointed audit confirm that Mr Swales did not raise any issues of concern during our partner at Grant Thornton, Mr Julian Bartlett, retired and Mr Marcus meeting.
The review has involved an examination of the auditors Swales was appointed as the new audit partner following the remuneration, the quality of its work, including the quality of the audit Companys half year.
Mr Swales has a commendable level of report, the quality of the audit partner and audit team, the experience in the audit of investment trusts and the Audit qualifications and expertise of the audit firm and the resources Committee has received sufficient assurance that a proper handover available to it, the identification of audit risk, the planning and has been undertaken in relation to the affairs of the Company.
In execution of the audit and the terms of engagement.
The Audit accordance with UK legislation, the audit partner must rotate at least Committee has also reviewed feedback from service providers in every five years.
As this is Mr Swales first year as audit partner, he will respect of the conduct of the audit for the year ended 31 December be due to rotate out of this role during 2021 at the latest.
Mr Swales 2016 and concluded that they were generally satisfactory.
has led the audit of the year-end accounts.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that it proposes to shareholders via an ordinary resolution that Grant Thornton be re-appointed as auditor at the AGM.
Grant Thornton The audit fees for the period under review can be found in note has confirmed its willingness to continue in office.
The Audit Committee has direct access to the Companys auditor The Audit Committee monitors the auditors objectivity and and provides a forum through which the auditor reports to the independence on an ongoing basis.
In determining the auditors Board.
Representatives of the auditor attend the Audit Committee independence, the Audit Committee has assessed all relationships meetings at least annually.
with the auditor and received confirmation from the auditor that it remained independent and that it had implemented policies and Tax adviser procedures to meet the requirements of the Auditing Practices The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of Boards Ethical Standards.
The Audit Committee has also received the Companys tax adviser on an annual basis and makes confirmation that no issues of conflict had arisen during the period.
recommendations to the Board as to its appointment and The Audit Committee is therefore satisfied that Grant Thornton remuneration.
CMA Order The Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2016 with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, issued by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order.
Approved 20 April 2017 Steven Harris Chairman of the Audit Committee 48 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 49 50 50 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 51 51
