Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 59 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Board The Board Executive Directors The Board is chaired by Non-Executive Chairman, Sir Michael Rake.
In addition to the Chairman, the Board currently includes three Executive Directors and four Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the Committees of the Board is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director, other than the Nomination Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman.
Worldpay appreciates the importance Sir Michael Rake 69 Philip Jansen 50 of having a Board of Directors containing Chairman Chief Executive Officer the right balance of skills, experience and N Chair E Member diversity.
The skills and experience of the current Directors and the value they Appointed to Worldpay Group: Appointed to Worldpay Group: bring to Worldpay are described here.
September 2015 April 2013 Independent: Independent: n a No Key strengths: Key strengths: Extensive financial and commercial Significant executive management expertise in capital markets, experience developed across different technology and digital products cultures and industries Detailed knowledge of risk Strong leadership capabilities and assessment and corporate strategy execution governance International business transformation Proven ability in delivering and change management skills shareholder value Current external commitments: Current external commitments: Chairman of BT Group plc and Majid Al Senior Advisor to Bain Capital.
Futtaim Holdings LLC: Director of S&P Global and Andes Energia plc.
Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce UK operations: Chairman of the Advisory Council of A Blueprint for Better Business: Honorary Vice President of the RNIB: Board member of the TransAtlantic Business Council: Advisor to ENGIE in the UK and Teneo Holdings LLC.
Previous roles: Previous roles: President of the CBI: Member of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Prime Ministers Business Advisory Brakes Group: Non-Executive Director of Group: Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Travis Perkins plc: Group Chief Operating of Barclays plc: Chairman of The Officer and Chief Executive Officer, Guidelines Monitoring Group: Chairman Europe, South Africa and India for of easyJet plc: International Chairman of Sodexo: Chief Operating Officer of KPMG: Chairman of the UK Commission MyTravel plc: Managing Director of Key: for Employment and Skills: Director of the Telewest Communications plc.
RM Remuneration Committee Financial Reporting Council: Chairman A Audit Committee of Business in the Community: Member N Nomination Committee of the National Security Forum: Board R Group Risk Committee Member of the Prince of Waless E Executive Team Charitable Foundation.
60 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Board continued Executive Directors continued Non-Executive Directors Rick Medlock 56 Ron Kalifa 55 Martin Scicluna 66 Chief Financial Officer Vice Chairman and Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director E Member E Member A Chair N Member RM Member R Member Appointed to Worldpay Group: Appointed to Worldpay Group: Appointed to Worldpay Group: April 2015 August 2010 October 2013 Independent: Independent: Independent: No No Yes Key strengths: Key strengths: Key strengths: Qualified chartered accountant with Significant executive and leadership Deep knowledge of auditing and extensive financial management experience with key strengths in associated regulatory issues experience in large international mergers and acquisitions and strategy Extensive skills in general technology companies development management and financial oversight Detailed operational expertise with Strong industry relationships including Significant experience of international significant experience of financing with cards schemes and industry companies and capital raising associations Proven experience of restructurings, Comprehensive financial and acquisitions and business integration commercial knowledge Current external commitments: Current external commitments: Current external commitments: None.
Non-Executive Director of Transport for Chairman of RSA Insurance Group plc London and QIWI plc: Independent and Great Portland Estates plc.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Chief Financial Officer of Misys, Inmarsat Chief Executive Officer of Worldpay: Non-Executive Director of Lloyds plc, NDS Group plc, PMS Europe, Creative Member of the Board of UK Cards Banking Group: Member of the Financial Group Holdings Ltd, and Technology plc.
Association Ltd. Has held various Services Trade and Investment Board: executive roles within RBS and NatWest.
Chairman of Deloitte LLP in the UK: Member of the Deloitte Board: Member of the Board of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu: Audit Partner Key: at Deloitte for 26 years.
RM Remuneration Committee A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Group Risk Committee E Executive Team Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 61 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Non-Executive Directors John Allan, CBE 68 Deanna Oppenheimer 58 Karen Richardson 54 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director RM Chair A Member N Member R Member R Chair RM Member N Member A Member N Member R Member Appointed to Worldpay Group: Appointed to Worldpay Group: Appointed to Worldpay Group: July 2011 January 2016 July 2016 Independent: Independent: Independent: Yes Yes Yes Key strengths: Key strengths: Key strengths: Brings a wealth of executive Extensive knowledge and experience Deep knowledge of the technology management expertise in commercial in retail banking and financial services sector with significant international and financial services sectors Track record in leading companies experience Significant experience managing through turnaround or significant Well-developed leadership and global complex mergers, acquisitions growth team management skills and integrations Experienced non-executive in Strong strategic and commercial Significant experience in alliances, a number of sectors understanding ventures and partnerships Current external commitments: Current external commitments: Current external commitments: Chairman of Tesco plc, Barratt Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of BT Group plc, Developments plc and London First.
Director of Tesco plc and holds NonExponent and Ayasdi.
Executive Director roles on the Boards of Whitbread plc, Axa Group and the Joshua Green Corporation.
Senior Advisor to Bain & Company.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Co-Deputy Chairman and Senior Vice Chair of Global Retail Banking Non-Executive Director roles on the Independent Director of Dixons and Chief Executive of UK Retail and boards of i2 Holdings, Hackerank, VirtuOz Carphone: Chairman of Care UK Health Business Banking at Barclays plc.
Advisory Board member & Social Care: Non-Executive Director of executive positions at Washington of Proofpoint and former advisor to Silver National Grid plc, Royal Mail Group plc, Mutual Inc. Lake Partners: Chief Executive Officer of the UK Home Office Supervisory Board, Epiphany Inc. Senior sales and marketing 3i Group plc, PHS Group plc, Wolseley plc, roles in Collabra Software Inc. and Hamleys plc and Connell plc.
Member of Netscape Communications Corp. the supervisory boards of Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Postbank: Senior Advisor to Deutsche Bank: Executive Director of BET plc: Chief Financial Officer and Board Member of Deutsche Post DHL.
