24 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Resources and relationships This platform functionality is enabled example, we are accelerating investment Our technology by six sets of components: in leading-edge payment gateways.
This Interfaces: To access the payments investment will upgrade our gateways to network, so that customers can use take advantage of innovations pioneered an integration point that provides by internet start-ups and apply them access to our global payments to solve customer needs in payments, network through card terminals, including the ability to scale in real websites, mobiles and tablets, as time for peak trading days and granular well as code-level integrations for routing of individual payments based start-ups and software developers.
on cost, risk or acceptance.
Gateways that route payments across the network: We have a wide range Advanced engineering capability of gateways, each providing a specific and intellectual property Our technology platform allows our capability for our customers, be it for Our technology advantage is rooted in customers to take payments in almost payments across different channels our engineering and technology talent.
any way, using almost any payment with rich functionality at high speed or Because we are pursuing growth in method, in almost any location.
for tailored access into a local market, new markets and new propositions, This platform is integrated across the managing our customers appetite for we have made the strategic decision entire transaction process, from the risk, cost and acceptance.
to invest heavily in building an internal capture of a payment request, to routing Value-added products and services: capability to solve customer problems, and authorising the transaction, and Our products include risk and to develop new products through clearing and settling the funds.
management and fraud detection, technology.
Worldpay employs over local and alternative payment 1,300 engineering and technology methods, a wide range of currencies, colleagues who have extensive as well as a payment tokenisation expertise in payments and in our engine to secure sensitive data.
customers industries, and are able Core payments: We offer two in-house to combine that commercial knowledge acquiring engines within our payments with leading-edge engineering.
platform: one optimised for domestic payments in the United States, the The engineering and operating teams other a global engine that accepts continually seek to help merchants payments in 146 countries, including create a better understanding of their domestic payments in the United own business dynamics, including how Kingdom, India, Japan and Canada.
to optimise their payment costs and to This allows us to optimise payment interpret data on shopper behaviour and authorisations, scheme and card seasonality.
Intuitive interfaces aim to network processing, billing rates demystify payments data and trends, and settlement.
and we provide easy access to quick, Data: Since we own and operate the targeted insights for small businesses points of entry to our global payments via My Business Dashboard, a simple network, the gateways, and the core dashboard that delivers easily digestible payment processing, we are able reports to enable small businesses to to monitor, store and create insights understand their performance over time.
by analysing payment data and traffic patterns.
Engagement with standard-setters Customer service: We have Worldpay participates in research and components to manage the entire debate and aims to positively influence customer lifecycle, including payment the direction of the payments industry.
exceptions for example, chargebacks As part of this, we continue to engage and other types of payment disputes.
and lead industry standards-setting bodies: we are an active participant Increased investment in technology in key technical and industry bodies, We plan to remain at the forefront including EMVCo and the PCI Security of payments technology, and seek Standards Council Board of Advisors.
to accelerate the benefits from the Worldpay is also the co-chair of the Web investment in modern engineering Payments working group at the W3C.
For Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 25 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Embracing diversity Our people We have a global and diverse workforce which reflects our global customer base and we are committed to promoting diversity and inclusion in the workplace.
We take part in the Business in the Colleagues and contractors Community Diversity Benchmark, and based in 13 countries.
our most recent rating in that survey rose from 45 to 70, above the benchmark for our sector.
In the 2016 engagement and resources for colleagues with survey, 84% of colleagues agreed that families.
Worldpay subsidises six sessions everybody feels welcome at Worldpay of back-up childcare or elder care for whatever their background and culture.
every colleague as well as maternity, We want Worldpay to be a great place paternity and adoption 1-1 coaching to work and we expect our colleagues to Connecting colleagues and webinars.
Nearly 11% of colleagues treat each other, our customers and our We have a number of established are registered.
partners with respect and embrace each colleague-led global networks including others differences.
The Worldpay Way Women of Worldpay WOW and GLOW, Welcoming colleagues with disabilities defines who we are as an organisation our LGBT network, which have grown to We work to accommodate the needs of and drives the way we behave: to Work over 400 and 250 members respectively.
colleagues with disabilities by facilitating Smart, Be Spirited and Be Supportive.
In 2016, we launched the Muslims of building access or providing additional or Worldpay MoW network which aims specialist equipment to help them carry We are committed to bringing out the to create a better understanding of out their roles.
best in our people and fostering a sense the Islamic culture and religion.
of community and belonging, and we Promoting gender diversity actively encourage our colleagues to Supporting colleagues with families We continue to focus on gender diversity make a meaningful contribution by giving As a family-friendly employer we know and on strengthening the pipeline of something back to their local communities.
getting the right work-life balance is talented women in Worldpay.
We launched the Worldpay Worldpay appointed Deanna Oppenheimer, Family Network in November 2016.
Non-Executive Director, Chair of the This colleague-led network offers the Group Risk Committee and a member opportunity to connect and network of the Remuneration and Nomination with colleagues going through similar Committees: Karen Richardson, experiences and to access inspiring Non-Executive Director and member and relevant events and resources on of the Audit, Group Risk and Nomination a range of issues at convenient times.
Committees: and Kim Crawford The network complements our Goodman, CEO of Worldpay US.
partnership with My Family Care which provides a wealth of information Worldpay colleagues by gender 2016 Male % Female % Total Board and Executive Team 12 75 4 25 16 Senior Leadership Team 51 81 12 19 63 All others 2,702 59 1,848 41 4,550 Total 2,765 1,864 4,629 2015 Male % Female % Total Board and Executive Team 14 93 1 7 15 Senior Leadership Team 56 80 14 20 70 All others 2,610 59 1,807 41 4,417 Total 2,680 1,822 4,502 Denotes graded colleagues which excludes contractors and colleagues in India.
26 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Resources and relationships continued Worldpay is a founding member of the FT 125 Womens Forum, launched in October 2016, which aims to help high-potential women at mid-career level to progress Company into leadership roles.
Through regular events, the forum is designed to engage One star accreditation maintained in participants in new thinking around Best Companies engagement survey topics such as digital innovation, with an 86% participation rate.
leadership and attracting and retaining talented women.
Since starting Talk About People groups We offer all colleagues access to in 2015, we have established a group in everywoman, an online global network every region we operate in.
These forums and learning portal that provides give colleagues the chance to speak resources and learning interventions with their senior management teams from e-learning to webinars.
Over and raise local concerns or issues, 700 colleagues, both men and women, supplementing the formal relationship are active members.
Worldpay also we have with UNITE in the UK and supported the recent everywoman the Works Council we operate Advancing Women in Tech event.
Worldpay is committed to promoting the Sharing in our success advancement of women in technology, We want to give colleagues the chance supporting events such as the Code to be part of our success.
In 2016, we First: Girls conference with a keynote introduced a Save As You Earn scheme speaker and sponsorship.
Code First: in the UK and an Employee Stock Girls is a social enterprise that aims Purchase Plan in the US.
Both schemes to promote women in technology by offer colleagues the opportunity to providing free community courses at buy Worldpay shares at a discount.
universities and companies, and it runs The colleague take-up rate has been a number of events around the UK.
high 60% in the UK and 41% in the US indicating the strong confidence our In 2016, we launched a return to work colleagues have in the long term programme, Refresh, aimed at men and prospects of the Group.
women who have been out of work for two years or more to focus on family Encouraging personal development commitments.
We are offering the We want colleagues to have long-term opportunity to re-enter the world of and successful careers at Worldpay and work through permanent roles in our we invest in our people to realise their Group Technology division.
In 2016, we continued to 155 applicants for the first programme.
make significant progress in supporting colleagues development via the Worldpay Improving engagement Academy which hosts all our training We have taken part in the Best Companies and development activity globally, from engagement survey for the past three induction and online compliance training years.
After achieving a one to watch to development for our leaders.
rating in 2014, we secured a one star accreditation in the 2015 survey.
In 2016, we consolidated that one star position.
Participation rates across the Group were well up on 2015, rising from 72% to 86%, 37% above the average for other similar-sized companies.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 27 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We continued to show our commitment to Worldpays future leaders via the launch of our Enterprise Wide Leadership programme.
Our partnership with Middlesex University continues, with 24 colleagues forming the second cohort to study our unique MA Management International Payments Ecosystem, which is a 24-month part-time programme fully funded by Worldpay.
We continue to use creative ideas to develop the next generation of leaders and advance our culture, and across the year over 30 high-potential colleagues attended the Worldpay Journey, an experiential programme designed to develop them as future leaders.
In September, we took in our first intake of 28 graduates across Finance and Group Technology & Engineering in London and Cambridge.
We had interest from over 4,500 candidates from a wide range of universities and backgrounds.
The programme complements our established graduate recruitment activity.
Giving something back In 2016, Worldpay launched the #oneofmany programme which gives all colleagues the opportunity to take one day out of the office every year to volunteer for a charity of their choice.
We have already seen many great examples of how colleagues have used these days.
We also run a Give As You Earn charitable giving scheme which allows colleagues to donate to Case study Colleagues in our San Francisco good causes through payroll.
Our #oneofmany volunteering offices regularly volunteer for the San scheme has captured our Francisco Marin Food Bank, packaging You can find further information on these colleagues imaginations food boxes which are delivered to activities, and others around the world, senior citizens.
on our Corporate Responsibility website In Brazil, colleagues collected over www.
40kg of food which they delivered to Through our partnership with the Movimento Aproximao childrens The Princes Trust, a team in Group home in So Paulo before spending the Technology & Engineering hosted four day doing arts and craft activities with young people for four days, immersing the children.
them into the world of work as part of the Get Into Tech programme.
A 20-strong team in Singapore volunteered for their local soup kitchen, Colleagues in Indore spent their Willing Hearts, which provides over #oneofmany day helping out with 5,000 meals every day for those in need.
activities in an elderly care home, a school and an orphanage in their local community.
28 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Resources and relationships continued Doing the right thing Protecting the environment Our world At Worldpay, we promote high legal, Protecting the environment for future ethical, corporate and colleague-related generations is important to us and we standards in our own business and are committed to reducing our carbon ask our suppliers to do the same.
footprint as we continue to grow our To ensure our suppliers share our business.
We are implementing measures values, we introduced our Supplier to make our offices more energy Code of Conduct at the end of 2015. efficient, sourcing green energy options This is reviewed regularly at and encouraging colleagues to adopt governance meetings.
greener ways of working, including reducing travel and promoting recycling Worldpay is strongly opposed to slavery and reuse measures.
We work with data and human trafficking and we will not centre providers who have a responsible We strive to make a positive impact knowingly support or do business with approach to climate change.
We take a any organisation that is involved in either.
values-based approach to ethics This commitment is underpinned by our In 2016, we implemented a Climate and compliance, and collaborate corporate policies which seek to ensure Change policy, available on our Corporate with industry partners to optimise transparency in our employment and Responsibility site at www.
We are focused supply chains.
In 2017, Worldpay will global which explains how we will manage on managing growth responsibly while publish a Slavery and Human Trafficking our impact on climate change and reducing our dependency on natural Statement made pursuant to Section 54 how we will share progress with our resources, and on leveraging our core of the Modern Slavery Act which will set stakeholders.
Worldpay supports the capabilities to make a difference in out our approach to dealing with the UN Framework Convention on Climate helping to tackle some of the key potential risk of human slavery and Change UNFCCC which aims to avoid issues facing society.
trafficking occurring within Worldpay's dangerous human interference with supply chain or any part of its business.
the planets climate system, and the work of the Greenhouse Gas protocol to understand, quantify and manage greenhouse gas emissions.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We have built a network of agreements Case study with other schemes and local and We continue to process charitable alternative payment methods around donations free of charge through the world, for example China UnionPay, our payment platforms JCB and American Express.
We devote significant resources to maintaining For Stand Up to Cancer 2016, we these relationships and to ensuring processed around 50,000 donations, continued compliance with the various amounting to nearly 1m.
operating rules and regulations Worldpay and its customers are subject to, not For the Comic Relief event in 2016, we only with regard to the card schemes but processed 216,130 transactions, valued also mandatory technology requirements at around 6m.
We also helped out by and other requirements for membership volunteering our Gateshead call centre and access.
We work proactively with regulators and, in 2016, our Regulatory and Industry Affairs Group reviewed and assessed EU and UK Using our core business capabilities Working with our partners governmental initiatives to ensure we to facilitate good and regulators understood and were able to influence We are proud to dedicate our scale, Worldpay has developed a strong new legislation and requirements.
infrastructure and capabilities to portfolio of market-leading ecommerce We also continued to build trusted support initiatives and charities that partners across our markets.
To ensure relationships with regulators including support our local communities.
We also that we develop long-term, sustainable the Financial Conduct Authority, the commit our skills and time as mentors and scalable relationships which deliver Payment Services Regulator and the through partnerships with a focus on strong mutual value propositions, we Competition and Markets Authority enterprise.
Our new partnership with utilise a model of find, build, educate and we seek to respond to mandatory The Princes Trust in 2016 was established and deepen.
requests for information in a timely and to encourage enterprise, supporting accurate manner.
young entrepreneurs with payments We use a combination of third-party and technology and mentoring to give them internal technology resources to build We are also working closely with the confidence they need to succeed seamless, feature-rich integrations regulators and customers on the in setting up their own business.
that connect our payment systems into implications of PSD2 and the details our partners platforms.
This enables of its implementation.
Overall we see In November, we were delighted to customers to do business with Worldpay an opportunity in PSD2 to help our support The Princes Trust Christmas more quickly, more easily and more cost customers to navigate this new Fayre, which brought together young effectively.
We then work closely with payments landscape.
entrepreneurs who have been on The key stakeholders in these businesses Trusts enterprise programme to sell their to ensure they are educated in the products as Christmas presents.
To help propositions we create.
The more the businesses, we offered payment effectively we educate, the stronger our terminals and technical support so they partnerships become and the more able could take card payments at the event.
we are to deliver value to customers.
In 2017, we aim to establish similar charity partnerships in our global offices that Worldpay maintains relationships with continue our focus on enabling enterprise.
the major international credit and debit card schemes either via direct licensing or indirect sponsorship via bank partnerships.
Worldpay is a member of the Visa and Mastercard schemes in Europe and has Visa and Mastercard licences in Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia as well as indirect licences for Visa and Mastercard through bank partnerships in the United States, Canada and India.
