Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 65 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate The Company has also early adopted The Board has a schedule of matters Governance Code and complied with the additional reserved for its approval and has a This report sets out how the Company requirements introduced in the April formal structure of delegated authority, applied the principles of the UK Corporate 2016 edition of the Code as explained whereby specified aspects of management Governance Code the Code and its in the Audit Committee section of this and control of the Group have been compliance with the provisions of the report on pages 71 to 74. delegated to the Board Committees, Code in the year.
the Executive Directors, the Group The Groups business model Executive Team and the operating Since the IPO of the Company in October and strategy division management teams.
The Board 2015, the Board has made significant The Groups business model and has agreed the terms of reference for progress to ensure its governance strategy are summarised on pages the Audit, Group Risk, Nomination arrangements meet the expectations 14 to 21 of this report.
and Remuneration Committees and of shareholders and, before the end of the role and responsibilities documents the year, full compliance with the Code.
Responsibilities of the Board for the Chairman, the Chief Executive This is explained in more detail throughout of Directors Officer and the Senior Independent this report.
As this was a year of transition, The Board is responsible for the Director, all of which can be found full compliance with the September 2014 long-term success of the Group and on the Groups investor site at edition of the Code in respect of the for ensuring that there is a framework http: investors.
following provisions was only achieved of prudent and effective controls, The Board and the Committees, with part way through the year: which enables risk to be assessed and the support of the Group Company Code provision B.
The Board sets the Companys Secretary, ensure the workflow of the Independent Non-Executive Directors strategic aims, ensures that the necessary Board and Committees is compliant although two new Independent financial and human resources are with the requirements of the above Non-Executive Directors were in place for the Company to meet its documents.
The powers of the Directors appointed on 1 January and 1 July objectives and reviews management are set out in the Companys Articles of 2016, full compliance with this performance.
The Board also sets Association.
These are also available on provision was achieved from the Companys values and standards the Groups corporate website.
9 September when the two and ensures that its obligations to its non-independent private equity shareholders and others are understood representative Directors resigned and met.
from the Board see page 67 : Code provision B.
6 Board and Committee evaluation conducted in the autumn and discussed by the Board in December 2016 see pages Governance structure 69 to 70 : Code provision C. 3 Membership of The Board the Audit Committee full compliance Board responsibilities and activity, reported on pages 65 to 67 from 1 July 2016 when Karen Richardson was appointed as the third Independent Non-Executive Director member Audit Group Risk Nomination Remuneration of the Audit Committee and the Committee Committee Committee Committee Companys Chairman stood down from membership of that Committee: and Committee report Committee report Committee report Committee report page 71 page 75 page 76 page 78 Code provision D. 2 Membership of the Remuneration Committee full compliance from 29 January 2016 Executive Team when Deanna Oppenheimer was See pages 62 to 64 appointed as the third Independent Non-Executive Director member of Enterprise Risk Operating division Disclosure the Remuneration Committee and Management Committee management teams Committee the Companys Chairman stood down See page 79 See page 79 See page 79 from membership of that Committee.
66 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Matters reserved for the Board The roles and activities of the Boards presents a detailed analysis of the In accordance with its schedule of Committees are described on pages financial performance, both at Group matters reserved, the Board is 71 to 78. and operating division levels.
In view of specifically responsible for: their critical importance to the business Approval of the Groups strategic Board activity during the period of the Group, the Board reviews progress aims and objectives: At each Board meeting, the Chief on the new payments platform and Approval of the annual operating and Executive Officer presents a cyber-security at each of its meetings.
capital expenditure budgets, including comprehensive update on the strategy This is in addition to the regular in-depth all investments in excess of 20m and trading performance across the review by the Audit Committee of or otherwise as required under the Group and the Chief Financial Officer assurance work in respect of the new Boards delegation of authority: Approval of any material extension of the Groups activities into new business or geographic areas: At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged its responsibilities and, Oversight of the Groups operations in particular, it reviewed: and review of performance against the Groups annual budget and its strategic aims and objectives: Approval of annual and half-year Strategy Trading and financial performance results and any other Group trading or interim statements, the Annual Report and Accounts, accounting policies and, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and subject to shareholder approval, the appointment Review of the annual and half-year reports The Groups 2017 budget and declaration of the interim dividend and remuneration of the external auditors: Approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment of interim and the recommendation of final dividends: Reports from the Companys brokers in Oversight of the work conducted by, and Changes to the Groups capital respect of market consensus, share price reports from, the Boards Audit, Nomination, structure and the issue of any performance and shareholder feedback Remuneration and Group Risk Committees securities: Determining and monitoring the Groups risk appetite, systems of internal control, corporate governance structures, practices and approval The Groups Public Policy programme Assessments of the likely impact of Brexit authorities: Upon the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, determining the Groups remuneration policy and the remuneration The appointment of Independent The new payments platform and arrangements of the Executive Non-Executive Directors on the cyber-security, including an independent recommendation of the Directors and other senior executives, review of cyber-security Nomination Committee monitoring executive performance and succession planning: and Establishing and reviewing the Groups culture, values and standards, and Corporate governance: Tax strategy and policy ensuring that the Groups obligations available on the Groups investor site at are understood and met.
com Updates on key corporate developments Re-appointment of KPMG as auditors The Board has a forward schedule Revised processes and controls in of work to ensure that it meets its compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation responsibilities during the course of Board and Committee evaluation review the current financial year.
This has been see page 69 and 70 developed and enhanced in the first full year following the IPO in October 2015.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 67 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 payments platform and by the Group Board changes during the year Committee membership changes Risk Committee in respect of IT risk and There were a number of directorate during the year cyber-security.
Senior executives below changes during the year, resulting in the The appointment of additional Board level attend relevant parts of achievement of an appropriate balance Independent Non-Executive Board and Committee meetings in order of independence to the composition of Directors during the year allowed to make presentations on their areas of the Board and the Committees in full the strengthening of the Committees, responsibility.
This gives the Board compliance with the Code.
bringing the membership of the Audit access to a broader group of executives and Remuneration Committees in line and helps the Directors make Deanna Oppenheimer and Karen with the requirements of the Code.
assessments when considering the Richardson joined the Board as Groups succession plans.
The Board Independent Non-Executive Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed continually reviews the Groups strategy Directors on 1 January and 1 July Chair of the Group Risk Committee at at each of its meetings and, in addition, 2016, respectively.
On 9 September the same time as her appointment to holds one dedicated full day strategy 2016, James Brocklebank and Robin the Board on 1 January 2016 and was meeting each year.
Marshall, who were not independent appointed as the third independent being representatives of Advent and member of the Remuneration Committee Board composition Bain respectively under the Relationship on 29 January 2016, at which time Sir As at 31 December 2016, the Board Agreement with the Company resigned Michael Rake who had been a member comprised the Non-Executive from the Board upon Advent and Bain in the period since the IPO stood Chairman, three Executive Directors reducing their combined holding down down from that Committee.
Deanna and four Independent Non-Executive to 10.7%.
Oppenheimer also joined the Nomination Directors.
Their biographical details Committee on 1 October 2016. can be found on pages 59 to 61 and Deanna has extensive knowledge on the Groups investor site at and experience in retail banking and Karen Richardson was appointed as the http: investors.
financial services as well as significant third independent member of the Audit leadership skills.
Karen has a wealth Committee upon her appointment to The Chairman of experience and insight in the the Board on 1 July 2016, at which time Sir Michael Rake was the Chairman technology sector.
Both have significant Sir Michael Rake, who had been a throughout the year and to the date Board level experience at international member in the period since the IPO, of this report.
He was independent on UK listed plcs.
stood down from that Committee.
Karen was also appointed as a member The search, selection and appointment of the Nomination Committee and the The roles of the Chairman and Chief process for Independent Non-Executive Group Risk Committee on 1 July and Executive Officer are separate and Directors is fully described in the 1 October 2016, respectively.
There are Board-approved Nomination Committee section Roles and Responsibilities documents on pages 76 to 77.
The current compositions of the Boards for both positions, which clearly Committees are shown in the relevant set out in writing their respective When appointing new Independent Committee sections on pages 71 to 78. responsibilities.
These documents Non-Executive Directors, the Board can be found on the Groups investor has regard for its Board Appointments Directors conflicts of interest site at http: investors.
Policy, which provides for diversity The Companies Act has codified the across a range of measures, including Directors duty to avoid a situation in The Senior Independent Director skills, experience and gender in order which they have, or can have, an interest Martin Scicluna was the Senior to meet the needs of the business.
that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, Independent Director throughout The Board Appointments Policy can with the interests of the Company.
the year and to the date of this report.
be found on the Groups investor site A Director will not be in breach of that duty The Senior Independent Director is at http: investors.
if the relevant matter has been authorised available to shareholders should they in accordance with the Articles of have concerns that cannot be resolved Association by the other Directors.
through the normal channels involving the Executive Directors or the Chairman.
The Board-approved Role and Responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director are set out in writing and can be found on the Groups investor site at http: investors.
68 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued The Board has established a process to initially appointed for a three-year term, organisation.
This will increase the identify and authorise conflicts.
As part subject to review by the Nomination Boards presence across the Group of that process, it has also agreed that Committee and continued annual and continuously develop the Boards the Nomination Committee should election by shareholders.
understanding of the business and its review the authorised conflicts every evaluation of management talent and six months or more frequently if a new Board induction and development succession planning.
potential conflict arises for an existing An induction programme tailored to Director.
The Nomination Committee meet the needs of individual Directors Operation of the Board and its Committees reviews the interests of candidates is provided for each new Director.
This Prior to each scheduled Board meeting, prior to making recommendations programme has evolved as we build on the Chairman meets with the Independent for the appointment of new Directors.
the experience of inducting each new Non-Executive Directors in the absence The Nomination Committee and Board Director.
Overall, the aim of the induction of the Executive Directors.
Prior to applied the above principles and process programme is to introduce new Directors their resignation from the Board on throughout the period to the date of this to the Groups business, its operations 9 September 2016, these meetings report and confirm that these have and its governance arrangements.
also took place in the absence of operated effectively.
James Brocklebank and Robin Marshall, Such inductions typically include on-site neither of whom were independent.
Confirmation of Director independence meetings with senior management, At its March 2017 meeting, as part both at the Group level and within the The Directors have access to a fully of a thorough review of corporate operating divisions, where they receive encrypted electronic portal system, governance against the Code, the a thorough briefing on the business which enables them to receive and Board considered the independence and meet with the management teams.
review Board and Committee papers of the Non-Executive Directors against Individual induction requirements are quickly and securely using electronic the criteria specified in the Code and monitored by the Chairman, with the tablets.
Scheduled Board and Committee determined that John Allan, Deanna support of the Group Company meetings are held physically and most Oppenheimer, Karen Richardson and Secretary, to ensure that newly ad-hoc meetings are held by phone.
appointed Directors gain sufficient The Group Company Secretary attends knowledge about the Group to enable all Board meetings.
In reaching the above determination them to contribute to the Boards of independence, the Board considered deliberations as swiftly as possible.
The papers in respect of the Audit, Group the following: Risk, Nomination and Remuneration That John Allan and Deanna A series of development and strategy Committees are circulated to all the Oppenheimer hold the positions of support presentations covering the Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Chairman and Senior Independent Companys strategy and the potential Committee membership.
Major decisions Non-Executive Director, respectively opportunities and threats from future taken under the Groups Delegation at Tesco plc: and industry developments was given to the of Authority are reported to the next That Sir Michael Rake and Karen Board in the first half of the year which, in Board meeting.
Richardson hold the positions of addition to the normal business reviews Chairman and Independent Nonat each meeting, ensured that all the The Group Company Secretary, who was Executive Director, respectively at non-executive members of the Board had appointed by the Board, is responsible for BT Group plc.
sufficient and equal knowledge about the advising and supporting the Chairman, Group in order to contribute fully to the the Board and its Committees on The Board agreed that each of John Boards annual strategy meeting in June corporate governance matters as well Allan, Deanna Oppenheimer, Karen 2016.
Since then, and in response to the as ensuring that there is a smooth flow of Richardson and Martin Scicluna is Boards request, the strategic content of information to enable effective decision independent in character and judgement Board meetings has increased.
All Directors have access to and the above matters have not series of development and strategy the advice and services of the Group restricted or impaired his or her support presentations has been Company Secretary and, through him, effectiveness and independence.
scheduled for 2017. have access to independent professional advice in respect of their duties, at Re-appointment of Directors The Board agreed, during its evaluation the Companys expense.
The Group In accordance with the Code and the discussion in December 2016, to increase Company Secretary acts as secretary Companys Articles of Association, all the frequency of interaction between to the Board and its Committees.
Derek Directors are subject to election by the Non-Executive Directors and the Woodward has held the position of Group shareholders.
The Board has agreed that members of the Executive Team, the Company Secretary from 10 January the Directors will be subject to annual operating division management teams 2016.
His biographical details can be election.
Non-Executive Directors are and high potential talent throughout the found on page 62.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 69 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 In accordance with its Articles of meeting and was briefed afterward on Process Association, the Company has granted the meeting discussions.
The Group Company Secretary prepared a qualifying third-party indemnity, to the a comprehensive questionnaire in extent permitted by law, to each Director Board evaluation respect of the effectiveness of the Board, and the Group Company Secretary.
The The Board recognises the benefit the Committees and the individual Company also maintains Directors and of a thorough Board and Committee Directors.
A separate questionnaire was Officers liability insurance.
evaluation process to monitor and prepared in respect of the evaluation of improve its effectiveness.
These questionnaires Board meetings and attendance at the start of the year that the best time were reviewed and approved by the The Board and its Committees have to conduct this exercise would be around Chairman and Senior Independent regular scheduled meetings throughout the first anniversary of the IPO in the Director respectively before being the year and supplementary meetings autumn of 2016, thereby allowing the issued to each of the Directors.
are held as and when necessary.
review of a full year of operation.
In 2016, The table below shows the number the evaluation was facilitated by the Upon receipt of the completed of scheduled Board and scheduled Group Company Secretary, who has questionnaires, the Group Company Committee meetings attended by each direct experience in this field at other Secretary prepared two reports, which Director out of the number convened organisations and who also had first included recommendations for future during the time served by each Director hand experience of the evolution actions and improvements: one in on the Board or relevant Committee and progression of the Board and respect of the Board, Committees during the period.
Each of the current Committees, having joined shortly and individual Directors: and the other Directors attended all scheduled after the IPO.
in respect of the Chairman.
The Group Company Secretary Each Committee member attended all presented these reports to the Board Committee meetings except for one at its meeting in December 2016.
Audit Committee meeting in the case of Sir Michael Rake and one Nomination Committee meeting in the case of Deanna Oppenheimer, both cases which were due to an unavoidable business commitment.
In each case, the Director Individual Director attendance at scheduled meetings in the year gave input to the Chairman of the Current Directors meeting on the business to be conducted prior to the meeting and Board Audit Group Risk Nomination Remuneration Name scheduled Committee Committee Committee Committee was briefed afterward on the meeting 1 Sir Michael Rake 9 9 2 3 n a 7 7 1 1 discussions.
Each of the Directors has given a firm commitment to being able Martin Scicluna 9 9 7 7 4 4 7 7 4 4 to give sufficient time to enable them John Allan 9 9 7 7 4 4 7 7 4 4 to fulfil their duties, including the 2 Deanna Oppenheimer 9 9 n a 4 4 1 2 3 3 attendance of meetings, in 2017.
3 Karen Richardson 5 5 4 4 1 1 4 4 n a Philip Jansen 9 9 n a n a n a n a As well as the scheduled meetings, eight Ron Kalifa 9 9 n a n a n a n a additional Board meetings were also Rick Medlock 9 9 n a n a n a n a held.
These were mainly in respect of strategic matters that the Chairman and 1 Sir Michael Rake resigned from the Remuneration Committee on 29 January 2016 and the Audit Committee on 1 July 2016.
Chief Executive Officer decided should 2 Deanna Oppenheimer joined the Remuneration Committee on 29 January 2016 and the Nomination be considered by the Board prior to the Committee on 1 October 2016. next scheduled meeting.
Despite these 3 Karen Richardson joined the Board, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee on 1 July 2016 and the Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2016. meetings being held at relatively short notice, there was full attendance at each Former Directors of those meetings other than one meeting in the case of Ron Kalifa which Board Audit Group Risk Nomination Remuneration Name scheduled Committee Committee Committee Committee was due to short notice of the meeting James Brocklebank 5 6 n a n a n a n a and an unavoidable overseas business commitment.
Ron Kalifa gave input to Robin Marshall 3 6 n a n a n a n a the Chairman of the meeting on the Note: business to be conducted prior to the James Brocklebank and Robin Marshall resigned from the Board on 9 September 2016.
70 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Board evaluation summary of outputs The key actions following the discussion shared view amongst the Executive and There was a shared view that the by the Board are given in the table below.
Non-Executive Directors that the Board, Board and the Committees had made under the leadership of the Chairman, significant progress in the year since Arrangements have been put in place had made solid progress since the IPO in the IPO, but recognition that there are to address the agreed actions which October 2015, focusing on the important opportunities for further development.
will be monitored by the Chairman with strategic and operational issues as well Positive comments were made in respect the support of the Group Company as achieving the highest standards of of the transition from private equity Secretary.
Progress will be regularly corporate governance, fully compliant ownership to listed company status, reported to the Board.
the composition of the Board and Committees, the focus on the important Chairman evaluation Executive Directors strategic and operational issues, good The Non-Executive Directors, under the The Groups performance management levels of management transparency leadership of the Senior Independent system applies to management at all within quality papers and a good balance Director and with input from the levels.
The individual performance of of support and challenge from the NEDs: Executive Directors, conducted an the Executive Directors is reviewed in addition, a wealth of constructive evaluation of the Chairman.
The outputs separately by the Chairman and the feedback was given to improve the from that evaluation were debated by the Remuneration Committee.
Further effectiveness of the Board and Board in the absence of the Chairman details of the Executive Directors Committees.
There were no concerns and feedback given to him by the Senior performance measures and objectives raised in respect of individual Directors.
There was a are given in the Remuneration report on pages 82 and 95.
Future evaluations The Board has agreed that the evaluation Outputs and agreed actions from the 2016 Board and Committee evaluation exercise in 2017 will be conducted internally by the Group Company Secretary and in 2018 by an external Outputs: Agreed actions: facilitator, as required by the Code.
Continuously enhance the Boards knowledge Increase the frequency of interaction between and understanding of the industry and the the Non-Executive Directors and the business: build the Boards presence across members of the Executive Team, the operating the organisation: and evaluate management division management teams and high talent and succession planning.
potential talent throughout the organisation.
Continue with strategic reviews at each Board meeting, but be more cognisant of potential Greater focus to be included in strategy changes to our industry, e. g. technology Board papers.
Greater oversight of embedding culture and To be reviewed in H1 2017.
Ongoing oversight policies throughout the organisation.
Group of policies and three lines of defence model Risk Committee to continue with oversight by the Group Risk Committee.
of embedding three lines of defence model.
Continue with the search for one additional Nomination Committee will conduct Independent Non-Executive Director.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 71 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Review the content of the Annual The Boards Committees Report and advise the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and The Audit Committee has understandable: focused on the integrity of Audit Committee Review the Companys internal financial controls and the Groups our financial statements, internal control and risk management the strengthening of Group systems: Review and assess the annual Group Internal Audit and the Internal Audit Plan: Monitor and review the effectiveness effectiveness of controls, of the Companys internal audit including those specifically function: Establish and oversee the Companys in respect of the new relationship with its external auditor, including the monitoring of their payments platform.
independence, and the level of the non-audit fees paid to them, and Committee Chairman: the approval of the external auditors Martin Scicluna remuneration and terms of engagement: Review and approve the annual Other members: Composition of the Committee external audit plan: and John Allan, CBE Martin Scicluna and John Allan were Assess the effectiveness of the Karen Richardson appointed to the Committee prior to external audit process.
Karen Richardson was Number of meetings held in 2016: appointed to the Committee as the third The Committee has a forward work independent member on 1 July 2016, on programme and in December 2016, which date Sir Michael Rake, who had with the support of the Group Company been a member in the period since the Secretary, it reviewed its activities Meetings also regularly attended by: IPO, stood down from that Committee.
against the requirements of its terms of Philip Jansen, Chief Executive In July 2016, the Nomination Committee reference to ensure that it had met its Officer: conducted a thorough review of the skills responsibilities.
To enable it to carry out Rick Medlock, Chief Financial and experience of the Directors mapped its duties and responsibilities effectively, Officer: against the Groups current and future the Committee relies on information Ruth Prior, Chief Operating requirements and agreed that the Audit and support from management Officer : Committee as a whole has competence across the business.
The full terms Michelle Valentine, Group Financial relevant to the sector in which the of reference of the Committee are Controller: Company operates as required by available on the Groups investor site Tim Leather, Chief Internal Auditor: the 2016 edition of the Code.
com or Derek Woodward, Group Company from the Group Company Secretary Secretary: Role of the Committee at the Companys registered office.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing the financial Principal activities of the Audit The Board has agreed that Martin Scicluna reporting, internal and external audit and Committee during the year has recent and relevant financial experience controls.
In accordance with its terms of During the year, the Committee reviewed and that the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in reference, the Committee, which reports the following: which the Company operates, as required its findings to the Board, is authorised to: by the Code.
Ruth Prior was appointed Chief Operating Monitor the integrity of the financial Financial Officer on 1 January 2017, prior to which statements including annual and The integrity of the 2015 full year and date she was the Deputy CFO.
half-year results and any Group the 2016 half-year results including trading or interim statements, a review of significant accounting including a review of the significant issues and judgements set out in financial reporting judgements separate comprehensive reports contained in them: prepared by Group Finance and Link to: the processes underpinning their Directors biographies preparation, verification and pages 59-61 management sign-offs: 72 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Information in support of the Group Internal Audit A policy is in place which requires all statements in relation to going Prior to the IPO, the Committee decided material non-audit work proposed to concern, longer-term viability, to strengthen the Internal Audit function, be carried out by the external auditor to internal control, fair, balanced leading to the appointment in September be pre-authorised by the Chief Financial and understandable, and disclosure 2015 of a highly experienced Chief Officer and or the Committee in order of information to the auditor.
With the support to ensure that the provision of non-audit and authority of the Committee and services does not impair the external External audit executive management, the new Chief auditors independence or objectivity.
The annual audit plan and scope Internal Auditor re-resourced and This policy was updated to ensure that and the audit engagement letter: thereby significantly enhanced the skills it is compliant with the FRC Ethical The auditors year end report: of the Internal Audit function.
This Standard 2016 and the external auditor The auditors management letter on resulted in a major improvement in cannot be engaged in respect of services controls following the 2015 audit and the quality and coverage of the third prohibited by that Standard.
The policy is an update at the end of 2016 on the line of defence assurance work provided published on the Groups investor site at progress made by management.
The skills enhancement http: investors.
programme and the output from the Internal audit and controls Internal Audit Function was monitored An analysis of the fees earned by the The strengthening and resourcing and reviewed throughout the year by Groups auditor for audit and non-audit of the internal audit function: the Committee.
A formal review of the services is disclosed in Note 2e to the The internal audit plan for 2016 and, effectiveness of that function will be financial statements.
Of the 1.6m total towards the end of 2016, the plan conducted in 2017. fee payable to KPMG in 2016, 0.9m was for 2017: paid in respect of the audit of the Groups The reports from internal External auditor Annual Report and Accounts and 0.7m audit activity: On 19 September 2012, KPMG was was payable in respect of other non-audit The new payments platform appointed as the auditors to the and assurance services.
Worldpay Group and Michael Harper, a Partner of KPMG, was appointed Senior KPMG have confirmed their independence Governance Statutory Auditor.
In compliance with as auditor of the Company in a letter The effectiveness of the external audit partner rotation requirements in the addressed to the Directors.
process and the re-appointment of FRC Ethical Standard, Michael Harper the auditor: will stand down from this position at Following the process adopted in 2016, Separate meetings with the Group the conclusion of the Worldpay AGM the Audit Committee reviewed the Internal Auditor and the external to be held on 10 May 2017 and, subject effectiveness of the external audit auditor in the absence of to the re-appointment of KPMG by process at its meeting in February 2017. management: shareholders at the AGM, will be This included reviewing comprehensive The appointment of a new Statutory succeeded by John Bennett, Partner, papers from both management and Auditor see opposite : KPMG.
John Bennetts appointment the external auditor, which set out the Policy review and approval: was approved by the Audit Committee, planning and execution of the conduct Non-audit services by the following a thorough process involving of the audit.
The Audit Committee also external auditor: the CFO and the Chairman of the Audit held separate meetings with the external Financial Accounting: Committee.
The Company is required to auditor in the absence of management Financial Reporting: put the external audit contract out to and with management in the absence Tax Strategy published tender no later than 2022 and currently of the external auditor.
Upon the on the Groups investor site at has no intention to do so in 2017. recommendation of the Audit Committee, http: investors.
com: KPMG will be proposed for re-election Changes to the UK Corporate by shareholders at the AGM to be held Governance Code: on 10 May 2017.
In reaching its decision A review of the Committees activities to propose KPMG for re-election, the against its terms of reference.
Audit Committee took into account the effectiveness of the external audit process, and the objectivity and independence and the length of tenure of KPMG as external auditor.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 73 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee in relation to the financial statements Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern: Management reviewed the appropriateness of The Committee considered papers prepared by management preparing the Group financial statements for the half year and and, taking into account the key assumptions and risks and full year on a going concern basis and presented papers to the theexternal auditors review of these papers, concluded that Committee in August 2016 and February 2017. managements recommendation to prepare accounts on a goingconcern basis was appropriate.
The Groups accounting policies and application of them: Each Having considered the paper, the Committee agreed with year, the Group Accounting Policies Committee conducts a managements proposals.
review of the Groups accounting policies toensure they remain appropriate.
The findings from thisreview were presented to the Audit Committee in December2016 as part of the Financial Controller update.
Correspondence with the Financial Reporting Council FRC : The Committee reviewed managements responses to the In the latter part of 2016 and early 2017, the Group received FRC letters and agreed with their content, providing approval and responded to correspondence from the FRCs Corporate for each letter to be submitted.
In addition, the Committee discussed with management and the external auditor the Governance & Reporting Division in relation to the Groups completeness and quality of the disclosures in the Annual Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
The majority of the queries Report and Accounts 2016 in light of the correspondence with raised by the FRC related to additional clarification and the FRC during the year and the latest guidance issued by the explanation which were dealt with satisfactorily in our FRC.
The Committee approved the Annual Report and Accounts responses.
However, in a small number of cases, undertakings 2016.
All queries are now closed.
were made to present information differently in the Groups financial statements or to provide additional explanatory notes to the financial statements.
Presentation of financial information: Following the The Committee considered managements proposals and correspondence with the FRC, management proposed a agreedto adopt them.
number of changes to the presentation of finance income and costs on the face of the income statement.
Disposal of Visa Europe membership shares and valuation of The Committee considered the paper prepared by management, related CVR liabilities: On 21 June 2016, the Group disposed and, following discussions with management and theexternal of its interest in Visa Europe to Visa Inc. and received a auditor who also provided critical challenge and assessment mixture of cash and non-cash consideration valued at of the key accounting judgements, the Committee endorsed 1,051m.
On disposal, the Visa Europe membership shares managements proposals.
were derecognised from the Groups balance sheet and the elements of consideration recognised along with the corresponding tax liabilities and liabilities in respect of ongoing interchange litigation related to Visa Europe.
The CVR liabilities have also been revalued to reflect the impact of the transaction.
Management prepared and presented a paper to the Committee which discussed the accounting on disposal.
Audit procedures performed by KPMG and reported to the Committee included an assessment of the facts and circumstances and rights and obligations attached to the various elements of the consideration and CVR liabilities: a review of the key input assumptions in arriving at the profit on disposal and the valuation of certain elements of consideration and the CVR liabilities: and a review of the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the transaction.
74 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee Separately disclosed items: The Group has an established The Committee considered managements presentation of policy of separately disclosing items that it believes, due to all separately disclosed items and agreed with its proposed their size or nature, are not the result of normal operating presentation.
Of particular note was the discussion around performance and should be disclosed separately to allow a the profit on disposal of the Visa Europe asset and related more comparable view of underlying trading performance.
revaluation of the elements of consideration received and the CVR liabilities.
Having considered this specific matter, the Committee agreed to adopt managements proposed presentation.
Transaction-based revenue and settlement balances: The Committee reviewed the strategy document presented The processing of payments, from which the Group generates by KPMG and agreed with the assessment of significant risks the vast majority of its revenues, is dependent on highly in relation to the audit.
The Committee also reviewed the complex IT systems with a number of different bases for findings of the external auditor at both the half year and the calculating revenue and for settling funds.
Audit procedures year end in respect of the risk.
performed by KPMG and reported to the Committee The Committee would review any changes in accounting policy, included: testing the design, implementation and material unusual transactions or any other matters brought to operating effectiveness of applicable controls: performing their attention by management in respect of the risk there reconciliations of cash received to revenue recognised werenone during the current year.
in the year: and obtaining third-party verification of settlement amounts.
Where applicable, IT audit experts were also used The controls and processes implemented by management throughout the audit process.
areconsistent with previous years and are considered to be appropriate by the Committee.
Considering all of the above, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the appropriateness of the reported numbers and the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016.
Trade receivables impairment and related provisions: The Committee reviewed the strategy document presented by Provisions are made in respect of impairment of trade KPMG and agreed with the assessment of significant risks in receivables where there is objective evidence that the relation to the audit.
The Committee also reviewed the findings Group cannot recover the original expected cash flows from of the external auditor at both the half year and the year end in the trade receivable due to events since the trade receivable respect of the risk.
wasinitially recognised, or where a merchant defaults or is The Committee would review any changes in accounting policy, expected to default on their obligation to deliver services for material unusual transactions or any other matters brought to which the Group has already processed the corresponding their attention by management in respect of the risk there payment transaction.
The provisioning policy is reviewed werenone during the current year.
annually by management to ensure it is still appropriate andbad debt provisions are discussed as part of the monthly The controls and processes implemented by management management accounts review process.
Material bad debts areconsistent with previous years and are considered to be are reported to the Audit Committee.
Audit procedures appropriate by the Committee.
performed by KPMG and reported to the Committee included: assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of Considering all of the above, the Committee concluded that thekey controls within the Groups merchant onboarding itwas satisfied with the appropriateness of the reported andongoing monitoring processes: consideration of cash numbers and the disclosures in the Annual Report and collection from merchants subsequent to the year-end: and Accounts 2016. acritical assessment of the output of the Groups internal monitoring and review processes.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 75 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Reviewed the enterprise risk The Boards Committees management framework and the plans to relaunch it across the Group: With the support of Reviewed the risk and compliance work plans for the year, ensuring they the Enterprise Risk Group Risk were fit for purpose and adequately Management Committee, resourced: Committee Reviewed regular reports from the the Group Risk Committee Group Compliance Director and the Chief Risk Officer, including progress has focused on reviewing reports against their annual work plans: existing and emerging Developed the approach to its work programme for the year ahead, risks and the development including the division of work between and embedding of the Group Risk Committee and the Audit Committee: the Enterprise Risk Reviewed the Groups principal risks and approved the reporting of those risks Management Framework in the annual and half-year reports: and relevant policies Reviewed the Groups Policy Framework and, on a rolling annual Committee Chairman: across the organisation.
programme, reviewed and approved Deanna Oppenheimer the Groups Level 1 policies: Reviewed matters raised by Other members: colleagues under the Groups John Allan, CBE whistleblowing arrangements: Karen Richardson Composition of the Committee Conducted deep dive risk and control Martin Scicluna Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed to reviews into various areas of the the Committee as Chair on 1 January business, including Technology and Number of meetings held in 2016: 2016.
John Allan and Martin Scicluna specifically the issues in respect of were also members throughout the year.
the High Capacity Gateway HCG, Karen Richardson was appointed as a data security, online gambling and member of the Committee with effect high risk sectors.
Meetings also regularly attended by: from 1 October 2016.
Philip Jansen, Chief Executive The Committee has a forward work Officer: Role of the Committee programme and in November 2016, Rick Medlock, Chief Financial The Board has delegated to the with the support of the Group Company Officer: Committee responsibility to articulate Secretary, it reviewed its activities against Ron Kalifa, Vice Chairman and the Boards risk appetite to management the requirements of its terms of reference Executive Director: and to review the Groups enterprise risk to ensure that it had met its responsibilities.
Ian Whyte, Chief Risk Officer: management framework, key risks and To enable it to carry out its duties and Group General Counsel Mark emerging risks that may affect the responsibilities effectively, the Committee Edwards in the year, Ruwan fide long-term success of the Group.
relies on information and support from Soyza from 1 January 2017 : management across the business.
Tim Minall, Group Compliance The full terms of reference of Director: the Committee are available Risk appetite and approach to Lisa Willoughby, Group Head of on the Groups investor site at risk management Enterprise Risk Management: http: investors.
com or The Boards risk appetite and the Groups Derek Woodward, Group Company from the Group Company Secretary approach to risk management are more Secretary.
at the Companys registered office.
fully described in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 33 to 46.
Principal activities of the Group Such a system is designed to manage Risk Committee during the period rather than eliminate the risk of failure At its meetings during the year, the to achieve business objectives and Link to: Committee discharged its responsibilities can provide only reasonable, but not Directors biographies as listed above and in particular: absolute, assurance against material pages 59-61 misstatement or loss.
76 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Principal activities of the Nomination The Boards Committees Committee during the year At its meetings during the period, We created a stronger and the Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above balanced Board in 2016.
Nomination and in particular: Conducted a thorough process and Committee made recommendations to the Board to appoint additional Non-Executive Directors to strengthen the Board: Composition of the Committee As part of that process: Sir Michael Rake, Martin Scicluna Reviewed the Boards objectives in and John Allan were members of the terms of balance of independence Committee throughout the year.
Karen and diversity: and Richardson and Deanna Oppenheimer in order to determine the attributes were appointed to the Committee on required of new additional NEDs, 1 July and 1 October 2016 respectively.
conducted a thorough review of the skills and experience of the Role of the Committee Directors mapped against the The Board has delegated to the Groups current and future Committee responsibility for reviewing requirements: and proposing appointments to the Committee Chairman: Considered the independence, Board and for recommending any Sir Michael Rake effectiveness and time commitment other changes to the composition of the of the Directors before making a Board or its Committees.
The principal Other members: recommendation to the Board responsibility of the Committee is to John Allan, CBE regarding their re-election at the make recommendations to the Board Deanna Oppenheimer AGMs held in 2016 and 2017: on all new appointments to the Board, Karen Richardson Reviewed the Directors potential having regard for an appropriate balance Martin Scicluna conflicts of interests: of skills, knowledge, experience and Upon the appointment of additional diversity.
The Committee ensures that Number of meetings held in 2016: independent Non-Executive Directors, there is clarity in respect of the role conducted a review of, and made description and capabilities required recommendations in respect of, for such appointments.
The Committee the memberships of the Boards is also responsible for reviewing, at least Meetings also regularly attended by: Committees: every six months, or more frequently Philip Jansen, Chief Executive Approved an ongoing programme if required, the Directors potential Officer: of engagement meetings between conflicts of interest and for making Andy Doyle, Chief Human Resource the Chairman and NEDs and high recommendations to the Board in Officer: potential talent across the respect of authorising such matters.
Derek Woodward, Group Company organisation: Secretary.
Reviewed Executive Succession The full terms of reference of plans and talent management the Committee are available arrangements: at the Groups investor site at Reviewed the Groups Payments http: investors.
com or Industry Training arrangements: and from the Group Company Secretary Oversight of annual evaluation at the Companys registered office.
process, together with the Group Company Secretary, of Board and Committees to assess overall performance and effectiveness.
Link to: Directors biographies pages 59-61 Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 77 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 In early 2017, the Committee will review Non-Executive appointments the Groups policy and objectives in International search and selection firms, respect of management diversity.
The Zygos Partnership and Spencer Stuart, have been used by the Chairman The Committee has a forward work to identify a range of suitable candidates programme and, in December 2016 for review by the Nomination Committee.
with the support of the Group Company As a result of this process, Deanna Secretary, it reviewed its activities Oppenheimer and Karen Richardson against the requirements of its terms were appointed to the Board on 1 January of reference to ensure that it had met its and 1 July 2016, respectively.
To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, Spencer Stuart and The Zygos the Committee relies on information Partnership also conduct executive and support from the Chief Human search assignments for the Group Resources Officer and the Group from time to time.
Board appointments policy Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating the balance of skills, experience and knowledge of each Director, makes recommendations to the Board.
The Board Appointments Policy recognises the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity, and reinforces the Boards principle that appointments are made on merit, in line with its current and future requirements, and reflect the UK listing and international activity of the Group.
The appointments made prior to the IPO and up to the date of this report have been in line with that policy.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies report entitled Women on Boards and the recently published Hampton-Alexander report entitled FTSE Women Leaders Improving Gender Balance in FTSE Leadership.
A copy of the Groups Board Appointments Policy can be found on the Groups investor site at http: investors.
78 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued The Boards Committees Our remuneration philosophy and framework Remuneration have a strong emphasis Committee on pay for performance and are fully aligned with our strategy.
Composition of the Committee All members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed Committee Chairman: as the third independent member of the John Allan, CBE Committee on 29 January 2016 on which date Sir Michael Rake, who had been a Other members: member of that Committee in the period Deanna Oppenheimer since the IPO, stood down.
John Allan Martin Scicluna and Martin Scicluna were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Number of meetings held in 2016: Principal activities of the Remuneration Committee during the period The Board has delegated to the Committee Meetings also regularly attended by: responsibility for reviewing and proposing Philip Jansen, Chief Executive the appropriate remuneration framework Officer: which can attract, retain and motivate Andy Doyle, Chief HR Officer: key management, whilst ensuring full Martyn Fisher, Reward Director: compliance with best practice expected Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
The Groups Remuneration Policy and a report Neither attends in respect of matters detailing the composition, responsibilities relating to their own remuneration.
and work carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the period, including an explanation of how it applies the Principles of the Code in respect of Executive Directors remuneration, is included within the Remuneration report on pages 82 to 95.
Link to: Directors biographies pages 59-61 Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 79 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Management Committees Enterprise Risk Management Committee Whistleblowing Executive Committee EMRC previously the Group The Worldpay Way also includes full The Chief Executive Officer leads the Governance and Control Committee details of the Groups whistleblowing Executive Committee, which comprises Chaired by the CFO, the ERMC provides helpline, which allows employees to the most senior business leaders and executive management with a forum to raise matters in confidence, should they function heads.
It is responsible for the review risk on an enterprise wide basis not wish to raise them with their line day-to-day management of the Group and provides an escalation point for manager or a member of the Executive and meets monthly to focus on a range operating division risks.
All matters raised through of issues in relation to the strategic also reviews the activities of the Groups the helpline are investigated thoroughly and operational development and assurance functions and operational by management and regardless of performance of the businesses.
The risk profile and approves the annual the outcome, reported to the Group biographical details of the members of Compliance and Risk plans for review Risk Committee.
the Executive Committee are disclosed by the Group Risk Committee.
The on pages 62 to 64. membership of this Committee includes Risk management and internal control executive management, the Chief Risk A risk aware culture is embedded Operating division management teams Officer, the Chief Internal Auditor, the throughout the organisation with The Groups operating divisions Global Chief Information Security Officer, the every single employee responsible for eCom, WPUK and WPUS are managed Group Compliance Director and the the management of risk.
The Groups by their respective CEOs and dedicated Group Company Secretary.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework management teams.
Management was reviewed by the Group Risk team meetings are held monthly Culture and the Worldpay Way Committee and relaunched across to review strategic, operational and The distillation of a set of everyday the organisation.
These meetings working principles and behaviours into are attended by members of the the Worldpay Way sets the tone from the The Group operates a three lines of Executive Committee to ensure top and supports a positive corporate defence model, which clearly identifies sufficient oversight and co-ordination culture.
The Worldpay Way, which was accountabilities and responsibilities on cross-Group developments.
developed and launched in 2015, is based as follows: on three core elements: Work Smart, Disclosure Committee Be Spirited and Be Supportive.
Since 1. Business line management has The Disclosure Committee is responsible its launch the implementation of the primary responsibility for the for implementing and monitoring Worldpay Way has been supported management of risk: systems and controls in respect of the through our leadership teams, backed management of inside information and by internal communications and using 2.
R isk and Compliance Functions assist the disclosure of such information to various training programmes to ensure management in developing their the market in accordance with the it becomes and remains embedded approach to fulfil their responsibilities: Companys obligations under the UK throughout the Group.
In addition to our and Listing Authoritys Disclosure and core management and technical training, Transparency Rules and the Market specific training programmes are in 3.
The Internal Audit function checks Abuse Regulation.
The Committee meets place to support our legal and regulatory that the risk management process to consider the Groups disclosure compliance in areas such as anti-bribery and risk management framework obligations and to review all results and corruption, anti-money laundering, are effective and efficient.
announcements following certification competition law, data protection and from individual executives from across information security.
Participation in Monitoring and reviewing the the Group.
The Committee comprises the these training programmes is mandatory: Groups principal risks is conducted by Chief Executive Officer, who is the and compliance with their requirements management on an ongoing basis, with Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the and the output from our annual colleague oversight being conducted by the ERMC Chief Operating Officer previously the survey is regularly reviewed by the and Group Risk Committee.
Further Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Group Executive Committee and the Board to details of our risk management system General Counsel, the Group Financial ensure we maintain a positive culture and the principal risks of the Group Controller, the Investor Relations Director across the organisation.
and how they are being managed and and the Group Company Secretary.
mitigated are included in the Principal During the year, the terms of reference of Launched in 2015, the Group has its own risks and uncertainties section on pages this Committee and the Groups Control Masters programme qualification in 33 to 46. of Inside Information Policy were revised partnership with Middlesex University.
in line with the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulation.
80 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee oversees the Review of the effectiveness of Review and, where appropriate, activity of the Group Internal Audit GIA the risk management and internal challenge on matters including: function.
The role of GIA is to evaluate control systems the consistency of, and the effectiveness of the Groups risk During the year, the Board, through the any changes to, significant management, control and governance work of the Group Risk Committee and accounting policies and processes.
As mentioned on page 72, the Audit Committee, conducted a practices during the year: the Audit Committee and management review of the effectiveness of the Groups significant adjustments supported the Chief Internal Auditor to system of risk management and internal resulting from the external audit: re-resource and significantly enhance control in line with the FRC guidance in the going concern assumption: the skills of the GIA function.
There is an ongoing process the viability statement: and resulted in a major improvement in for the identification and evaluation of the Companys statement on the quality and coverage of the third risk management and internal control internal control systems.
line of defence assurance work provided processes.
The work conducted by to the Group.
management is complemented, The above process, which is reviewed by supported and challenged by the the Audit Committee, provides comfort A risk-based internal audit plan is controls assurance work carried out to the Board when considering whether prepared by GIA on an annual basis.
independently by the external auditor, the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The audit plan, which is reviewed and KPMG, and the Group Internal Audit are fair, balanced and understandable.
approved by the Audit Committee, function.
Regular reports on control considers key risks and emerging issues are presented to the Audit Fair, balanced and understandable strategic risks maintained in the risk Committee by the Chief Internal Auditor.
The Directors confirm that they consider registers.
In addition, as part of the The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness the Annual Report and Accounts 2016, annual planning cycle, GIA consult with of the system of internal control, can taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Senior Management across the business, confirm that necessary actions have and understandable and provides the consider the results of previous audits been or are being taken to remedy any information necessary for shareholders internal and external and monitor significant failings or weaknesses to assess the Companys position and the implementation status of audit identified from that review.
performance, business model and recommendations.
In making this confirmation, that GIA focuses on the most significant Internal control and risk management in the Directors took into account their risk areas and related key controls.
relation to the financial reporting knowledge of the business, which is kept process up to date with regular reports, updates A formal audit report is issued to the The Group has a thorough assurance and business reviews circulated prior to Audit Committee for each internal audit process in place in respect of the and discussed at each Board meeting, undertaken: this includes an overall preparation, verification and approval and supplemented by a variety of written rating and clear actions to be undertaken of periodic financial reports.
This reports, verbal updates and presentations by management to resolve identified process includes: given at Board and Committee meetings control issues.
GIA monitors management The involvement of highly experienced as well as a regular flow of information response to audit recommendations and professional employees: about the business between meetings.
and reports their findings to the Formal sign-offs from appropriate The Directors then took into account the Audit Committee.
business unit managing directors thorough preparation and verification and finance directors: process in respect of the Annual Report On a day-to-day basis, the Chief Internal Comprehensive review by key internal and Accounts, which included sufficient Auditor reports to the Chief Financial Group functions: time for the Directors to review the Officer.
There is a clear reporting line to A transparent process to ensure Annual Report and Accounts 2016 and the Audit Committee Chair and it is the full disclosure of information to the to feed in their comments to management role of the Audit Committee to assess external auditor: before approving the document.
the performance of the Chief Internal Engagement of a professional and Auditor and Group Internal Audit experienced firm of external auditors: function.
This is stated in the Audit Review and challenge by executive Committee terms of reference.
management: and Oversight by the Groups Audit Committee, involving among other duties : A detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which have been discussed by management: Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 81 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Disclosure of information to auditor US twice, France once, and Germany We supplement the programme Each of the Directors who held office at once, and also attended 17 investment described above with information the date of approval of this Directors bank broker conferences, in the UK, provided through our annual report, report confirms that: so far as he she the US, and continental Europe.
our website and email, with electronic is aware, there is no relevant audit These activities are supplemented communications being the primary information of which the Companys by a substantial number of ad hoc means of distribution to our shareholders auditor is unaware: and that he she meetings, conference calls and and the market more generally.
This has taken all steps that he she ought to day-to-day telephone and email arrangement provides significant have taken as a Director to make him her communications.
benefits for shareholders and the aware of any relevant audit information Company in terms of timeliness of and to establish that the Companys We recognise the importance of our information, reduced environmental auditor is aware of that information.
Board having a strong understanding of impact and cost.
The Groups Annual shareholder views.
Our corporate brokers Report and Accounts are available to Going concern and the investor relations team make all shareholders and can be accessed The Boards statement in respect of regular reports to the Board of investor via the Groups investor site at adopting the going concern basis of perceptions of the Company.
accounting is given in Note 1a to the reports also include commentary Shareholders may still opt to receive financial statements and on page 111. on market expectations, share price their communications in a paper format.
performance and wider peer group The Groups interim results are also Viability and market trends, and feedback from published on the Companys website, The Boards statement in respect of the investors and sell-side analysts.
The together with other announcements Groups longer-term viability is given on Board also welcomes a direct dialogue and documents issued to the market, page 46. with shareholders, and our Group such as trading updates and presentations, Company Secretary, who acts as the first with each of our results presentations Shareholder communication and point of contact in respect of governance also being available as webcasts.
engagement related matters, has written to each Enquiries from shareholders and The Company places considerable of our major shareholders to enquire other market participants may also importance on dialogue with its whether they would find it helpful to be addressed to the Groups investor shareholders and other market deepen their ongoing engagement by relations team through the contacts participants to promote mutual meeting with either the Chairman and or provided on the Groups website.
We have an active the Senior Independent Director.
He also investor relations programme, in which wrote to the Companys major shareholders Board members, senior management immediately after the publication of the and the investor relations team engage Annual Report and Accounts 2015 and with shareholders, potential shareholders Notice of AGM in case they wished to and bondholders: and we also have raise any questions or concerns ahead a strong dialogue with sell-side of lodging their proxy votes.
research analysts who provide analysis, commentary, forecasts and In January 2016, the Chairman of the recommendations to the market.
Remuneration Committee conducted a consultation with the Groups major The investor relations programme is shareholders and shareholder managed by the investor relations representative organisations to gauge function, and the Chief Executive Officer, their views in respect of the Groups the Chief Financial Officer and Vice remuneration policy and framework and Chairman in particular are closely specifically the proposed performance involved in the meeting programme.
measures and targets for the next In 2016, we held over 500 face-to-face award under the Long Term Incentive meetings and conference calls with Plan LTIP.
The views expressed by shareholders and other investors from shareholders were taken into account the UK, continental Europe, North when finalising executive remuneration America, the Middle East and Asia.
of these meetings were arranged either as part of formal investor roadshows or at conferences hosted by investment banks and brokers.
In 2016, we organised investor roadshows in the UK twice, the
