62 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Company Secretary and Executive Team Group Company Secretary Executive Team Derek Woodward Ruth Prior Shane Happach Group Company Secretary Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer, Global eCom Joined Worldpay Group: Joined Worldpay Group: Joined Worldpay Group: January 2016 October 2013 December 2010 Derek has a wealth of experience as Ruth was appointed Chief Operating Shane was appointed Chief Executive Company Secretary of large publicly Officer in 2016, having joined Worldpay Officer of Global eCom division in 2016, listed international companies across a in 2013.
She was previously Group Chief having joined Worldpay in 2010.
Derek was appointed Financial Officer of EMI Group and prior has over 15 years experience in financial Group Company Secretary in January to that worked for the private equity firm services and has significant experience 2016.
Prior to this, he spent seven years Terra Firma Capital Partners as Finance in treasury, M&A and foreign exchange.
as Group Company Secretary of Thomas Director.
She has held senior positions He has held various management Cook Group plc, seven years as Head of within finance and operations, including roles across international markets Secretariat at Centrica plc and three at Whitbread and Bass and Unilever.
and developed key strengths in strategy, years as Company Secretary of Allied Ruth has significant experience across financial planning and new market entry.
Zurich plc, the UK listed holding company a broad range of sectors, particularly of the Zurich Financial Services Group.
in business transformation, mergers Between 1990 and 1998 he was Assistant and acquisitions, and change Secretary of British American Tobacco management.
Ruth is a qualified p. l. c.. Derek is a qualified chartered chartered management accountant.
secretary and serves as Chairman of the ICSA Company Secretaries Forum.
Philip Jansen Chief Executive Officer See page 59 for full biography.
Rick Medlock Chief Financial Officer See page 60 for full biography.
Ron Kalifa Vice Chairman and Executive Director See page 60 for full biography.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 63 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive Team Peter Jackson Kim Crawford Goodman Mark Kimber Chief Executive Officer, Worldpay UK Chief Executive Officer, Worldpay US Chief Information Officer Joined Worldpay Group: Joined Worldpay Group: Joined Worldpay Group: March 2017 November 2016 September 2014 Peter was appointed as Chief Executive Kim was appointed Chief Executive Mark was appointed Chief Information Officer of Worldpay UK in 2017.
He was Officer of Worldpay US in 2016.
She Officer in 2016, having joined Worldpay previously Chief Innovation Officer was previously President of American from J. P. Morgan Chase where he was at Banco Santander, where his remit Express Global Business Travel and Chief Information Officer for EMEA.
Mark covered Openbank, InnoVentures President of Merchant Services has over 20 years experience in financial a $200m VC fund and the innovation Americas.
Prior to joining Amex in 2007, services having held senior technology activities across the Group.
Prior to she held executive positions at Dell Inc. roles within J. P. Morgan Chase as well as Santander, Peter was Group Chief including Vice President of Software Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers.
Mark Executive Officer of Travelex and he and Peripherals, Vice President of Public has extensive expertise of building and has held senior positions at Lloyds Marketing and Transactional Sales, and leading global technology organisations.
Banking Group, Halifax Bank of Scotland, Vice President and General Manager of and McKinsey & Company.
Kim began her career a Non-Executive Director of Paddy at Bain & Company where she served Power Betfair plc, and a member of as Partner, Manager and a Consultant.
their Board Risk and Board Remuneration Kim holds board positions at Brocade Committees.
He is an active angel Communications Systems, Inc. investor in fintech, with a board NASDAQ: BRCD and Charter seat at Aire Labs Ltd, and chairs the Communications NASDAQ: CHTR.
development committee for Pembroke College, Cambridge.
64 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Company Secretary and Executive Team continued Executive Team continued Kevin McCarten Andy Doyle Ruwan fide Soyza Chief Strategy Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Group General Counsel Joined Worldpay Group: Joined Worldpay Group: Joined Worldpay Group: September 2016 May 2013 January 2012 Kevin was appointed Chief Strategy Andy was appointed Chief Human Ruwan was appointed Group General Officer in 2016, having joined Worldpay Resources Officer in 2013.
Prior to joining Counsel in 2016, having joined Worldpay from Oliver Wyman where he was Worldpay, he worked in a number of in 2012.
He has over 17 years of legal responsible for the Global Business and different sectors in companies experience, first as a Corporate and Consumer Services practice and was a experiencing high growth and change.
M&A lawyer with Clifford Chance LLP member of the Oliver Wyman Leadership He was previously Group Human and subsequently in a number of Council.
In addition to 16 years in Resources Director for ITV plc.
He has different businesses including Merchant consulting, advising at board level across worked in operational and senior HR and Retail Banking, Outsourcing and a wide range of industry sectors, Kevin executive roles in the UK, Europe and US Consultancy.
Ruwan is responsible has spent 15 years in consumer products in technology, real estate, construction for the provision of legal services to industries Ford Motor Co. and Procter and leisure retail.
Andy is a Chartered the Worldpay Group and has also been and Gamble, and seven years at board Director and a Chartered Fellow of the interim Head of Franchise Development level in retail including five years as a Chartered Institute of Personnel and and Management since June 2016. main board member at J Sainsbury plc.
Ruwan holds a Diploma in Law from the College of Law, London and is a Solicitor of the Senior Courts of England and Wales.
Link to: Meet the Executive Team online http: investors.
