How we behave and how were rewarded Review of the Companys Succession planning governance and the Nomination and Governance Committee I have had extensive discussions with share owners on the renewal of the compensation policy and the issue of succession and sought to respond to their request for Report by Roberto Quarta greater transparency of reporting and to integrate the Chairman of the Nomination and Board evaluation process with succession planning.
Governance Committee The committee and the full Board fully appreciates that strategic, thoughtful and practical succession planning is critical to the long-term success of the Company.
Nomination and Governance Committee members The Board has for some time had a strategy in and attendance during 2016 place for an agreed or foreseen departure of the senior management team including the CEO and CFO and also Meetings eligible Meetings to attend attended in the event of sudden emergencies, where an individual Roberto Quarta Chairman 4 4 cannot continue working.
Charlene Begley 4 3 Following the recommendations of the external Board Ruigang Li 4 3 evaluation, the Board has made progress in assessing the Daniela Riccardi 4 4 internal and external candidates for CEO and CFO Hugo Shong 4 4 succession and considering internal candidate development Sally Susman 4 4 and skill gaps.
During 2016, the Board has held three detailed senior management and CEO succession planning reviews and has met with the senior management teams Dear share owner of all of the major operating companies within the Group both formally and informally and in many cases the tier Committee responsibilities and how they were of managers below to develop their understanding of the discharged in 2016 diversity of the pipeline of internal candidates and continually reassess the succession plans.
he principal focus of the four meetings of the The committee has also engaged an external search Nomination and Governance committee in firm to work with the committee and Board to identify T 2016 were: suitable and diverse directors in the context of the strategic T succession planning for the CEO and senior development of the Group, which include business-specific I management and review of tenure and independence of the and digital or data analytics expertise, back office non-executive directors: integration, relevant financial experience and UK the appointment of a non-executive director with Latin governance experience.
The external search firm has American experience following the death of Roger Agnelli no other connection with the Group.
and a non-executive director with financial experience to join the Audit Committee: New non-executive director Board evaluation: and the selection of an external search firm to work The Board announced the appointment of Tarek Farahat with the committee and Board on the selection of as a non-executive director on 11 October 2016, following non-executive directors.
the recommendation of the committee which had been assisted in the search process by the external search firm.
Mr Farahat is the Global President for Marketing and Innovation and a Director of JBS S. A. and prior to that spent 26 years at Procter & Gamble in a range of marketing and management roles working across Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America including as head of their operations in Brazil for six years.
Mr Farahats considerable knowledge of Latin America and his proven track record WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 123 How we behave and how were rewarded of running consumer-focused businesses in that market of the external evaluation.
The results of the evaluation as well as the Middle East and Europe together with will be considered in the 2016 Sustainability Report to his relevant financial and global public company board be published in June 2017. experience will enhance our Board effectiveness.
Mr Farahat was appointed to the Audit Committee on Board diversity 24 February 2017 after an initial period of familiarisation with the Group.
The Board confirms its commitment to diversity, including gender at all levels of the Group as well as the Board.
Committee composition The Boards policy on diversity commits WPP to increasing diversity across its subsidiaries and supports the development Pursuant to our non-executive director tenure policy, Tim and promotion of all talented individuals.
As at 31 Shriver will retire at this years AGM having served on the December 2016, women comprised 29% of the WPP Board Board and the Compensation Committee since August and 33% of non-executive directors, including the senior 2007.
Charlene Begley will also retire at this years AGM independent director, and represented eight different due to the pressure of her other US commitments.
Subject nationalities with a broad spectrum of skills, backgrounds to their appointment and reappointment at the AGM and and experience.
The Board intends to restore and, if possible, following the retirement of Tim Shriver and Charlene improve upon the diverse nature of the Board following Begley, the composition of our three main committees will Charlene Begleys retirement at this years AGM.
be as follows: Corporate Governance Nomination and Committee Audit Compensation Governance During the year, the Board was briefed on regulatory composition 2017 Committee Committee Committee and corporate governance developments.
This principally Roberto Quarta l Chair l included the UK Corporate Governance Code guidance Jacques Aigrain Chair l l on audit committees and the changes to the auditor Tarek Farahat l independence rules, the implementation of the Market Sir John Hood Chair l Abuse Regulation and an external report on the role of Ruigang Li l Nomination Committees.
Daniela Riccardi l Hugo Shong l Sustainability Sally Susman l Sol Trujillo l Paul Richardson, chairman of the Companys Sustainability The senior independent director, Nicole Seligman, Committee, presented a comprehensive assessment of the customarily attends all Board committee meetings.
Groups sustainability performance and risks to the committee for 2016.
A more detailed review of our Board and committee evaluation sustainability performance and activities can be read on pages 161 to 167 and in our 2016 2017 Sustainability The annual evaluation of the Boards and all committees Report and Pro bono book to be published in June 2017. effectiveness has been conducted internally by the senior independent director following the externally facilitated Terms of reference evaluation by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited which commenced in 2015 and was concluded in 2016.
The committees terms of reference, which are reviewed Each director completed a confidential questionnaire with the Board annually and most recently in April 2016, and then held separate conversations with the senior are on the Companys website at wpp.
independent director considering the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and an assessment of my performance.
The discussions also considered the progress Roberto Quarta made by the Board in implementing the recommendations 19 April 2017 124 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Review of the Audit Committee reviewing reports on any material litigation or regulatory reviews involving Group companies: reviewing the Groups mergers and acquisitions strategy, Report by Jacques Aigrain any significant acquisitions, the earnout payments profile Chairman of the Audit Committee review and integration processes and the debt financing by the Group: reviewing GroupMs trading model and its risk Audit Committee members and attendance assessment processes: during 2016 reviewing the Groups tax strategy: monitoring the accounting and legal reporting Meetings eligible Meetings to attend attended requirements, including all relevant regulations of the UK Jacques Aigrain Chairman 7 7 Listing Authority, the SEC and NASDAQ and the Jersey Sol Trujillo 7 7 Financial Services Commission and changes to the UK 1 Roger Agnelli 2 2 Corporate Governance Code: Charlene Begley 7 7 overseeing continued compliance with Section 404 1 Roger Agnelli tragically died on 19 March 2016. of SOX, through regular status reports submitted by the internal and external auditors: reviewing the Groups IT Transformation project and Dear share owner shared services initiatives: and reviewing issues raised on our Right to Speak helpline '.
: e held seven meetings during the year, and the actions taken in response to those calls.
which were attended by Deloitte LLP, the.
Companys external auditor, the Companys Fair, balanced and understandable.
W chairman, the senior independent director, the Group finance director, the director of internal audit, A sub-committee of the Board including members of this the Group chief counsel, the Group chief accountant and committee examined whether the Annual Report and the Company Secretary.
The committee also held separate Accounts for 2016 was fair, balanced and understandable private meetings with the external auditor, the director of and provided the information necessary for share owners internal audit and the Group chief accountant.
to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
The sub-committee received an early Committee responsibilities and how they were final draft of the report for review and comment, as well discharged in 2016 as a report from the Disclosure Committee as to the governance relating to compilation of the report.
The The main matters we dealt with during 2016 were as follows: Board subsequently considered the report as a whole and monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial discussed the reports tone, balance and language for statements and reviewing significant financial reporting compliance with these standards.
The Boards statement judgements: on the report is on page 175. reviewing internal controls and internal audit activities: assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities in Financial reporting and significant financial respect of carrying out a robust assessment of the principal judgements risks affecting the Group and reviewing and reporting on the systems and key elements of risk management as they The management team make key decisions and judgements affect the Group and reviewing the risk map and in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
framework for presentation to the Board: These key judgements were detailed in reports to the reviewing the Group Treasury policy with particular committee in respect of 2016 which were then examined focus on debtors, funding foreign exchange and by the committee and discussed with management.
cash management and the continued ability of the Deloitte also reported to and discussed with the Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing committee whether suitable accounting policies had been financial statements: adopted in the financial statements for the year ended 2016 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 125
