2 Governance Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee, which comprises those Directors The Audit Committee has considered the extent and considered to be independent by the Board, met twice during nature of non-audit work performed by PwC and is the course of the year and up to the date of this Annual satisfied that this did not impinge on their independence Report.
Attendance by each Director is shown in the table on and is a cost effective way for the Company to operate.
During the year it was agreed that Sir Martin Smith, 5.
To consider the need for an internal audit function.
Since the Chairman of the Company, should not be a member of the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third the Audit Committee.
parties and has no employees, the Audit Committee has determined there is no requirement for such a function.
Responsibilities The Audit Committees terms of reference are available for The Audit Committees main responsibilities during the year review on the Companys website at www.
To review the Companys half-year and annual report.
In The financial statements, and the annual report as a whole, particular, the Audit Committee considered whether the are the responsibility of the Board.
The Statement of annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, Directors Responsibilities is contained on page 28.
The allowing shareholders to more easily assess the Board looks to the Audit Committee to advise them in Companys strategy, investment policy, business model relation to the financial statements both as regards their and financial performance.
form and content, issues which might arise and on any specific areas requiring judgement.
To review the risk management and internal control processes of the Company and its key service providers.
Although the Committee did not identify any significant Further details of the Audit Committees review are issues as part of its review of the annual financial included in the Internal Controls and Risk Management statements, it paid particular attention to the following: section on page 38.
Overall accuracy of the Annual Report 3.
To recommend the appointment of external Auditors, The Audit Committee dealt with this matter by considering agreeing the scope of its work and its remuneration, the draft Annual Report, a letter from Frostrow in support of reviewing its independence and the effectiveness of the the letter of representation made by the Board to the audit process.
Auditors and the Auditors Report to the Audit Committee.
During the year the nature and scope of the audit Investments and derivatives together with  LLPs PwCs The Audit Committee dealt with this matter by: audit plan were considered by the Audit Committee ensuring that all investment holdings and cash deposit without PwC being present.
The Chairman of the Audit balances had been agreed to an independent Committee met with PwC and Frostrow to discuss in confirmation from the custodian or relevant counterparty: detail the outcome of the audit and the draft Annual reconfirming its understanding of the processes in place Report.
The Audit Committee then met PwC, without to record investment transactions and income, and to Frostrow or OrbiMed, to review and discuss the outcome value the portfolio: of the audit and the draft Annual Report.
reviewing and amending, where necessary, the 4.
To consider any non-audit work to be carried out by the Companys register of key risks in light of changes to the Auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the need for portfolio and the investment environment: non-audit services to be provided by the Auditors and gaining an overall understanding of the performance of authorises such on a case by case basis, having the portfolio both in capital and revenue terms through consideration to the cost effectiveness of the services and comparison to the benchmark: and the independence and objectivity of the Auditors.
Conducting a review of how the Companys derivative Non-audit fees of 10,500 were payable to the Auditors, positions were monitored.
PwC, during the year for agreed upon procedures in relation to the Companys performance fee review and Performance fees other audit related assurance services.
The Audit Committee approached and dealt with this matter by noting that the Auditors, as a separate engagement, had Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 37 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 been requested to report to the Board on the accuracy of the of their occurrence and their potential impact, how these performance fee calculation, and inputs to that calculation, risks are monitored and mitigating controls in place.
The prior to the payment of all performance fees.
Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility for the review and maintenance of the risk Adoption of new UK GAAP and Corporate matrix and it reviews, in detail, the risk matrix each time it Governance Code meets, bearing in mind any changes to the Company, its As set out on page 52, the Company adopted FRS102 during environment or service providers since the last review.
The Committee dealt with this by: significant changes to the risk matrix are discussed with the whole Board.
arranging for all Directors to be briefed by the Companys auditors on the changes made to UKGAAP and the Policy on non-audit services expected impact on the Company: and The provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditor reviewing a report prepared by Frostrow of the changes to is considered and approved by the Audit Committee on a be made to the Annual Report.
The policy set by the Audit Committee, In addition as set out on page 22, under the which is kept under review, ensures that consideration is 2014UKCorporate Governance Code, the Company is now given to the following factors when considering the provision required to publish a viability statement.
The Committee of non-audit services by the auditor: discussed the length of time that the viability statement the level of non-audit fees paid to the audit firm in should cover for the Company, given its nature, the relation to the statutory audit fee: investment approach taken by its Investment Manager, the whether the audit firm is the most suitable supplier of principal risks facing the Company and the ability of the non-audit services: Company to cover its costs and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Based on these discussions the Committee the impact on the auditors independence and objectivity recommended the statement cover a period of fiveyears.
and what safeguards can be put in place to eliminate or reduce any threat in this regard: and Internal controls and risk management the cost-effectiveness of the services.
As set out on page 19 the Board is responsible for the risk The Board has determined that the auditor will not be assessment and review of internal controls of the Company, considered for the provision of services related to accounting undertaken in the context of the overall investment and preparation of the financial statements: the design, objective.
implementation and operation of information systems: The review covers the key business, operational, compliance internal control functions: tax advice: and legal, broker, and financial risks facing the Company.
In arriving at its investment adviser or investment banking services.
With judgment of what risks the Company faces, the Board has effect from 1 April 2016, the cost of non-audit services considered the Companys operations in the light of the provided by the Companys auditor is subject to a cap of 70% following factors: of the average statutory audit fees over the previous three years.
the nature of the Company, with all management functions outsourced to third party service providers: Auditor the nature and extent of risks which it regards as Following a tender process undertaken by the Audit acceptable for the Company to bear within its overall Committee, PwC were appointed as auditor of the Company investment objective: commencing with the 2014 15 financial year date of the threat of such risks becoming a reality: and appointment 14 July 2014.
In accordance with EU regulation The Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact on auditor rotation and FRC guidance on audit tendering the of risk on its performance.
Company will be required to put its audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
Against this background, a risk matrix has been developed which covers all key risks the Company faces, the likelihood Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 38 2 Governance Audit Committee Report continued PwC has carried out the audit for the year ended 31 March 2016 and were considered to be independent by the Board.
PwC have indicated their willingness to continue to act as Auditor to the Company for the forthcoming year and a resolution for their re-appointment will be processed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee confirmation The Audit Committee confirms that it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control and risk management during the year, as set out above and that: a An ongoing procedure for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company was in place for the year under review and up to 14 June 2016.
This procedure is regularly reviewed by the Board: and b It is responsible on behalf of the Board for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness and that it is designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
This can only provide reasonable not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Jo Dixon Chairman of the Audit Committee 14 June 2016 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 39 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016
