Report by Roberto Quarta Chairman of the Company and chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Dear share owner hat 2016 was WPPs sixth consecutive year Over the last year we have been implementing the of record-breaking performance is testament recommendations of that review, with the aim of ensuring T to the fundamental strength of your Company, the more efficient and effective operation of the Board T the robustness of its strategy and the calibre and its functions, focusing on succession planning, Board of its people.
composition and the use of Board time.
The achievement is particularly noteworthy in light WPP is a large, multidisciplinary and geographically of the challenging trading environment in which WPPs dispersed organisation, doing business in complex and various businesses and their clients operate with global fast-changing markets.
To complement the excellent economic growth continuing to underwhelm.
reporting and presentations the Board already receives This environment is the backdrop to the more cautious from the management team, we have made changes to outlook for 2017 that the Group presented in its the Board agenda to ensure there is always sufficient time Preliminary Results for 2016.
WPPs stellar performance for discussion and debate of the most pressing topics.
over many years means expectations are, rightly, set at We have sharpened the Boards focus on key risks, the highest level.
The true test of a business, however, not least data security and regulation, as the danger is its ability to deliver through economic cycles, adapt of breaches, cyber attacks, cyber fraud and potential to changes in the market and navigate bumps in the road infringements of data protection laws become ever an ability your Company and its management team have more present for all businesses.
demonstrated in spades for more than three decades.
The task of evaluating Board effectiveness is a Even the most smooth-running of engines needs continuous one and this year our senior independent fine-tuning, which is why we conducted an externally director, Nicole Seligman, has led the Board evaluation, facilitated Board review during 2015-16 to evaluate Board building on the recommendations of the external review processes and effectiveness.
A respected external expert to ensure the positive momentum is maintained.
a leader in this field attended Board and committee meetings and interviewed each director and the Company Secretary individually.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 121 How we behave and how were rewarded In 2016, we welcomed Tarek Farahat to the Board as policy, while attempting to provide an attractive a non-executive director, following the tragic loss of our proposition for current and future executives.
In Tarek, we found someone The quality of our management team is underlined who shared Rogers passion for, and experience in, the by WPPs financial performance and also by the external Latin American markets, which are of course strategically recognition it receives.
important to WPP and its clients.
At the head of our operating companies, many of Tareks track record of running consumer-facing them multinational corporations in their own right, the businesses in Latin America, the Middle East and Europe, Group has an enviable collection of highly accomplished and his board-level experience with global public and capable business leaders a number of whom have companies, have already been of immense value to your seamlessly succeeded to their global CEO roles during Board and the Company as a whole.
As ever they give their own reports on the progress At the AGM this year we say goodbye to two members of their businesses within these pages.
I encourage you to of the Board: Timothy Shriver and Charlene Begley.
Tim is retiring from the Board having completed his As I said in last years report, succession planning term as a non-executive director, during which time he for all major companies, not just WPP must consider two served as a valued member of the Compensation Committee scenarios: a planned process of transition to new leadership and Nomination and Governance Committee.
We have over time: and an unforeseen, more sudden change due to all benefited from his breadth of vision, deep insight and circumstances beyond our control.
thoughtful engagement with the Board, and he leaves with Whether it happens in the near or distant future, when our enduring gratitude for the contribution he has made Sir Martin leaves his role as chief executive we will have to the fortunes of WPP over the last nine years.
an exceptional team of potential candidates on the bench.
Charlene has also had a hugely positive impact This team comprises not only those who report directly to during her three years with WPP and the support she has Sir Martin but also many who currently occupy the senior provided as a valued member of the Audit Committee and tier below.
Nomination and Governance Committee and on the IT Our succession planning process, which has always Transformation project.
She has the Boards very best been rigorous, has become even more focused and detailed wishes as she leaves due to timing conflicts on her other over the last year.
As part of our continuous assessment US board commitments.
of those individuals who might one day become chief Charlenes departure means the proportion of women executive of the Group, we have invited a number of on the Board will fall temporarily after the AGM from the leaders within WPP companies to present to the Board current 29%.
We intend to restore and if possible improve and attend Board meetings.
This exercise gives me greater upon that statistic with coming appointments.
confidence than ever in the strength of our people and While we still have work to do to achieve greater gender their potential to succeed at the very top.
balance on the Board, in terms of the spread of nationalities This internal pool is, of course, maintained alongside WPP already has a diverse line-up of directors with eight a constantly refined list of external candidates.
For a global company The outstanding nature of the executives the Board like WPP, with interests in mature and fast-growing meets regularly leads me to believe that they are, in turn, markets around the world, the international perspective developing leaders of similar character and ability within this affords is vital.
This pipeline of talent is essential for During 2016, the Compensation Committee, led by the ongoing prosperity of your Company an organisation Sir John Hood, has carefully considered the renewal of the built on human ingenuity and expertise.
Directors Compensation Policy for submission to share WPPs record-breaking run is the product of hard owners for approval at the AGM.
This has been a complex work by 205,000 dedicated people worldwide including task that has taken into account the corporate governance associates and investments.
On behalf of the Board and policies and guidance provided by our share owners and the the Groups share owners I offer them our heartfelt thanks.
need to appropriately reward executives.
The policy that we are submitting for your approval does respond to concerns expressed about executive compensation levels in the UK, Roberto Quarta in that it presents a significant diminution of the previous 19 April 2017 122 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016
