How were doing Burson-Marsteller See report on page 64.
Hill Knowlton Strategies Report by Jack Martin Chief executive officer and chairman '.
: e are living in uncertain times.
The solutions Ive been greatly encouraged by the spread of this kind ' ':.. to our biggest problems can seem deceptively of thinking throughout Hill Knowlton Strategies over the small at first glance, as can the origins of past year, sparked especially by SJR in New York and our.
In this environment, a Global Center of Creative Strategy in London.
Because of handful of tiny start-ups can still topple multi-billion-dollar this new approach, 2016 was a year of growth, one of the industries, or create them out of nothing.
A handful of best weve seen for a number of years.
hackers can find equal footing with any superpower.
And Under the leadership of Alexander Jutkowitz, SJR has a single social media account, wielded skillfully, can be been the catalyst for explosive growth, both creative and the tipping point in a US Presidential election.
Its unique approach to problem solving, in which they convene top talent and dont confine it with job titles or assumptions, has allowed SJR to pivot quickly around By tapping into the limitless our clients needs.
And by tapping into the limitless power of storytelling content, SJR is continuing to open up new power of storytelling content, ways for H K to transform reputations, conversations, '' SJR is continuing to open up and entire industries.
Under the leadership of Richard Millar, our Global new ways for H K to transform Center of Creative Strategy has brought a new sense of purpose both to H K and to our clients communications reputations, conversations, strategies.
Through its dedication to creativity and, , and entire industries curiosity, it is at the forefront of learning how to drive and not just adapt to the way that influence works.
The future belongs to those thinkers who can perceive Across H K, we are test-driving the model of the unique advantages and opportunities inherent in this innovation, transformation and hungry, restless environment.
To navigate uncertainty, it isnt enough to energy that our clients so urgently need from us solve the problems our clients put before us.
We have to in this uncertain world.
think of solutions that are bigger than the problems themselves, and blaze new paths when all existing paths lead nowhere.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 77 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Cohn & Wolfe Report by Donna Imperato 2016 was also an especially rewarding year for industry Chief executive officer recognition.
We added 17 Cannes Lions, three Clios and 19 Eurobest Awards, not to mention the WPPED Cream PR ou are likely reading this report among other PR Crme fide la Crme Award.
Recognition continues to build... -... ::... agency reports but Cohn & Wolfe is no longer across all regions.
North America was named The Holmes ' : : a traditional public relations agency.
Fueled by Report Large Agency of the Year.
In Europe, we were Y our vision to own the future of communications, recognized as Regional Network of the Year by The Cohn & Wolfe has thoroughly evolved into an idea-driven, International Communications Consultancy Organization, integrated communications agency that is channel-neutral as well as Best European Network to Work For by The and media agnostic.
Our transformation is paying off.
Holmes Report and Best Place to Work by PRWeek UK.
2016 saw the strongest year of growth in the agencys In Asia, we were honored with two Agency of the Year history and our third sequential year of double-digit Awards from Marketing magazine Silver for Malaysia and growth.
Cohn & Wolfe is now 50% larger globally than Bronze for Singapore.
Our Asia network is still relatively we were just three years ago.
young, so it was quite an achievement to be a Holmes Report finalist for both Asia-Pacific Technology PR and Southeast Asia PR Consultancy of the Year.
C ohn & Wolfe has evolved into Never content to rest on our laurels, we are now hyper-focused on further growth in 2017.
By combining an idea-driven, integrated our creative excellence with foresight about consumer '' communications agency that is demand for fully immersive brand experiences, we are poised to build an industry-leading creative technology channel-neutral and media capability.
It is what todays C-suite needs to succeed in, , agnostic our rapidly changing, technology-driven communications industry.
And Cohn & Wolfe is ready to deliver!
The power of our integrated communications offering is attracting marquee clients across all regions, including China telecom leader ZTE, Newell Brands 25 brands across 13 markets, DineEquity and Applebees and Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment.
Backed by our expanding geography, more wins than ever were global or shared across regions.
We also deepened our relationships with long-term clients across every sector with the addition of digital and content assignments.
78 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Finsbury HERING SCHUPPENER Report by Ralf Hering Report by Roland Rudd Principal partner and Chairman chief executive officer.. insbury continues to expand its influence as a ith double-digit growth in revenue and.
-p.. : globally-integrated strategic communications profits, 2016 was another record year consultancy.
It specialises in managing complex for our firm... W F assignments in corporate reputation, financial W Our capital markets business almost and transaction communications, public affairs and crisis doubled, advising clients in the largest transactions management.
Finsbury has offices in the UK, the US, and initial public offerings in Germany and Europe.
mainland Europe, the Middle East and this year boosted Thanks to our newly-created global strategic partnership its presence in Asia by opening an office in Japan.
with Finsbury, our world-class capability to advise on 2016 marked the beginning of a strategic partnership cross-border mandates has become another strong between Finsbury and HERING SCHUPPENER, the leading competitive advantage.
strategic communications consultancy in Continental Europe.
Together we have formed a globally-leading strategic The now seamless global offer has resulted in more than 20 communications advisory supporting our clients in joint projects, notably on large M&A transactions including mission-critical situations covering all important markets Bayer Monsanto and Linde Praxair, and major global in Europe, the UK, the US and Asia.
reputation management mandates for ABB and KION, as well We strengthened our dominant market leader position in as the global crisis management assignment from Volkswagen.
1 in the Mergermarket rankings in value and volume, now for 13 consecutive years.
We also boosted our business in CEO transitions, corporate crises 2 016 marked the beginning and public affairs with a strong digital transformation offering as a cross-function for all our mandates.
"of a strategic partnership '' between Finsbury and O ur world-class capability HERING SCHUPPENER ff "" to advise on cross-border In 2016, revenues increased as Finsbury added mandates has become significant new assignments for Viacom, Nandos, iHeart, another strong competitive Prada, Barings and KSA Ministry of Finance among others, to complement its existing work for major clients including advantage Toyota, Sky, UnitedHealth Group, CPPIB, Aviva and Ahold."
"Finsbury also managed a number of high-profile deals including Softbanks acquisition of ARM, Sainsburys In May, The Holmes Report named us again EMEA "" acquisition of Home Retail Group and the initial public Consultancy of the Year 2016. offering for Convatec."
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 79 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Buchanan Report by Richard Oldworth Executive chairman.. '::.
communications boutique produced increased revenues and profits in 2016.
B saw some interesting corporate restructuring I assignments as well as higher underlying retained fee income.
While the Brexit vote adversely affected our UK-centric IPO pipeline in the second half, a resurgent natural resources sector helped push our year-end retainer run rate almost 20% higher than a year earlier.
We expect good growth in 2017 and are targeting the addition of a select number of senior recruits to further enhance our offer.
