How we behave and how were rewarded At a glance How we performed in 2016 Group financial performance measures: Headline PBT growth Headline net sales Growth in net sales margin improvement 6.5 0.4 3.2 6.0% 0.3% 0.3% 3.1% 6.0 Target 0.3 Target 3.1 Target o - - - a o o 0.26% 5.5 Actual Actual Actual o o o 3.0% 0.2 constant 3.0 5.0% 5.0 currency Like-for-like 0.1 2.9 4.5 D-- 4.0 0.0 2.8 1 Long-term total shareholder return performance WPP Total Shareholder Return TSR Change in value of a 100 investment in WPP over time relative to indices 1200 1,006% 1000 1200 800 1,106 1000 600 800 400 249% 210% 600 570 200 429 19% 422 400 0 341 Twenty Ten Five One 200 --- years years years year 0 FTSE 100 241% 65% 51% 17% Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 S&P 500 470% 199% 146% 34% CAC 40 322% 58% 66% 23% WPP FTSE100 MSCI o o o S&P 500 CAC40 World Index o o MSCI World 329% 140% 105% 29% Source: DataStream.
TSR calculated up until 31 December 2016.
Change in value of a 100 investment in WPP over time relative to a composite index of peers 1,200 1,106 1,000 800 742 600 400 200 0 Jan 97 Jan 99 Jan 01 Jan 03 Jan 05 Jan 07 Jan 09 Jan 11 Jan 13 Jan 15 Jan 17 WPP Peer composite o o Source: DataStream.
Peer Composite comprises Havas, IPG, Omnicom and Publicis, and from its date of listing in 2001: Dentsu.
All data has been converted on a daily basis into GBP.
It is assumed that an investment is made on a market-cap weighted basis across all companies, redistributed at the end of each day.
1 T SR calculated using an averaging period of one month one-year TSR or six months longer-term TSR in common currency.
130 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded At a glance How much the Executive Directors earned in 2016 000 Sir Martin Sorrell Paul Richardson 8% 12% Fixed compensation 3,596 Fixed compensation 1,100 o o 6% Short-term incentives 2,992 Short-term incentives 1,517 o o 16% Long-term incentives 41,560 Long-term incentives 6,698 o o 48,148 9,315 72% 86% How we will implement our proposed compensation policy in 2017 1 Policy Implementation 2 2017 Sir Martin Sorrell Paul Richardson Base salary 24-month review period No change 1,150,000 $1,080,470 Pension Pension is provided by way Reduction 30% 30% of contribution to a defined No change contribution arrangement, or a cash allowance, determined as a percentage of base salary Benefits A fixed benefits allowance Reduction 200,000 $85,000 will be provided as an alternative to the provision of itemised benefits, to be used at the executives discretion Short-term incentives 7 0% financial and 30% Reduction Opportunity: 0% 400% Opportunity: 0% 250% individual strategic Target: 200% Target: 165% objectives One-year performance 6 0% cash, 40% deferred WPP shares two years Long-term incentives TSR, EPS and ROE Reduction Opportunity: 0% 600% Opportunity: 0% 300% Five-year performance 100% WPP shares 1 Opportunity and target expressed as a percentage of base salary.
2 Paul Richardsons base salary figure is denominated in US dollars other than his fee for directorship of WPP plc which amounts to 100,000.
Any sterling amounts have been converted into US dollar at an exchange rate of $1.3547 to 1.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 131 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy The Compensation Committee presents the proposed Directors Compensation Policy for 2017-2019.
It is the intention of the committee that this policy will be maintained for three years from approval, assuming no changes are required.
The committee believes that this policy continues to align with the Companys mission statement and business objectives as well as being competitive for current and successor Executive Directors.
Proposed policy changes The 2017 policy that is being presented to share owners for approval has been drafted to take into account the views of our share owners that have been received over the last policy period.
The key changes from the 2014 policy, which are described in the chairmans letter, can be summarised as follows: The maximum annual bonus opportunity of the Group chief executive is reduced to 400% and for the Group chief financial officer to 250%.
A minimum of 40% of the achieved bonus will be delivered in deferred shares ESA.
The maximum annual Executive Performance Share Plan EPSP opportunity of the Group chief executive is being reduced to 600% of base salary and for the Group chief financial officer to 300% of base salary.
The EPSP plan will continue to operate over a five-year performance period and the performance measures of TSR, EPS and ROE remain unchanged.
The threshold vesting level of the EPSP award is being reduced to 15%.
The maximum level of annual pension contribution for the Group chief executive is being reduced to 30% of base salary.
The Executive Directors will be provided with a non-itemised fixed benefits allowance to enable them to procure benefits to enable them to undertake their role and ensure their security and wellbeing.
The benefits allowance for the Group chief executive will be 200,000 and for the Group chief financial officer $85,000 per annum.
The maximum incentive award, the combination of shortand long-term incentives, for a new appointee to the Board, is being reduced to 8 times base salary.
The maximum pension contribution for a new appointee to the Board is being reduced to 25% of base salary.
This amount may be delivered by either a contribution towards a defined contribution retirement plan or by way of a cash retirement allowance.
The above proposed changes to policy will be effective 1 January 2017, except for the pension contribution which will be effective 1 July 2017.
The impact of these changes is demonstrated in the pay scenario charts on page 139.
132 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy WPPs compensation philosophy Our mission statement and our six business objectives shape our compensation philosophy.
Broadly, our Directors Compensation Policy is determined by three long-standing guiding principles: performance-driven reward: competitiveness: and alignment with share owner interests.
Specifically, our six business objectives as set out on page 37 are reflected in the design of our compensation plans as set out below: WPPs six business objectives Alignment with compensation structure Continue to improve operating margins on net sales Short-term incentive measure for the Group chief executive and Group chief financial officer 1 Increase flexibility in the cost structure Short-term incentive measure for the Group chief financial officer 2 Use free cash flow to enhance share owner value TSR, EPS growth and average ROE are long-term incentive and improve return on capital employed measures for the Executive Directors 3 Continue to develop the value added by the parent Short-term incentive measures parent company-led company efficiency projects for the Group chief executive and 4 Group chief financial officer Emphasise revenue and net sales growth more Short-term incentive measures for the Group chief executive as margins improve and Group chief financial officer 5 Improve still further the creative capabilities Short-term incentive measure for the Group chief executive and reputation of all our businesses 6 Our Directors Compensation Policy is designed to attract and retain best-in-class talent.
The policy looks to incentivise directors to develop the skills of the Groups employees in order to consistently exceed our clients expectations, driving and rewarding sustainable and exceptional performance, thereby producing long-term value for share owners.
In applying this policy, the committee takes into account the pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, which in turn are informed by general market conditions and internal factors such as the performance of the Group or relevant business unit.
Considerations taken into account when setting our Directors Compensation Policy Employment conditions at WPP When reviewing changes to the compensation levels for the directors, the committee considers any changes in light of increases awarded across the Group over a relevant period of time, in conjunction with the other factors set out in the policy table.
Due to the global nature of the business and the distribution of our 132,657 employees over 112 countries, it was not practical to consult them when drawing up our new policy.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 133 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy Share owner views During 2016, the main focus from WPP share owners, as well as the media more generally, was on executive compensation.
WPP has worked diligently to listen to all views and create a policy that is both acceptable for share owners as well as attractive and retentive for Executive Directors.
WPP continues to engage openly with share owners and institutional investors to discuss matters relating to compensation.
The feedback received during these conversations is valuable and is among the factors that inform the decisions made by the committee.
Glossary The following are acronyms used throughout the policy: Acronym Definition DEPs Dividend Equivalent Payments DSUs Deferred Stock Units EPSP Executive Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan introduced in 2013 ESA Executive Share Award the part of the STIP that is deferred into shares Good Leaver Broadly, when an individual is dismissed other than for cause the particular meaning applicable to each share plan can be found in the relevant rules RSP Restricted Stock Plan STIP Short-term Incentive Plan the annual incentive plan comprising a cash bonus and an ESA Directors Compensation Policy table Executive Directors The following table sets out details of the proposed compensation elements for WPPs Executive Directors.
Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Fixed elements of compensation Base salary Base salary levels are reviewed every two Company and personal Under normal To maintain package years or following a significant change in performance will be taken circumstances base salary competitiveness the scope of a role.
The base salary number into account during the will increase by no more and reflect skills includes a director fee of 100,000. review process.
than the local rate of and experience.
inflation over the period Levels are determined by taking a number since last review.
of relevant factors into account including individual and business performance, In the event of a promotion level of experience, scope of responsibility, or a significant change compensation practices across the in the scope of the role, Group and the competitiveness of or changes in sector total compensation against both our competitive pay or competitors and companies of a similar the need to counter a size and complexity.
competitive external offer, the committee may exceed this limit.
134 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Short-term incentives details of how performance measures and targets are set are included in the notes to this table on pages 137 and 138 Cash bonus, Executive Overview 70% subject to financial Group chief executive: Share Awards ESA The committee may invite executives to performance, either at a Group 400% of base salary.
To drive the achievement participate in the STIP under which a bonus and or divisional level depending Other Executive Directors: of business priorities for can be made subject to performance on the role.
the financial year and measured over the financial year.
Bonus 30% subject to individual to motivate, retain and opportunity is determined as a percentage The value of any accrued objectives linked to the strategy of reward executives over of salary.
dividends will vary WPP or the relevant business area.
the short and medium depending on the size Performance measures and targets term, while maximising The committee will use its of the ESA awarded, are reviewed and set annually to alignment with share judgement in assessing dividends declared ensure continuing strategic alignment.
performance relative to targets and share price over Achievement levels are determined and expectations communicated the deferral period.
following year-end by the committee, at the start of the year and will based on performance against targets.
consider unforeseen factors that Executive Directors bonuses are delivered may have impacted performance in the form of a cash award and a deferred during the period.
share award ESA, the latter constituting Vesting schedule at least 40% of the total bonus achieved.
The following table sets out the The ESA will vest after a minimum of two level of bonus payable for years subject to continued employment, threshold and target performance together with additional shares in respect as a percentage of maximum.
Vesting operates on a straight-line Judgement basis between these points.
The committee will use its judgement to set the performance measures and Target as percentage targets annually.
Threshold of maximum Malus provisions ESA Sir Martin The committee has the ability to reduce any Sorrell 0% 50% unvested ESA in certain situations, including Other when fraud or a material misstatement Executive has affected the level of any performanceDirectors 0% 66% related compensation.
Clawback provisions The committee has the ability to clawback cash bonus, earned in respect of the performance year 2016 or after, in the three years post payment in certain situations, including when fraud, breach of fiduciary duty or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performance-related compensation.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 135 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Long-term incentives details of how performance measures and targets are set are included in the notes to this table on pages 137 and 138 Executive Performance Overview One-third relative TSR.
Conditional awards: Share Plan EPSP Executives may receive an annual conditional One-third headline EPS growth.
Plan maximum: To incentivise long-term award expressed as a percentage of base One-third average ROE.
performance and to focus salary.
Executives may also receive an award All measures are assessed Group chief executive: on long-term retention and in respect of the number of reinvested independently of each other.
strategic priorities, while dividends proportionate to the amount of the maximising alignment award vesting, the dividends declared during TSR is measured on a marketOther Executive Directors: with share owner interests.
the performance period and the share price at capitalisation weighted basis 3 times base salary.
the time the dividend is declared.
Awards will against a peer group of business vest subject to performance, measured over The value of accrued competitors that are selected a period of five consecutive financial years.
dividends will vary according to size and relevance.
depending on the level This peer group is reviewed In respect of merger and acquisition activity of vesting, dividends annually at the start of each within the peer group, the committee has an declared and share cycle to ensure it remains robust, established and operated policy that TSR price over the appropriate and relevant in light outcomes should not be impacted by the performance period.
Half of the speculation or actuality of takeovers of peer TSR element is measured on a group companies including WPP.
This policy local currency basis, half on a includes a minimum listing requirement, an common currency basis.
approach for the reinvestment of proceeds from shares of companies that delist during the EPS is defined as WPPs headline performance period and parameters for diluted earnings per share.
The companies subject to bid speculation.
Details of EPS performance is calculated how this policy is implemented will be disclosed by taking the aggregate EPS each year in the relevant Annual Report.
over the performance period and calculating the compound annual In accordance with the EPSP rules that were growth from the financial year approved by share owners at the 2013 AGM, preceding the start of the period.
if the committee considers that there has been an exceptional event or that there have ROE is calculated as headline been exceptional circumstances during a diluted EPS divided by the performance period that have made it average balance sheet per materially easier or harder for the Company share value of share owners to achieve a performance measure, the equity during the year.
committee may adjust the extent to which an award vests to mitigate the effect of the Vesting schedule exceptional event or circumstances.
Awards will vest from 15% for threshold performance and 100% Judgement for maximum performance.
The committee will use its judgement to set the performance measures and targets annually.
Malus provisions The committee has the ability to reduce any unvested EPSP award in certain situations, including when fraud or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performance-related compensation.
Clawback provisions The committee has the ability to clawback the amount net of tax received by an executive from the proceeds of the vesting of an award granted in 2016 or later years, in the three years post payment, in certain situations, including when fraud, breach of fiduciary duty or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performance-related compensation.
136 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Other items of compensation Dividend Equivalent The Company has previously received share No longer subject to a The value of any accrued Payments DEPs owner approval to allow Sir Martin Sorrell performance requirement dividends will vary on the DSUs to defer receipt of the DSUs.
The Company as this was assessed at the depending on the To ensure that Sir Martin makes a cash payment to Sir Martin Sorrell point of vesting in 1999. dividends declared during Sorrell receives an amount of an amount equal to the dividends that the deferral period.
equal to the dividends would have been due on the shares that would be payable comprising the DSUs.
if he had taken receipt of This benefit will cease in November 2017. and retained the shares underlying the DSUs.
Benefits The fixed allowance will be reviewed Not applicable.
Fixed benefit allowances Provide a fixed and periodically by the committee and any are as follows: non-itemised allowance, changes will be effective for the next fiscal Group chief executive: to enable the executive to year.
The allowance is set with regard to 200,000 procure benefits to enable the individual concerned and the role Group chief financial them to undertake their they undertake.
role and ensure their Should the executive be required to wellbeing and security.
relocate to a different country, a relocation benefit may be provided in addition to the allowance depending on the prevailing circumstances.
Pension Pension is provided by way of contribution Not applicable.
Group chief executive: To enable provision for to a defined contribution retirement 30% of base salary.
arrangement, or a cash allowance, Group chief financial determined as a percentage of base salary.
New Executive Director appointee to the Board: 25% of base salary.
Notes to the policy table Selection of performance measures STIP Plan rules Performance measures are selected by the committee on the basis of their alignment to Group strategy and are the key Copies of the various plan rules are available for inspection measures to oversee the operation of the business.
Measures at the Companys registered office and head office.
are reviewed annually by the committee taking into account The Directors Compensation Policy table for Executive business performance and priorities.
Directors provides a summary of the key provisions relating to their ongoing operation.
EPSP The committee has the authority to ensure that any EPS growth is a measure that is important for both awards being granted, vested or lapsed are treated in management and our share owners, capturing growth in accordance with the plan rules which are more extensive revenue and earnings.
ROE is similarly important, and than the summary set out in the table.
provides a positive counterbalance and risk management mechanism through the focus on both growth and capital efficiencies.
With the inclusion of relative TSR, the plan also takes account of share owner views of how WPP has performed relative to the companies in the peer group.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 137 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy Calibration of performance targets Senior executives participate in the same long-term incentive plan as the Executive Directors, which is designed STIP to incentivise growth, capital efficiency and share price The performance targets for the STIP are set to incentivise appreciation: and year-on-year growth and to reward strong, sustainable Share ownership is encouraged for the WPP Leaders performance.
Strategic targets are based upon the annual approximately the top 300 executives, all of whom have business priorities.
The committee is of the view that the stretching ownership goals.
targets for the STIP are commercially sensitive and it Across the workforce more broadly, many employees would be detrimental to the Company to disclose them participate in bonus and commission plans based on the in advance of or during the relevant performance performance of their employing company.
The committee will disclose those targets at competitive, employees are provided with companythe end of the relevant performance period in that sponsored pension plans and life assurance years Annual Report, if those targets are no longer plans and a range of other benefits.
In addition to these commercially sensitive.
compensation elements, the Company also uses share-based compensation across the workforce to incentivise, retain EPSP and recruit talent which encourages a strong ownership Operational targets under the EPSP are set taking into culture among employees.
The main share plans are account a combination of factors, but primarily internal described below.
forecasts, analysts expectations albeit, the period over which analysts forecast is generally shorter than the Restricted Stock Plan five-year performance period and historical performance The RSP is used to satisfy awards under the short-term relative to budgets.
incentive plans including ESAs as well as to grant awards Relative TSR targets are set to ensure they are more to management under the WPP Leaders, Partners and stretching than UK norms and require out-performance High Potential program.
In this program, awards are made of our peers at median before any reward is triggered.
to participants that vest three years after grant, provided the participant is still employed within the Group.
Cascade to WPP Group pay policy Executive Directors, and other senior management employees, receive part of their annual bonus entitlement As well as setting the policy for the Executive Directors, as a deferred share award ESA under the RSP.
Executive the committee is also responsible for reviewing the policy Directors are ineligible to participate in any other aspect for the most senior people at WPP outside the Board.
of the management share award program.
Compensation packages for these individuals are normally reviewed every 18-24 months.
As is the case Share Option Plan 2015 for Executive Directors, the WPP Group pay policy ensures The WPP plc Share Option Plan 2015 is an all-employee a clear and direct link between the performance of the plan that makes annual grants of stock options to Group or relevant operating company and compensation.
employees with two years of service who work in Substantial use of performance-driven compensation not wholly-owned subsidiaries.
This plan replaced the legacy only ensures the continued alignment of the interests of Worldwide Ownership Plan.
share owners and senior individuals within the Group, but The WPP plc Share Option Plan 2015 has the capability also enables the Group to attract, retain and motivate the to make grants of executive share options in order to attract talented people upon whom our success depends.
Such awards are made infrequently.
WPP is committed to encouraging strong performance There were no grants of executive share options in 2016, through a reward system that aligns managements interests or 2015.
The Executive Directors do not participate in with those of share owners.
From a compensation perspective, this is encouraged in a number of ways: 138 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy How do these pay policies affect potential compensation packages?
These graphs seek to demonstrate how pay varies with performance.
The graphs are reflective of the pay policy that is being presented for approval at the 2017 AGM.
1 Sir Martin Sorrell including DEPs which will cease in November 2017 Value of package 000s Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum 3,453 Minimum 51% 34% 15% On-plan 6,788 On-plan I I 23% 31% 46% Maximum 14,953 Maximum 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 1 Sir Martin Sorrell excluding DEPs which will cease in November 2017 Value of package 000s Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum 1,695 Minimum D 33% 46% 21% On-plan 5,030 On-plan I I I 13% 35% 52% Maximum 13,195 Maximum I I 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Paul Richardson Value of package 000s Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum 1,100 Minimum D 40% 47% 13% On-plan 2,774 On-plan I I 20% 36% 44% Maximum 5,486 Maximum 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Fixed Short-term incentives Long-term incentives o o o 1 DEPs are dividend equivalent payments applicable to Sir Martin Sorrell only.
Details of the payments are set out on page 140.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 139 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy The graphs are informed by three performance scenarios and these, along with the assumptions used, are summarised below.
Fixed elements Consists of base salary, benefits including DEPs where indicated and pension I Base salary reflects current levels FY2017 I The DEPs are consistent with the single figure table for FY2016.
Benefits reflect the fixed benefits allowances under the proposed policy Pension reflects contributions under the proposed policy 2 000 Base salary Benefits inc. DEPs Pension Total fixed 1 Sir Martin Sorrell 1,150 1,958 30% 3,453 I - I Paul Richardson 798 63 30% 1,100 Short-term On-plan scenario assumes target bonus is paid - incentives Maximum scenario assumes the full bonus is paid % of salary Below threshold On-plan Maximum - Sir Martin Sorrell 0% 200% 400% Paul Richardson 0% 165% 250% Long-term On-plan scenario assumes threshold vesting of an award at the proposed policy level incentives Maximum scenario assumes full vesting of an award at the proposed policy level % of salary Below threshold On-plan Maximum Sir Martin Sorrell 0% 90% 600% Paul Richardson 0% 45% 300% 1 The DEP component of the benefits number, 1,757,739, will cease in November 2017.
2 Any US dollar amounts have been converted into sterling at an exchange rate of $1.3547 to 1.
Other Executive Director policies in 1995 under the Capital Investment Plan.
The UK DSU is an option that can be exercised at any time until November 2017.
The US DSU will vest on the earlier of Legacy share awards and obligations the end of Sir Martins employment with the Company, a change in control of the Company and 30 November 2017.
Under the Directors Compensation Policy, Sir Martin In accordance with share owner approval, Sir Martin Sorrells deferred awards will be paid in accordance Sorrell receives cash dividend equivalent payments with the terms agreed at the time and set out in previous DEPs in respect of these deferred awards as noted Compensation Committee reports.
The key terms of in the policy table.
Sir Martins deferred awards are summarised below.
Share ownership guidelines Deferred awards Sir Martin Sorrell only Executive Directors and other members of the senior The Company has previously received share owner approval management team are subject to share ownership guidelines to allow Sir Martin Sorrell to defer receipt of his UK and which seek to reinforce the WPP principle of alignment US 2004, 2005 and 2007 LEAP awards and the UK part of managements interests with those of share owners.
The UK awards are The following levels of ownership are required to be options that can be exercised at any time until November achieved by the Executive Directors unchanged for 2017 : 2017.
The US awards will vest on the earlier of the end of % of base salary Sir Martins employment with the Company, a change in Group chief executive 600% control of the Company and 30 November 2017.
Additional Group chief financial officer 300% shares will continue to accrue in respect of dividends paid Minimum for any other up to the point of exercise UK or vesting US.
new executive appointed The Company has also previously received share owner to the Board 200% approval to allow Sir Martin Sorrell to defer receipt of the UK and the US Deferred Stock Units DSUs.
These are the Executive Directors will be permitted a period of seven awards that originally vested in 1999, having been granted years from the date of their appointment to achieve the guideline level.
140 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy In the event that an Executive Director fails to achieve manner at the discretion of the committee.
The intention of the required levels of share ownership, the committee will the committee is that any award will take the form of WPP decide what remedial action or penalty is appropriate.
This shares and will be subject to performance as far as possible.
may involve a reduction in future share awards or requiring An announcement of the directors appointment, the director to purchase shares in the market to meet the detailing the incumbents compensation will be made on a ownership guidelines.
timely basis through a regulatory information service and posted on the Companys website.
Appointments to the Board Service contracts This section sets out details with respect to the appointment The following terms will apply for any new executive role of a new Executive Director to the Board of WPP, whether appointed to the Board in the future.
it is an external or internal appointment.
Executives will normally be appointed on a notice period of up to 12 months, although the committee retains Fixed compensation the discretion to appoint an external candidate on a notice Base salary will be set taking into account a range of period of up to 24 months reducing on a rolling basis to factors, including the profile and prior experience of the 12 months such that after 12 months service the notice candidate, internal relativities, cost and external market period would have reverted to the standard 12 months.
If base salary is set at a lower initial level, contingent At the committees discretion, any payment in lieu of on individual performance, the committee retains the notice will be restricted to base salary, benefits and pension.
discretion to realign the base salary over a phased period On termination, entitlements will lapse when classified of one to three years following appointment, which may as a bad leaver defined within the incentive plans.
result in an exceptional rate of annualised increase in excess Otherwise base salary, benefits and pension allowance of that set out in the policy table.
are payable as per the notice period and the committee will Other elements of fixed pay will be set in accordance have the power to make phased payments that would be with the policy table.
A new appointment may require the reduced or stopped if alternative employment is taken up.
committee to rely on the authorised discretion as set out on page 137 to make payments related to relocation, for Terms specific to internal appointments example, in order to facilitate the appointment.
The committee can honour any pre-existing commitments if an internal candidate is appointed to the Board.
Ongoing variable compensation The committee will seek to pay only that level of reward Service contracts necessary to recruit the exceptional talent needed to lead such a complex global group.
The actual level of incentive The Companys policy on Executive Directors service offered will be dependent on the role and existing package contracts is that they should be on a rolling basis without of the candidate.
The aggregate maximum face value for a specific end date.
annual shortand long-term variable compensation will The effective dates and notice periods under the current be 8 times base salary, which is materially lower than the Executive Directors service contracts are summarised below: current Group chief executive maximum level.
Effective from Notice period The committee retains the discretion to make awards Sir Martin on recruitment, within the policy limits, to provide an Sorrell 19 November 2008 At will immediate alignment of interest with the interests of Paul share owners.
Richardson 19 November 2008 12 months Buy-out awards Sir Martin Sorrells service contract may be terminated The committee may consider buying-out compensation by either the Company or Sir Martin without any notice, entitlements that the individual has had to forfeit by and without any payment in lieu of notice.
The structure and value of the The Executive Directors service contracts are awards will be informed by the structure and value of those available for inspection at the Companys registered entitlements being forfeited, and the performance targets, office and head office.
time horizon and vehicle will be set in an appropriate WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 141 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors Compensation Policy Loss of office provisions service contract contains an indemnity, subject to certain conditions relating to previously deferred awards, from Fixed compensation elements WPP in respect of any US tax which is charged under As noted above, the service contract of Paul Richardson section 280G as a result of a termination linked to a change provides for notice to be given on termination.
Further details are set out below.
The fixed compensation elements of the contract will continue to be paid in respect of any notice period.
There Shortand long-term compensation elements are no provisions relating to payment in lieu of notice.
If an If the Executive Director is dismissed for cause, there is not Executive Director is placed on garden leave, the committee an entitlement to a STIP award, and any unvested shareretains the discretion to settle benefits in the form of cash.
Otherwise, the table below The Executive Directors are entitled to compensation for summarises the relevant provisions from the directors any accrued and unused holiday although, to the extent service contracts cash bonus and the plan rules RSP and it is possible and in share owner interests, the committee EPSP, which apply in other leaver scenarios.
As noted on will encourage Executive Directors to use their leave page 137, the committee has the authority to ensure that entitlements, prior to the end of their notice period.
any awards that vest or lapse are treated in accordance with Except in respect of any remaining notice period, no the plan rules, which are more extensive than the summary aspect of any Executive Directors fixed compensation is set out in the table below.
payable on termination of employment.
Sir Martin Sorrells Cash bonus The Executive Directors are entitled to receive their bonus for any particular year provided they are employed on the last date of the performance period.
ESA Provided the Executive Director is a Good Leaver, unvested awards will be reduced on a time pro-rata basis and paid on the vesting date.
EPSP The award will lapse if the executive leaves during the first year of a performance period.
P rovided the Executive Director is a Good Leaver, awards will vest subject to performance at the end of the performance period and time pro-rating.
Awards will be paid on the normal date.
I n exceptional circumstances, the compensation committee may determine that an award will vest on a different basis.
G enerally, in the event of death, the performance conditions are to be assessed as at the date of death.
However, the committee retains the discretion to deal with an award due to a deceased executive on any other basis that it considers appropriate.
A wards will vest immediately on a change-of-control subject to performance and time pro-rating unless it is agreed by the committee and the relevant Executive Director that the outstanding awards are exchanged for equivalent new awards.
Other pre-existing terms that apply to Sir Martin Sorrell Sir Martin Sorrells deferred LEAP awards and his DSUs as set out on page 140 will be paid out unconditionally on termination of employment.
The performance requirements in respect of these awards have already been met, the awards have vested and are therefore no longer subject to any leaver provisions.
In the event any payments due to Sir Martin would be treated as deferred compensation in accordance with US legislation and subject to section 409A requirements, those payments will be delayed.
If those payments are delayed, an amount in respect of interest as a result of the delay will be due from the Company to Sir Martin.
In the event of a change of control of WPP, the Company has agreed to indemnify Sir Martin, with the prior approval of share owners, with respect to any related personal US tax liability under the provisions of section 280G.
This indemnity is subject to certain limitations that exempt the Company from liability for any tax related to the share-owner approved deferrals of certain awards.
Based on the most recent review by the committee of the potential impact of this clause, it is unlikely that any 280G payment would be due from the Company based on an analysis, using standard assumptions.
This was reviewed by independent counsel.
