Data has been prepared in accordance with the World Resource Institute WRI and World Business Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition the GHG Protocol.
All greenhouse gases emissions figures are in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents CO e. They include three of the six greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol carbon dioxide CO, methane CH and nitrous oxide N O. Perflurocarbons PFCs, 2 4 2 hydroflurocarbons HFCs and sulphur hexafluoride SF emissions have been omitted from our reporting as they are not a material source of greenhouse gases 6 for WPP.
Emissions data is included for all operations for which WPP and its subsidiaries have operational control.
When calculating our carbon footprint, we rate purchased renewable electricity including green-tariff contracts and renewable energy certificates as zero emissions.
For full transparency, we also disclose total electricity purchased at grid average carbon intensity.
Total purchased electricity includes emissions from purchased heat and steam.
Our carbon data is reviewed and assured by Bureau Veritas, an independent assurance provider.
Read the full carbon emissions statement 2016 in our Sustainability Report.
We can also have an influence on indirect emissions This free media space was worth 22.8 million in 2016 associated with our business activities our value chain 2015: 20.7 million, representing over another 1% of emissions.
These include emissions associated with reported profit before tax, bringing our total social advertisements we place for clients and the goods and services contribution to 42.3 million 2015: 40.2 million.
GroupM, our Media Investment Management identified an error in our exchange rate calculation for free business, is exploring how we can work with clients to reduce media space in 2015 and as a result have restated our data.
the carbon footprint of media campaigns.
We are integrating The WPP India CSR Foundation is investing US$5 our analysis of value chain emissions into procurement tools million in projects supporting education, life skills and to help us identify lower carbon procurement options.
vocational training for children aged 11-18.
We launched Common Ground in 2016, a new Social investment collaboration between the worlds six biggest advertising and marketing services groups.
Common Ground aims to Our companies make a significant contribution to use the power of communication to help achieve the United organisations working in areas such as poverty alleviation, Nations Sustainability Goals.
WPP is focusing on the goal health, human rights and the environment, through our social of gender equality, which is important both in its own right investment.
This includes pro bono work, providing marketing as well as having attendant benefits for tackling poverty services and insight for little or no fee, helping charities to and improving education and economic growth.
Our achieve their objectives, raise funds and recruit members.
companies are involved in a number of pro bono projects We gave 19.5 million in pro bono services and charitable aimed at tackling gender bias and stereotyping in the media donations during 2016 2015: 19.4 million, equivalent and promoting opportunity for women and girls.
More to 1.03% of reported profit before tax 2015: 1.30%.
details will be available in our Sustainability Report.
Our companies also negotiate free media space for charity campaigns enabling them to reach a wide audience.
- ---.......... '... -.... fy : '..... : - '....... -......... ' : ---om-.. :,.. p.. - - C - '... -.. ' :.... -...... : : Corporate governance: How the Company is governed, including risk management and activities of the Board Statements of compliance UK Corporate Governance Code compliance The Board considers that WPP complied in all material respects throughout 2016 with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Internal control WPP operates a system of internal control, which is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC guidance on risk management and internal control.
How we comply --- We have structured this section around the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code to enable share owners to evaluate how the principles have been applied.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 169 How we comply Corporate governance Leadership The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to share owners for the Groups financial and operational performance and risk management.
Responsibility for the development and implementation of Group policy and strategy and for day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board to the Group chief executive and Group finance director.
The list of matters reserved to the Board can be downloaded from the website wpp.
During 2016, the Board met eight times formally six scheduled meetings and two meetings held at short notice and held 16 committee meetings throughout the year.
Compensation Nomination and Attendance of directors at meetings Board Audit Committee Committee Governance Committee Roberto Quarta Chairman 8 4 5 4 Sir Martin Sorrell 8 Paul Richardson 8 7 1 Roger Agnelli 1 2 Jacques Aigrain 7 7 5 Charlene Begley 8 7 3 2 Tarek Farahat 2 Ruigang Li 6 3 Nicole Seligman 8 7 5 4 Daniela Riccardi 6 4 Hugo Shong 7 4 Sir John Hood 7 5 Tim Shriver 8 5 Sally Susman 8 4 Sol Trujillo 8 7 1 Roger Agnelli tragically died on 19 March 2016.
2 Tarek Farahat was appointed on 11 October 2016.
3 A ll of the directors attended the scheduled meetings of the Board in the year during their tenure with the exception of Jacques Aigrain and Ruigang Li who each missed one meeting.
4 T wo unscheduled meetings of the Board took place which were attended by all the directors eligible to attend, except Hugo Shong, Sir John Hood and Ruigang Li who sent apologies for one unscheduled meeting and Daniela Riccardi who sent apologies for both unscheduled meetings owing to prior commitments.
170 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we comply Corporate governance The role of the chairman Effectiveness The Board is chaired by Roberto Quarta, who chairs the Nomination and Governance Committee and is a member The composition of the Board of the Compensation Committee and attended all meetings The Board is composed of 14 directors.
Two current of the Audit Committee at the invitation of its chairman.
members are Executive Directors and 12, including the The chairman provides the leadership of the Board and is chairman, are non-executive directors.
Two non-executive the main point of contact between the Board and the CEO.
directors will be retiring at the AGM in 2017, following The chairman represents the Board in discussions with share which the Board will be composed of 12 directors.
The owners and investor bodies, ensures that systems are in place independence of each non-executive director is assessed to provide directors with timely and accurate information, annually by the Board.
The Board has confirmed that represents the Company in external gatherings, and is also all of the non-executives standing for election and responsible for the Board governance principles.
He has re-election at the 2017 AGM continue to demonstrate led the ongoing emphasis on management development and the characteristics of independence.
CEO and senior management succession planning.
Succession: Board and committee membership The role of the senior independent director The following changes to the Boards roles and The senior independent director is Nicole Seligman who composition took place during 2016 and early 2017: is available to share owners and acts as a sounding board Tarek Farahat was appointed to the Board on for the chairman and as an intermediary for the other 11 October 2016 and joined the Audit Committee on directors with the chairman, when necessary.
The senior 24 February 2017. independent directors role includes responsibility for the Charlene Begley and Tim Shriver announced that they chairmans appraisal and succession and this year the will both be retiring from the Board at the AGM in 2017.
Nicole Seligman was appointed to the Board in January 2014 and has served on the Time commitment Compensation Committee.
As the senior independent Letters of appointment for non-executive directors do not director, Ms Seligman customarily attends all Board set out a fixed time commitment for Board attendance and committee meetings at the invitation of the chairmen duties but give an indication of the likely time required.
It is of those committees.
anticipated that the time required by directors will fluctuate depending on the demands of the business and other events.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors have a diverse range of skills, Development experience and backgrounds.
As detailed in their biographies On joining WPP, non-executive directors are given an on pages 116 to 119, the non-executive directors work across induction which includes one-to-one meetings with the globe in media and advertising, investment banking and management and the external auditors, briefings on the investment management, pharmaceuticals, logistics and duties of directors of a Jersey company, the Share Dealing bioenergy, FMCG, international management consulting, Code, WPP Code of Conduct and the UK Corporate private equity and angel investing, business education, Governance Code.
The induction also covers the Board manufacturing, consumer products and retail management, committees that a director will join.
All directors are fully internet start-ups, government and non-profit organisations.
briefed on important developments in the various business They provide constructive challenge and assistance to the activities which the Group carries out worldwide and Group chief executive in developing the Groups strategy.
regularly receive extensive information concerning the All directors have access to the services of the Company Groups operations, finances, risk factors and its people, Secretary and may take independent professional advice enabling them to fulfil their duties and obligations as at the Companys expense in conducting their duties.
The directors are also frequently advised on The Company provides insurance cover for its directors regulatory and best practice requirements which affect the and officers.
Groups businesses on a global basis.
One Board meeting a year is held in a location other than London or New York.
In 2016, the Board met in Berlin, where it received briefings from all the heads of the Groups European operations.
