AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit Committee Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Audit Committee The Audit Committee plays report for theyear.
akey role in ensuring the There were no changes to the composition ofthe Audit Committee from last year and Stephen Daintith continues to attend each effectiveness of the meeting as an observer.
Each member is stillconsidered to possess Companysinternal controls up-to-date andappropriate financial or accounting experience and continues to be independent for the purposes of the Governance and risk management process.
Biographies of the members of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 42 to 43.
The Audit Committee met three times atappropriate times in the reporting and auditing cycle this year.
The attendance ateach meeting is disclosed on page 46.
The Audit Committee plays a key role in ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management process.
Under its terms of reference, which remain unchanged from last year, the Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its financial oversight and audit responsibilities by: monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements: reviewing significant financial returns to regulators and any significant financial information contained in other documents: considering annually whether there should be an internal audit function and making a recommendation to the Board: considering and making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, re-appointment, resignation or removal ofthe Groups external auditor, to be put to shareholders for approval: overseeing the selection process for and relationship with external auditors: and reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems.
We carried out an evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee this year which concluded that it maintained its independence and created constructive challenges, and it adequately covered financial reporting and judgements, risk management and compliance requirements.
This report describes the key tasks undertaken by the Audit Committee, its major areas of activity and how it discharged its responsibilities during the 2016 financial year, with reference to therequirements of the Governance Code.
It sets out how the AuditCommittee assessed external audit effectiveness and safeguards in relation to the provision of non-audit services bytheCompanys auditor and it states the significant issues thatthe Audit Committee considered in relation to the financial statements, and how these issues were addressed.
I look forward to meeting with you at the Annual General Meeting in February to answer any further questions you may have about the work of the Audit Committee.
Duncan Tatton-Brown Chairman, Audit Committee 48|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Corporate governance The Audit Committee reviews and approves the Board the financial results for the financial Composition of the Audit Committee There was no change to the composition the annual audit plan and ensures that it year ended 30 September 2016.
As part isconsistent with the scope of the audit ofthat review process, the members of the ofthe Audit Committee during the year.
engagement, reviewing and monitoring Audit Committee reviewed the Annual Report, The Audit Committee comprises four theextent of the non-audit work undertaken the adequacy of the disclosure with respect Independent Non-Executive Directors.
by the external auditor, advising on the to reporting on a going concern basis and the Itischaired by Duncan Tatton-Brown, the appointment of the external auditor, overseeing viability statement, and whether the Annual Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Groups relationship with its external auditor Report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and its other members are Sherry Coutu, and reviewing the effectiveness of the external and understandable.
The Audit Committee VinMurria and Robin Klein.
It also reviews and monitors the received advice from external advisers during continues to attend the meetings of the external auditors independence and objectivity.
the drafting process in order to assist the AuditCommittee as an observer appointed Board in determining that the report is fair, byDaily Mail & General Trust plc.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and balanced and understandable at the time that approving the Annual Report and Accounts The Audit Committee complied with provision it was approved.
The Committee considered and the half-yearly reports remains with the the appropriateness of preparing the accounts on C. 3.1 of the Governance Code throughout Board.
The Audit Committee will give due theyear, which recommends that an audit a going concern basis, including consideration consideration to laws and regulations, the of forecast plans and supporting assumptions committee should comprise of at least provisions of the Governance Code and the threeindependent non-executive directors.
and concluded that the Companys financial requirements of the Listing Rules.
position was such that it continued to be Inaddition to this, the provision requires at least one member of the Audit Committee to The Audit Committee reviews the content of appropriate for accounts to be prepared on a the Annual Report and Accounts and advises going concern basis.
The Companys viability have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers that, by virtue of his current the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is statement can be found on page 29. fair, balanced and understandable and provides and former executive and non-executive roles, details of which are set out on page 42, the information necessary for shareholders Significant issues considered in relation toassess the Groups performance, business Duncan Tatton-Brown possesses recent and to the financial statements relevant financial experience to comply with model and strategy.
The Committee, together with Management the requirements of the Governance Code.
and the Groups external auditor, considered Full reports and updates are provided to the The Board also considers that the Audit the following significant matters in relation Board throughout the year on how the Audit Committee as a whole has competence tothe financial statements and how these Committee has discharged its responsibilities.
relevant to the digital media, software, were addressed.
The full Audit Committee terms of reference comparison and property sectors in which Revenue recognition the Company operates.
are available on the Groups corporate The Groups revenue recognition is limited in website at www.
The attendance of each member at the Audit complexity: however, as the Group continues Committee meetings is shown on page 46. to expand its product offering the level of Activities of the Audit Committee The Chairman of the Company, the Chief judgement will inherently increase.
At each Audit Committee meeting throughout Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer the year, the Audit Committee received a risk For the Property Services division the majority attend meetings of the Audit Committee by update from the business to comply with the of revenue relates to recurring subscriptions invitation, as do Deloitte LLP, the Companys Governance Code.
which are predictable in nature and invoiced external auditor, and other members of monthly.
However, the division operates a Management or the Board as appropriate.
The Audit Committee met on 19 November 2015 large volume of agreements, with varying to discuss the full year results for 2015, a risk The Company considers that the attendance terms, which may include differences in the management and internal audit update, a of an observer at the Audit Committee meetings timing of the billing of subscription fees and review by the Companys auditor and the will not prejudice the independence or proper the actual subscription period.
The acquisition viability statement to be included in the functioning of the Audit Committee.
of Property Software Group has introduced Annual Report.
additional revenue streams and judgement Roles and responsibilities In May 2016, the Audit Committee reviewed isrequired in determining the fair value of the Groups half-year results, the uSwitch The Audit Committee assists the Board in multiple contractual obligations, principally discharging its responsibilities with regard to earnout, a cyber-security and data protection the allocation of revenue to be recognised review, the results of a uSwitch risk workshop financial reporting and monitors the integrity oninstallation set-up and that which relates of the financial statements of the Company and a regulatory update.
and any formal announcements relating to On 12 July 2016, the Audit Committee met Revenue recognition for the Comparison the Groups financial performance, reviewing toconsider the auditors 2016 audit plan, Services division is recognised at the point any significant financial reporting judgements theAudit Committees evaluation results, atwhich a transaction on the Groups website contained in them.
theintegration plan of the Property Software is completed.
An element of Management It also reviews the Groups internal financial Group business following the completion ofthe judgement is required in calculating a revenue acquisition, a risk management and internal controls and internal control and risk management accrual, which estimates the number of systems and assists the Board in discharging audit update and an Annual Report plan.
successful switches in the period between its responsibilities with regard to internal thelast date of billing and the latest provider On 24 November 2016, the Audit Committee audit including considering annually whether data being made available.
reviewed and approved for consideration by there should be an internal audit function.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|49 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In accordance with proper standards, external Significant issues considered in relation Assessment of effectiveness auditors are required to adhere to a rotation to the financial statements continued oftheexternal audit process policy whereby the audit engagement partner The Audit Committee oversees the relationship Revenue recognition continued is rotated after five years.
The previous audit For both divisions there is a risk that revenues with the external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte engagement partner was appointed in 2012 but, attends meetings of the Audit Committee by may not be recorded in the correct accounting due to his previous role as the audit engagement period.
Management has discussed the invitation and remains in constant communication partner for certain of the Companys significant with members of the AuditCommittee, as composition and the recognition principles operations, could serve as the audit engagement ofeach revenue stream and the controls well as the Executive Directors and other partner for only two years after the Group members of the Board asappropriate.
thereon with the Committee during the year.
Therefore, in accordance with The Committee is satisfied that no material The Audit Committee also makes independence requirements, a new audit issues have been identified or arisen.
recommendations to the Board, for it to put to engagement partner was appointed for this Furthermore, revenue recognition was an area the shareholders for their approval at the AGM, financial year.
The Chairman of the Audit inrelation to the appointment of the external of focus for the Groups external auditor during Committee met with the new engagement the audit.
The external auditor reported on their auditor and to approve the remuneration and partner on a regular basis throughout terms of engagement of the external auditor.
As work auditing the Groups revenue streams.
This work included reviewing streams in the part of this responsibility, the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has authority to take approved the audit plan for the year ended Property Services division on a month-by-month independent advice as it deems appropriate basis for anomalies and detailed testing over 30September 2016 and reviewed the auditors in order to resolve issues on auditor findings and Management representation letters.
the revenue balance, including the impact independence.
No such advice has been ofthe Property Software Group.
For revenue Prior to recommending the appointment of required to date.
Deloitte at the forthcoming AGM to the Board, streams in the Comparison Services division, the auditors work was particularly focused the Audit Committee reviewed the external The external auditor is also required periodically auditprocess, the performance of the auditor on the judgemental year end revenue accrual to assess whether, in its professional opinion, where historical experience is used as a basis and its ongoing independence, objectivity and it is independent and those views are shared effectiveness, taking into account input from for estimating the likely value of switches with the Audit Committee.
It was concluded tobe confirmed by third parties.
Management, responses to questions from that the external auditor assessed itself theAudit Committee and the audit findings tobeindependent.
The acquisition of Property Software Group reported to the Committee.
On 28 April 2016 the Group completed its The Committee confirms it is in compliance Based on this review, the Audit Committee acquisition of Property Software Group.
with the provisions of the Statutory Audit concluded that the external audit process had Theprocess of determining the fair value of Services for Large Companies Market been run efficiently and that Deloitte LLP has assets and liabilities acquired is inherently Investigation Order 2014. remained effective in its role as external auditor.
judgemental and there is a risk that inappropriate methodologies or assumptions could lead to Independence assessment the valuation of acquired intangibles, goodwill Approach to appointing the external bytheAuditCommittee or the fair value of other net assets acquired auditor and how objectivity and Based on the fact that the auditor and audit being misstated.
independence are safeguarded engagement partner rotation policy has been The Groups current auditor is Deloitte LLP.
complied with, the Audit Committee is satisfied The Committee has reviewed the disclosure Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups inthe financial statements in relation to the that the independence of the external auditor auditor in 2012.
The Audit Committee notes is not impaired.
Furthermore, the level of fees acquisition and has discussed the accounting that FTSE 250 companies should put the for the transaction and the valuation of paid for non-audit services does not jeopardise audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
Audit and non-audit fees are intangibles and other assets with both Toavoid significant disruption, the Financial Management and the Groups external auditor.
set out in Note 5 to the financial statements.
Reporting Council has provided details of The Committee notes that the Group engaged The Audit Committee noted that the auditor transitional arrangements which would mean a third party valuations specialist to assist with has not provided any non-audit services, that as Deloitte became the auditor after the purchase price allocation exercise, however, other than the interim financial review, during 2000, the Company would not need to certain inputs into the model, including forecast the period.
undertake a tender review until 2023. cash flows, are prepared by Management.
TheCommittee is satisfied that the judgements The Committee has assessed the performance As stated in last years report, the Committee and independence of the external auditor and and estimates made by Management are has adopted a policy covering the independence appropriate and that these assumptions have recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the external auditor consistent with the of Deloitte LLP as auditor until the conclusion been subject to sufficient review by the ethical standards published by the Audit Groups external auditor.
Practices Board and the engagement of the external auditor for the provision of non-audit Impairment of goodwill and intangibles services.
This policy is available on the Internal audit The Group holds a significant amount of Provision C. 3.6 of the Governance Code Groups website.
goodwill and intangible assets on the Statement states that where there is no internal audit of financial position as a result of acquisitions.
The policies above highlight the Committees function within a company, the Audit These assets are subject to an annual impairment preference to engage with parties other than Committee should consider annually whether review, which requires an estimation of the the external auditor, with regards to non-audit there is a need for an internal audit function recoverable value.
The Committee has reviewed services, unless there is a considerable benefit and make a recommendation to the Board, the assumptions used by Management in its to doing so and any activity is within the with the reasons for the absence of such a impairment assessment and the available restrictions of all relevant legislation and function to be explained.
Last year, the Audit headroom for each cash generating unit and ethical standards.
Committee recommended to the Board that is comfortable that these assets are not impaired.
50|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Corporate governance it was not necessary to appoint a permanent are designed to ensure the accuracy and There have been no changes in the Groups internal audit function but, rather, there should reliability of financial reporting and govern internal control during the financial year be a focus on specific areas supplemented thepreparation of financial statements.
The under review that have materially affected, with ad hoc reviews.
This recommendation Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups orare reasonably likely to materially affect, has not changed.
During the year the Group system of internal controls and risk management the Groups control over financial reporting.
has continued to perform ad hoc reviews and and discharges its duties in this area by: The Board, with advice from the Audit has worked with third parties to bring in holding regular Board meetings to consider Committee, is satisfied that an effective system independent specialist expertise to review a the matters reserved for its consideration: of internal controls and risk management is number of areas including revenue recognition, inplace which enables the Group to identify, as a key accounting judgement particularly receiving regular Management reports evaluate and manage key risks and which following a number of acquisitions, and which provide an assessment of key risks accord with the guidance provided by the cyber-security.
It is expected that Management and controls: FRC Internal Control: Guidance to Directors.
will continue to work with third parties, where scheduling annual Board reviews of These processes have been in place since the appropriate, to both identify and mitigate risk.
strategy including reviews of the material start of the financial year and up to the date The Audit Committee based its decision on risks and uncertainties facing the business: of approval of the accounts.
several factors including a clear business model ensuring there is a clear organisational with a reasonably simple Group structure, Whistleblowing structure with defined responsibilities single country focus, an open and accountable The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy, andlevels of authority: culture with clear authority limits and the the Speak-Up Policy, which encourages assurance gained from Management reports, ensuring there are documented policies employees to report any malpractice or illegal third parties and the external auditor.
and procedures in place: and acts or omissions ormatters of similar concern by other employees or former employees, The Audit Committee will continue to work scheduling regular Board reviews of financial contractors, suppliers or advisers using a closely with the external auditor to review budgets, forecasts and covenants with prescribed reporting procedure.
The policy itsinternal audit processes and assess the performance reported to the Board monthly.
facilitates thereporting of any ethical need for a permanent internal audit function In reviewing the effectiveness of the system wrongdoing ormalpractice or suspicion going forward.
of internal controls, the Audit Committee which may constitute ethical wrongdoing carries out the following duties: ormalpractice.
Internal control and risk management review the risk register compiled and Examples include bribery, corruption, fraud, The Board is responsible for the overall system maintained by Management within of internal controls for the Group and for dishonesty and illegal practices which may reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with theGroup and question and challenge endanger employees or third parties.
There where necessary: the FRC Internal Control: Guidance to Directors have been no instances of whistleblowing publication, it carries out a review of its during the year under review.
regularly review the system of financial suitability and effectiveness at least annually, and accounting controls: and covering all material controls including financial, Control environment report to the Board on the risk and control operational and compliance controls and risk The Board is committed to business management systems.
integrity, high ethical and moral values andprofessionalism in all its activities.
In respect of the Groups financial reporting, This year, the Group carried out a risk TheGroup has policies in place for: the finance department is responsible for management workshop with key members of preparing the Group financial statements Management and the Leadership Team.
This anti-bribery and corruption: using a well established consolidation process involved rigorous scrutiny over a list of risks working with third parties: and ensuring that accounting policies are to the Group and identifying the principal risks inaccordance with International Financial to the business.
The relevant key individuals gifts and entertainment: and Reporting Standards.
All financial information contributed to the discussions involving these share dealing.
published by the Group is subject to risks and the extensive feedback collected recommendation by the Audit Committee from the workshop was provided to the Audit Accountability tothe Board for approval.
Committee for consideration and review.
The Board is required to present a fair, balanced Further details of risk management frameworks As part of the Property Software Group and understandable assessment of the and specific material risks and uncertainties acquisition the Group has integrated the Companys financial position and prospects.
facing the business can be found on Property Software Group financial reporting The responsibilities of the Directors and pages24to 29. process into the Groups reporting process.
external auditor are set out on pages 75 and The system of internal controls is designed to This phase of integration was undertaken 80.
As set out in the Directors report, the following completion of the Property Software manage and diminish rather than eliminate Directors consider the Companys business to the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Group acquisition and ensures that Group be a going concern.
The Companys viability management accounts are generated in a and can only provide reasonable and not statement can be found on page 29. absolute assurance against material timely manner.
The integration of uSwitchs financial reporting process into the Groups misstatement or loss.
reporting process following the acquisition The Group has operating policies and controls last year has now completed.
in place covering a range of issues including Duncan Tatton-Brown financial reporting, capital expenditure, business Chairman, Audit Committee continuity and information technology and appropriate employee policies.
These policies Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|51
