BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board Mike Evans Alex Chesterman OBE Andy Botha Duncan Tatton-Brown Sherry Coutu CBE Non-Executive Chairman Founder & Chief Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Independent Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment date May 2014 April 2014 April 2016 May 2014 May 2014 Committee membership A N R A N R A N R A N R A N R Experience Mike became Chairman of Alex founded ZPG in 2007 Andy joined ZPG in 2016 Duncan became a Director Sherry became a Director of ZPG in 2014.
He has been and remains with the Group and is currently Group of ZPG in 2014.
She currently Chairman of Hargreaves as its CEO.
Previously, Andy currently CFO of Ocado chairs The ScaleUp Institute Lansdown plc since 2009, co-founded LOVEFiLM, wasChief Commercial Group plc, which he joined and Founders4Schools and which he joined as a Europes leading online andFinancial Officer in 2012.
Previously, Duncan serves on the board of the non-executive director in DVD rental service, which ate-commerce website was CFO of Fitness First plc London Stock Exchange plc, 2006.
Mike is a qualified was successfully sold to notonthehighstreet.
com and prior to that was Raspberry Pi and the Finance actuary with over 30 years Amazon.
Alex is recognised and, prior to that, Andy Group Finance Director Committee of the University experience in the financial as one of the UKs leading spent five years at Betfair ofKingfisher plc.
He is also digital entrepreneurs and plc, one of the UKs most held senior finance positions she chaired Interactive the Senior Independent has been a winner of the successful internet at B&Q plc, Virgin Investor International plc Director of Chesnara plc.
Ernst & Young Entrepreneur businesses, where he Entertainment Group and served as a director He was formerly a of the Year Award as well heldsenior commercial andBurton Group plc and ofLSEG plc, Jarvis plc and Non-Executive Director as having been awarded an and financial roles.
was also a Non-Executive RM plc where she was SID.
ofesure Group plc and OBE for Services to Digital PriortoBetfair, Andy Director of Rentokil Initial plc.
Sherry was awarded a Chief Operating Officer Entrepreneurship.
Alex wasUKFinance Director Duncan holds a masters CBEin 2013 for Services atSkandia UK Limited.
holds an honours degree atlastminute.
degree in Engineering from toEntrepreneurship and Heholds a BSc in inEconomics from Andyisa qualified Kings College, Cambridge she holds an MBA from Mathematics from the LondonUniversity.
and is a member of the Harvard, an Msc from University of Bristol.
Chartered Institute of theLondon School of Management Accountants.
Economics and a BA from the University of British Columbia in Canada.
A Member of the Audit Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman 42|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Corporate governance Robin Klein Vin Murria Stephen Daintith Kevin Beatty Grenville Turner Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment date May 2014 July 2015 May 2014 July 2016 May 2014 Committee membership A N R A N R A N R A N R A N R Experience Robin became a Director Vin became a Director Stephen became a Kevin became a Director Grenville became a Director of ZPG in 2014.
She has Directorof ZPG in 2014. ofZPG in 2016.
He is a founding partner of 25years experience Heis currently Finance as CEO of DMG Media, the Non-Executive Director LocalGlobe, Leading Seed ofworking with private Director of Daily Mail & consumer media operation ofDCLG, Chairman of Venture Capital firm and equity-backed and publicly General Trust plc, which he of Daily Mail & General Watkin Jones plc, Chairman was previously a venture listed companies, focusing joined in 2011.
Previously, Trust plc, which publishes of Bellpenny Ltd and partner at Index Ventures.
Stephen was COO and the Daily Mail, The Mail on Chairman of Titlestone Ltd. LocalGlobe first invested Until March 2015 Vin was CFO of Dow Jones, a Sunday, Metro, Mail Online, Grenville is also Vice inZoopla in 2007 prior to the Chief Executive Officer subsidiary of News Corp. Mail Plus, Metro digital Chairman of the English its launch.
Robin is a serial of Advanced Software He has also held several editions and Elite Daily.
He was entrepreneur and angel Group plc, an AIM-listed CEO and CFO positions in Heis a board member of formerly the Chief investor in a number of the healthcare and business various overseas markets the NMA and represents Executive and Chairman UKs leading high growth management software for British American the UK publishing industry ofCountrywide plc internet businesses.
Stephen started as Second Vice President andChief Executive of Companies he has backed founded in 2008 and his career as an accountant on the Board of WAN-IFRA.
at an early stage include exited to Vista Private at Price Waterhouse and Kevin is also a Non-Executive Hepreviously served as LastMinute.
Named Quoted holds a degree from Director of the PA Group aDirector of St Jamess Provocateur, LOVEFiLM, Company Entrepreneur LeedsUniversity.
and the Chairman of the Place plc, Sainsburys Wonga, Secret Escapes, ofthe Year 2014 and RFC, the body that funds Bank plc and Rightmove Fizzback, Tweetdeck, Woman of the Year in the the Independent Press plc.
Grenville qualified Graze, FreeAgent, 2012 Cisco Everywoman Standards Organisation.
asaChartered Banker Skimlinks and Moo.
Technology Awards, Vin is andholds an MBA from a successful entrepreneur Cranfield Business School.
with a strong background in technology-based international business.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|43
