NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder The Nomination Committee is The Nomination Committee responsible for leading the process has worked diligently to ofBoard appointments and making keep under review the recommendations to the Board.
This balance ofskills, knowledge year, amongst other activities, it was involved with finding a replacement andexperience on ChiefFinancial Officer, which led theBoard.
The Nomination Committee has worked diligently tokeepunder review the balance ofskills, knowledge andexperience on the Board to ensure the orderly evolution of the membership of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board on composition and balance.
The Nomination Committee hasbeen proactive in discharging these responsibilities, cognisant of the importance of succession planning and the need to align Board and Executive leadership skills to the Groups long-term strategy.
In this report, I explain how the Nomination Committee has discharged its responsibilities in greater detail.
Under its terms of reference, the Nomination Committee is required to meet at least twice during each year at appropriate times in the reporting and auditing cycle.
TheNomination Committee followed the terms and metfour times during the year.
Mike Evans Chairman, Nomination Committee 52|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Corporate governance In accordance with provision B.
2.3 of the Composition Diversity The Nomination Committee is chaired Governance Code, all Non-Executive Directors Whilst the Group pursues diversity, including are appointed for three year terms subject to byMike Evans and its other members are gender diversity, throughout the business, Alex Chesterman, Sherry Coutu, Robin Klein re-election and to statutory provisions relating and the Board endorses the aspirations of to the removal of a director.
Details of each and Duncan Tatton-Brown.
David Dutton theDavies Review on Women on Boards, stepped down from the board of Daily Mail Directors appointment are set out in the theBoard is not committing to any specific Directors Remuneration Report on page 71.
&General Trust plc in June 2016 and so no targets.
The Board consists of two female longer attends as an observer appointed by Directors 20% of the Board.
However, The full terms of reference of the Nomination DailyMail & General Trust plc.
Daily Mail & theNomination Committee will give due Committee are available on the Groups General Trust plc nominated Kevin Beatty consideration to Board balance and diversity website at www.
tobe appointed to the Board of the Company when making new appointments to the Board as one of the two Daily Mail & General Trust and recognises that a broadening of diversity Activities of the Nomination Committee plc nominated Directors with effect from also broadens the talent pool available for During the year, Stephen Morana indicated 1July2016 and Kevin is an observer on Board appointments.
his intention to step down from the Board theNomination Committee.
and the Nomination Committee was tasked The Board will engage executive search firms Provision B.
2.1 of the Governance Code who have signed up to the voluntary code of with appointing a new Chief Financial Officer.
recommends that a majority of the Nomination The Nomination Committee used Renaissance conduct setting out the seven key principles Committee be Non-Executive Directors, of best practice to abide by throughout the Leadership Ltd, an external independent search independent in character and judgement and firm with no connection to the Company, recruitment process and will continue to free from any relationship or circumstance follow a policy of appointing talented people toconduct a broad search and nominate which may, could or would be likely to, or appropriately qualified candidates to replace at every level to deliver high performance.
appear to, affect their judgement.
As such, The Board will also ensure that its own Stephen for the approval of the Board.
the Board considers that the Company TheNomination Committee prepared a development in this area is consistent with complies with the Governance Code in this itsstrategic objectives and enhances Board description of the role and detailed the respect.
The Company considers that the capabilities required for the role.
For further information on attendance of an observer at Committee diversity within the Group, see the Our People was formal, rigorous and transparent and the meetings will not prejudice the independence appointment was made on merit, against and Corporate Social Responsibility section or proper functioning of the Committee.
on page 38. objective criteria and with due regard for thebenefits of diversity.
This led to the Roles and responsibilities appointment of Andy Botha as the new ChiefFinancial Officer of the Group with The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to effect from 18 April 2016.
Mike Evans the composition and make-up of the Board Chairman, Nomination Committee and any Committees of the Board.
It leads the Succession planning process of Board appointments and makes The Group has developed a sophisticated recommendations to the Board.
approach to succession planning within theExecutive Directors and the Executive The Nomination Committee is responsible for Management Team using performance and evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge potential matrices.
This material was presented and experience and the size, structure and to and considered by the Nomination composition of the Board and Committees Committee over the course of the year.
It considers retirements and appointments of additional, and replacement, The Senior Management of the Group has Directors and Committee members and makes been strengthened following the integration appropriate recommendations to the Board of uSwitch and Property Software Group, on such matters.
It also ensures that membership facilitating the appointment during the of the Companys Committees is continually yearof the Group Strategy Director and refreshed and that undue reliance is not theManaging Director of the Property placed on any particular individuals.
alsoresponsible for appropriate succession planning for both theBoard and Senior Management.
The Nomination Committee has evaluated each Director and has recommended to the Board that there is an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience within the Board and that the size, structure and composition of the Board andits Committees are appropriate.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|53
