CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Promoting and upholding the highest standards of corporate governance The Board confirms that it has applied all of There is a formal schedule of matters reserved Compliance with the UK the principles of the Governance Code with for the Boards approval whilst it has delegated Corporate Governance Code the following exception: other specific responsibilities to its Committees.
The following schedule sets out key aspects The Board is committed to Provision B.
1.2 of the Governance Code of the affairs of the Company which the promoting and upholding the recommends that at least half of the board Board does not delegate.
These have not ofdirectors of a UK listed company, excluding highest standards of corporate changed from last year and include: the chairman, should comprise non-executive governance as it believes that directors determined by the board to be responsibility for the overall management of the Group: independent in character and judgement this enables the accomplishment andfree from relationships or circumstances approval of the Groups business strategy of the Groups mission and which may affect, or could appear to affect, and objectives, budgets and forecasts and the directors judgement.
The Board is currently strategy, whilst providing any material changes to them: comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman information and transparency andnine other Directors, of whom four monitoring the delivery of the Groups areconsidered to be wholly independent.
business strategy and objectives and toshareholders.
Therefore, the Company does not currently responsibility for any necessary This Corporate Governance Report, which fully comply with the requirements of the correctiveaction: incorporates reports from the Audit and Governance Code.
oversight of operations, ensuring adequate Nomination Committees on pages 48 to 53 Despite this, the Board believes that there systems of internal controls and risk together with the Strategic report on pages was an appropriate combination of Directors management are in place, ensuring 02 to 39, the Directors remuneration report on the Board with a broad and diverse spread maintenance of accounting and other on pages 54 to 71 and the Directors report on of knowledge and experience, commensurate records and ensuring compliance with pages 72 to74, explains how the Company with the size of the Company and such that statutory and regulatory obligations: complies with the UK Corporate Governance no individual or small group of individuals Code the Governance Code and the approval of any extension of the Groups dominated the Boards decision taking.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules activities or any decision to cease to Board intends to explore avenues to resolve and Disclosure and Transparency Rules operate any material part of the this one remaining non-compliance issue in throughout theyear.
Groupsbusiness: the next financial year.
For the year ended 30 September 2016, the approval of any changes relating to the The Companys auditor is required to review Company was subject to the edition of the Groups capital structure and material whether the above statement reflects the Governance Code published by the Financial changes to the Groups management Companys compliance with the Governance Reporting Council in September 2014, which andcontrol structure: Code specified for its review by the Listing can be found at www.
Rules and to report where the above does approval of the financial statements, A new version of the Governance Code was notreflect such compliance.
The Companys Annual Report and Accounts, material published in April 2016 and applies to financial auditor has made no such report.
contracts and major projects: years beginning on or after 17 June 2016. approval of the dividend policy: Nonetheless, the Company has applied the The role of the Board principles of the new version of the Governance ensuring a sound system of internal The Board is collectively responsible for Code from June 2016, which can be found control and risk management: thelong-term success of the Company and atwww.
provides leadership to the Group.
It sets approval of any major capital project: theGroups strategic aims and ensures the approval of communications with necessary financial and human resources are shareholders and the market: in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
It is responsible for the conduct of the Groups determining changes to structure, size business and development and reviews the andcomposition of the Board: performance of the Executive Management determining remuneration policy for the Team.
TheBoard is also collectively responsible Directors and Executive Management Team for ensuring that a thorough system of internal and approval of the remuneration of the control and risk management including Non-Executive Directors: and financial, operational and compliance controls and for reviewing the overall effectiveness approval of all major policies within ofthe existing systems is in place and for theGroup, including the share dealing, theapproval of any changes to the capital, anti-bribery and health and safety policies.
corporate and or management structure of the Group.
The Board met seven times this year to discuss various matters relating to the business of the Company and in relation to the acquisition of Property Software Group.
44|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Corporate governance All Directors have access to the advice and The Role of the Chairman and the ChiefExecutive Officer services of the Company Secretary, who has There is a clear division of responsibilities atthe head of the Company between the running responsibility for ensuring compliance with the ofthe Board and the running of the Groups business.
The Board is chaired by Mike Evans, Boards procedures.
The Company Secretary whowas independent on appointment in May 2014. ensures that there is a good information flow Mike is responsible for the effective leadership of the Board, having regard to the interests of between the Executive Management Team all stakeholders and promoting high standards of corporate governance.
On the other hand, and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Alex Chesterman, the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for implementing the Boards strategy, Secretary is responsible for advising the overseeing the day-to-day management of the Group and leading theExecutive Management Team.
Each of the Directors have the right to have their opposition The two roles are different and distinct from one another.
The division of responsibilities to, or concerns over, any Board decision noted between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is clearly established to ensure that in the minutes.
nosingle position holds unfettered powers of decision-making.
These divisions have been established by the Board and are set out in writing, including the following: Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties and the Board THE ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN THE ROLE OF THE CHIEF Committees are provided with sufficient EXECUTIVE OFFICER To run the Board effectively by resources to undertake their duties.
ensuring meetings are held with To manage the Group on a day-to-day appropriate frequency.
basis within the authority delegated Board composition by the Board.
The Board consists of a Non-Executive To ensure the frequency and depth Chairman, four independent Non-Executive ofevaluation of the performance To ensure, with the Executive Directors, three Non-Executive Directors and ofthe Board and its Committees Management Team, that Board two Executive Directors.
Short biographies isincompliance with best practice.
ofall members of the Board appear on To chair the Nomination Committee, To develop and propose Group pages42 and 43.
The Board is satisfied that, to lead the process for Board strategy, annual plans and between the Directors, it has an effective appointments and to identify commercial objectives andappropriate balance of independence, andrecommend candidates tothe Board.
knowledge of the Company, diverse skills fortheapproval of the Board.
andexperience, including without limitation in the areas of retailing, finance, international To promote a culture of openness and trading operations, e-commerce, digital media debate, in particular by facilitating the and marketing, in order to enable it to discharge effective contribution of Non-Executive its duties and responsibilities effectively.
Directors and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Board Committees Non-Executive Directors.
The Board delegates a set of defined To hold meetings with the responsibilities and decision-making authority Non-Executive Directors without to the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Executive Directors or Senior Committees so that it can devote its time Management present.
efficiently and resourcefully to any relevant matters reserved for the Board.
To ensure that shareholders views arecommunicated to the Board as The composition of each Committee is compliant awhole so that all Directors develop with the Governance Code and each Committee an understanding of their views.
operates with written terms of reference, all of which are available on the Groups corporate website, www.
co. uk, and isolated reports for each Committee are included in this The role of the Senior Independent Director Annual Report from pages 48 to 71.
4.1 of the Governance Code provides that the Board should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to the role of Senior Independent Director SID to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary forthe other Directors when necessary.
Duncan Tatton-Brown has remained as the SID of the Board and is available to shareholders ifthey have concerns which the normal channels through the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the other Executive Directors have failed to resolve or are inappropriate.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED It is the Boards opinion that all the Non-Executive Directors, whether independent or not, Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Governance Code sets out the constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
circumstances that should be relevant to Length of appointments theBoard in determining whether each Non-Executive appointments to the Board are for a period of up to three years, extendable Non-Executive Director is independent.
byno more than two additional three-year periods.
TheBoard has concluded that Duncan Tatton-Brown, Sherry Coutu, Robin Klein Board & Committee attendance andVin Murria were independent Directors Date of Audit Remuneration Nomination throughout the period.
Mike Evans was appointment Board Committee Committee Committee independent on appointment as Chairman and has remained independent throughout Total meetings 7 3 3 4 the period.
Alex Chesterman 23 April 2014 7 7 4 4 Since the IPO in June 2014, the Company has Andy Botha 18 April 2016 3 3 had a relationship agreement the Relationship Agreement in place with its principal Stephen Morana 23 April 2014 3 4 shareholders ultimate parent company, Mike Evans 1 May 2014 7 7 3 3 4 4 DailyMail & General Trust plc.
The main purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to Duncan Tatton-Brown 1 May 2014 7 7 3 3 3 3 4 4 ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries Sherry Coutu 1 May 2014 6 7 3 3 3 3 4 4 arecapable of carrying on their business Robin Klein 1 May 2014 7 7 3 3 4 4 independently of Daily Mail & General Trust plc, that transactions and relationships with Grenville Turner 21 May 2014 6 7 DailyMail & General Trust plc are at arms 1 1 David Dutton 21 May 2014 5 5 2 2 3 3 length andon normal commercial terms, and 1 1 Stephen Daintith 21 May 2014 7 7 2 3 1 1 that thegoodwill, reputation and commercial interests of the Group are maintained.
1 Kevin Beatty 1 July 2016 1 2 0 1 Under the terms of the Relationship Vin Murria 1 July 2015 7 7 3 3 2 3 Agreement, Daily Mail & General Trust plc canappoint two Directors, providing it holds 1 Observer.
more than 25% of the votes exercisable at general meetings of the Company, and one Board packs are distributed five working days Board operation Director, providing it holds more than 10% The Board met seven times last year to review prior to each meeting in accordance with the ofthose votes.
terms of reference to provide sufficient time the operational performance of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will remain in force At these meetings, the Board reviewed the for the Directors to review their papers in for so long as a the shares of the Company advance.
If Directors are unable to attend Groups long and short-term strategic direction are listed on the premium listing segment of and financial plans and monitored the Groups aBoard meeting for any reason, they the Official List and b Daily Mail & General nonetheless receive the relevant papers and performance against the agreed strategy Trust plc or any of its associates together are andbusiness plan.
Due to the acquisition are consulted prior to the meeting and their entitled to exercise or to control the exercise views are made known to the other Directors.
ofProperty Software Group, the Board met of 10% or more of the votes which are generally more often than the anticipated number of exercisable at general meetings of the Company.
times for the year to make certain decisions Conflicts of interest The two Directors appointed by Daily Mail & relating to the transaction.
At the end of a The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to General Trust plc are Stephen Daintith and number of the Board meetings, the Chairman disclose such situations for authorisation by Kevin Beatty who was appointed on 1 July and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Board are the personal responsibility of 2016 following the retirement of David Dutton the Executive Directors present to discuss the each Director.
All Directors are required to from Daily Mail & General Trust plc and his Executive Directors performance during the ensure that they keep these duties under resignation from the Board.
meetings and the quality of the papers and review and to inform the Company Secretary toair any concerns about the running ofthe on an ongoing basis of any change in their The Company confirms that the terms of the business to ensure the ongoing effectiveness respective positions.
Relationship Agreement have been fully of the Board and its processes.
complied with during the year.
The Companys conflict of interest procedures The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that are reflected in its Articles of Association the The Board does not deem Grenville Turner to the Directors receive accurate, timely and Articles.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, be independent given his historic relationship clear information.
Prior to each scheduled the Articles allow the Directors to authorise with Countrywide plc, a customer and previously Board meeting, a pack is circulated in respect conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, a major shareholder in the Group.
In April 2016, of the corresponding financial period, which where appropriate.
The decision to authorise Grenville stepped down from his role as includes an update on key performance targets, a conflict can only be made by non-conflicted Non-Executive Chairman of Countrywide plc, investor relations and trading performance Directors.
The Board considers conflicts or having previously stepped down as its Chief against budget as well as detailed financial potential conflicts at each Board meeting.
The Board data and analysis.
intends to reassess his independence during the next financial year.
46|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Corporate governance completed, including the running of a well Alex Chesterman is currently a Director of Directors and officers liability insurance The Articles require the Company to indemnify planned Strategy Day in March 2016, the Devalink Limited, Hoopla Limited and Barcote regular update of succession and Park Management Limited.
These appointments its officers, including officers of wholly owned subsidiaries, against liabilities arising from the improvement in the flow of information.
are not deemed to adversely impact the Directors ability to carry out their roles.
conduct of the Groups business, to the extent The Governance Code provides that evaluation permitted by law.
The Group has therefore of the boards of FTSE 350 companies should The Non-Executive Directors appointment purchased Directors and Officers liability be externally facilitated at least every three letters anticipate a time commitment of 10 days insurance during the year.
Therefore, the Chairman will be per year, recognising that there is always the considering whether an equivalent review possibility of an additional time commitment Board development should be externally facilitated in the next and ad hoc matters arising from time to time, The Non-Executive Directors have all met key financial year.
particularly when the Company is undergoing members of the Executive Management Team aperiod of increased activity.
The average time The SID, Duncan Tatton-Brown, together with and advisers to the Company, many of whom commitment inevitably increases where a the Independent Non-Executive Directors, have given presentations to the Board and Non-Executive Director assumes additional evaluated the performance of the Chairman Committee members during various Board and responsibilities such as being appointed based upon input from other Board members.
Committee meetings, in order to familiarise toaBoard Committee.
There was a scheduled timetable of presentations Election of Directors Relations with shareholders throughout the year, including an introduction According to the Articles, the Board can As part of its investor relations programme, to Property Software Group given by the appoint any person to be a Director, either to theExecutive Management Team maintained Managing Director of the Property Services fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing anactive dialogue with its key stakeholders, division which included various product Board.
Any Director so appointed by the including institutional investors, to discuss demonstrations and a presentation on the Board shall hold office only until the next issuesrelating to the performance of the Group strategy of the Company from the Group following AGM and shall then be eligible including strategy and new developments.
Strategy Director, and external regulatory forelection by the shareholders.
TheCEO and the CFO undertook an investors lawyers provided a session to the Board The Companys next AGM will be held on roadshow around the UK and the US in onthe Financial Conduct Authoritys 2February 2017.
In accordance with the Articles, December 2015 and June 2016 and the compliance obligations.
Andy Botha, who was appointed by the Board Companyheld its first Capital Markets Day in on 18 April 2016, and Kevin Beatty, who was September 2016 which was well attended and During the year, the Chairman reviewed and agreed with each Non-Executive Director appointed by Daily Mail & General Trust plc received overwhelmingly positive feedback.
on 1 July 2016 to replace David Dutton, will Inthis way, the Board was able to develop their individual training and development needs.
In addition, under the guidance of the beoffering themselves for election at the anunderstanding of the views of major forthcoming AGM.
In addition, and in order shareholders about the Company.
The Chairman, the Company Secretary established a formal induction training process for new tocomply with the Governance Code, the Non-Executive Directors are always available remaining Directors will also be offering todiscuss any matter stakeholders might Directors, who will receive an induction briefing from the Company Secretary on their themselves for re-election.
Full details are set wish to raise.
outin the notice of meeting accompanying duties and responsibilities as Directors of a Investor relations activity and a review of the publicly quoted company.
For the induction thisAnnual Report.
share register form an active part of the Boards of Andy Botha, he was provided with the As noted above, following the formal internal agenda.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive constitutional documents of the Company, evaluation process of the effectiveness of the Directors have attended, and are available to had one-on-one meetings with every member Board, the Board, including the Chairman, is attend, investor relations meetings and have of the Executive Management Team and satisfied that each Director remains competent the ability to request meetings with investors wasalso provided with key information to discharge his her responsibilities as a or analysts independent of the Groups onthe business by various key employees.
Inaddition to this, Andy also met with external advisers, investors and analysts.
External appointments Tax strategy At the time of his appointment as Chairman, The Group seeks to apply the spirit as well Board evaluation the Board noted that Mike Evans was Chairman asthe letter of the law with regards to UK tax In accordance with the provisions of the of Hargreaves Lansdown Plc, but the view legislation, believing that the Group should Governance Code, the Board carried out a was taken that this would not adversely pay its fair share of tax on the profits arising formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its impact his ability to carry out his role.
Historically, the Group has own performance and that of its Committees always taken a conservative approach to tax and individual Directors this year.
The Board The Executive Directors may accept outside planning and strategy.
No effective tax rate review was internally facilitated by the Chairman appointments provided that such appointments target is set by the Board and the Group and involved numerous individual discussions do not in any way prejudice their ability to haveno motive to enter into tax mitigation with each of the Directors and the Company perform their duties as Executive Directors arrangements that could be considered as Secretary.
The consensus view was that the ofthe Company.
abusive in the current climate.
One of our Board and its Committees were operating growth mechanisms is through acquisitions, effectively.
The majority of the agreed actions meaning that acquisition-based tax advice from the previous years review had been isof regular occurrence.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|47
