Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Assessment of the independence of the Non-Executive Directors Nominations The Committee reviewed the independence of all the Non-Executive Directors and in particular Philip Yea and Nick Land, who have both and Governance served on the Board for over nine years.
The Committee considered their length of tenure on the Board, independence and other Committee external commitments.
As a result of its assessment, the Committee is confident that Philip and Nick continue to demonstrate qualities The Committee continues its work of ensuring the of independence and judgement in carrying out their roles.
In addition, Board composition is right and that our governance the Committee believes that Philips and Nicks external commitments is effective.
have not negatively impacted their commitment to Vodafone and therefore recommended to the Board that Philip and Nick stand for reappointment at the 2016 annual general meeting.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent.
Board evaluation The Committee oversaw the external evaluation of the Board and Chairman Committees.
A description of the process and conclusions of the Gerard Kleisterlee evaluation is set out on page 45.
Chairman of the Board Independent on appointment Succession planning The Committee received several presentations throughout the year Key objective: from the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director.
To make sure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary The presentations provided details of the changes to the Vodafone skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective organisational structure in order to deliver our strategy as well in discharging its responsibilities and to have oversight of all as succession planning for senior management.
Potential successors matters relating to corporate governance.
have been identified for the top senior management positions and the Committee reviewed the profiles for all of these positions during the year.
Responsibilities: The Committee also monitors a schedule on the length of tenure a assessing the composition of the Board and making of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and the mix and skills recommendations on appointments to the Board and senior of the Directors.
executive succession planning: The Committee is satisfied that adequate succession planning a overseeing the performance evaluation of the Board, is currently in place for the Executive Directors and senior executives, its committees and individual Directors: and but will keep succession planning under review and monitor the progress and success of the development plans which have been a overseeing all matters relating to corporate governance, bringing established for relevant employees.
any issues to the attention of the Board.
Diversity The terms of reference of the Committee are available Vodafone acknowledges the importance of diversity and inclusion on vodafone.
to the effective functioning of the Board.
This includes diversity of skills and experience, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, cultural Committee meetings background or belief.
The Committee met five times during the year.
I invite other individuals 25% of our Board roles are held by women and our ambition over the and external advisers to attend all or part of any meeting, as and coming years is to increase that proportion further.
Diversity extends beyond the boardroom.
The Board supports I report to the Board, as a separate agenda item, on the activities of the management in its efforts to build a diverse organisation and endorses Committee at the following Board meeting.
the Groups Recruiting and Managing People policy, one of the David Nishs appointment objectives of which is to attract and develop a highly qualified and The Committee reviewed the mix and skills of the Board and diverse workforce and ensure that all selection decisions are based identified that it would be valuable for a Non-Executive Director on merit.
to be appointed who had financial expertise and capital markets skills Governance as well as experience as a chief executive.
A description of the role The Committee reviewed Vodafones compliance with the 2014 and capabilities required for this appointment was prepared.
Sciteb, UK Corporate Governance Code and was satisfied that Vodafone an external search consultancy, was appointed, which has no other complied with the Code during the year.
It also received updates connection to Vodafone and has signed up to the voluntary Code on corporate governance developments during the year and of Conduct for Executive search firms.
David was identified as a suitable considered the impact of these developments on Vodafone.
He was invited to meet with the members of the Committee and following those meetings, the Committee recommended to the Board that he be invited to become a Non-Executive Director.
The Board accepted the recommendation and David accepted the Boards invitation and became a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2016.
Gerard Kleisterlee Changes to the Board and Committees On behalf of the Nominations and Governance Committee The changes made to the composition of the Board and Committees 17 May 2016 during the year are set out on page 54.
