Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Our approach to governance Creating long-term value A commitment to act with integrity at all times is integral to the creation of shareholder value.
We fully complied with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code during the year.
What were the Boards main priorities during What do the Non-Executive Directors bring the year?
The Boards role is to define the long-term strategic objectives for It is essential to ensure that the composition of the Board reflects the the Group and then evaluate progress against those objectives while strategic priorities of the Group and provides a variety of informed ensuring there is a strong and effective system of corporate governance insights to determine the appropriate approach to the management in place at all levels.
2016 was another important transitional year for of risk.
Each of the Directors brings a particular perspective to every Vodafone: as I explain in my introduction on page 3, our expansion across discussion, shaped by their backgrounds in a number of industries 4G, cable and fibre networks and TV and content services is transforming and roles over many years, which underpins the Boards commitment our businesses.
A key priority during the year was to ensure that the as a whole to rigorous scrutiny and analysis of the Groups key issues significant investments involved were allocated in a manner most and opportunities.
We provide a summary of each Directors experience likely to maximise returns to shareholders over time as well as enhance on pages 40 and 41. our customers experience.
We also continued to focus on measures During the year, we were pleased to welcome David Nish to the Board.
to mitigate the wide range of operating and commercial risks that are David is a highly experienced business leader with extensive financial inherent to our industry and which are summarised on pages 22 to 28. expertise and capital markets skills.
Enhancing diversity in the boardroom, the executive team and at all How would you describe the decision making levels in Vodafone is also a priority.
This includes diversity of skills culture of the Board?
and experience, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, cultural Highly collaborative and collegiate with a strong emphasis on open background and belief.
and honest debate involving all of the Directors.
As Chairman, I strive to ensure that Vodafone has a Board that works effectively and where I am pleased to report that 25% of our Board roles are held by women.
We are fortunate to be able to draw on a diverse Our ambition over the coming years is to increase that proportion range of professional skills and backgrounds around the boardroom further.
Details of our commitment to increase the number of women table and I encourage each Director to share their intuitions to enrich in executive roles and to empower our female customers are set out the Boards collective understanding.
in our 2016 Sustainable Business Report.
We seek to ensure that every Director has the facts and background What are the Boards key objectives for the context necessary to reach informed conclusions on the matters before coming year?
We provide an insight into our induction process for new Directors on page 45.
All Directors have access to training and specialist In March 2016 we concluded the largest organic investment briefing opportunities to ensure they remain fully aware of major programme in Vodafones history.
Project Spring was designed to bring developments in this highly complex and dynamic industry.
about a material enhancement to the quality of the networks and services relied on by 462 million mobile customers and 13 million fixed broadband customers and as we explain on pages 10 and 14, that goal has largely been achieved.
The priority for the year ahead will be to ensure that the Groups momentum post-Project Spring translates into stronger financial performance as well as a much better experience for our customers.
Our return to growth after more than six years of significant macroeconomic pressure in Europe is very welcome.
Contents We intend to sustain that positive trend although, it should be noted, 38 Chairmans introduction 47 Board committees we continue to face a number of challenges in some markets.
We will 39 Our governance framework 54 Compliance with the 2014 also maintain our focus on the effective management of risk and UK Corporate Governance Code on compliance with the high standards of corporate governance across 40 Board of Directors 56 Our US listing requirements the Group.
42 Executive Committee 57 Directors remuneration 44 Board activities 74 Directors report 45 B oard evaluation, induction and training 46 Shareholder engagement Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman We comply with the corporate governance statement requirements pursuant to the 17 May 2016 FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules by virtue of the information included in this Governance section of the Annual Report together with information contained in the Shareholder information section on pages 175 to 181.
