Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the financial year and to the date of this B.
Effectiveness document, we complied with the provisions and B.
1 The composition of the Board applied the main principles of the 2014 version of the The Board consists of 12 Directors, nine Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
11 Directors served UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Changes made to the composition of the Board and Committees during Council website frc.
This table sets out how the year were as follows: we have applied the main principles of the Code, a Philip Yea became Senior Independent Director on 28 July 2015 after cross referring to other parts of this Annual Report.
Luc Vandevelde stepped down from the Board.
Stephen Pusey also This table is intended to assist with the evaluation stepped down from the Board in July 2015: of our compliance during the year and should a Valerie Gooding became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee be read alongside the Governance section as a whole.
on 28 July 2015: and Headings correspond to the headings in theCode.
a Valerie Gooding joined the Nominations and Governance Committee on 2 November 2015.
The auditors report on the corporate governance statement is on page 86.
Dr Mathias Dpfner joined the Remuneration Committee on 1 April 2016.
Leadership It is expected that David Nish will join the Audit and Risk Committee A.
1 T he role of the Board on 29 July 2016.
The Boards responsibilities are set out on page 39 along with The balance and independence of the Board is kept under review by the a statement of how it operates.
Its terms of reference are The Board held seven scheduled meetings during the year and holds available at vodafone.
Philip Yea, Nick Land and Samuel Jonah have served on the Board All Directors are expected, wherever possible, to attend all Board for ten, nine and seven years respectively.
The Board has determined and relevant Committee meetings.
Details of such attendance are that they, along with all of the Non-Executive Directors, continue on page 41. to demonstrate qualities of independence and judgement in carrying out their roles, supporting the Executive Directors and senior A.
3 Division of responsibilities and therole management in an objective manner.
Their length of service and of the Chairman resulting experience are of great benefit to the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate: their key responsibilities are set out on page 39.
2 Appointments to the Board David Nish was appointed as a Non-Executive Director from 1 January Board meetings are arranged to ensure sufficient time is available for the 2016.
Further details on the appointment process are set out discussion of all items.
on page53, which also includes the Boards policy on diversity.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
4 Non-Executive Directors The Board is satisfied that the external commitments of its Chairman Philip Yea has been Senior Independent Director since July 2015 when and other Non-Executive Directors set out on pages 40 and 41 he took over from Luc Vandevelde who stepped down from the Board.
do not conflict with their duties and commitments as Directors of the Philip: Company.
Directors must: a acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for a report any changes to their commitments to the Board: the other Directors: a complete an annual conflicts questionnaire.
Any conflicts identified a is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not are considered and, as appropriate, authorised by the Board.
been able to otherwise resolve: If authorised, it is recorded in a register and reviewed periodically: and a reviews the performance of the Chairman annually: and a notify the Company of actual or potential conflicts or a change in circumstances relating to an existing authorisation.
a if necessary, convenes meetings of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for using their skills, appointment letters are available for inspection at our registered office experience and independent judgement to: and at our annual general meeting.
a constructively challenge the strategy proposed by the B.
4 D evelopment Executive Directors: Details of Board induction and training and development are set out a scrutinise and challenge performance and risk management across on page 45. the Groups business: and a assess the risk and integrity of the financial information and controls.
The Chairman met with just the Non-Executive Directors at every Board meeting this year.
54 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 B.
5 I nformation and support Further information can be found in the Directors statement There is a procedure to enable Directors to take independent legal and of responsibility on pages 76 and 77 and in the Audit and Risk or financial advice at the Companys expense, managed by the Group Committee report on pages 47 to 52 which also covers the oversight General Counsel and Company Secretary.
No such independent advice and monitoring of the system, and its effectiveness.
was sought in the 2016 financial year.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditor The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary also: The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for governance around both the internal audit function and external auditor and for oversight a assists the Chairman by organising induction and training of the Groups systems of internal controls.
programmes and ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information: Further details on the Audit and Risk Committee and its activities are set out on pages 47 to 52.
Its terms of reference are available a ensures that the correct Board procedures are followed: and at vodafone.
a advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
D. Remuneration The removal of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary D. 1 and D. 2 The level and components of remuneration is a matter for the Board as a whole.
6 E valuation a The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the Information on Board evaluation is set out on page 45. policy on remuneration of the Chairman, executives and senior B.
More information is set out on pages 57 to 73.
All Directors have submitted themselves for re-election at the a The Chairman of the Board and the Remuneration 2016 annual general meeting with the exception of David Nish Committees Chairman are also responsible for maintaining contact who will be elected for the first time in accordance with our Articles with the Companys principal shareholders about remuneration.
Full details are set out in its terms of reference, available The Nominations and Governance Committee confirmed to the Board at vodafone.
that the contributions made by the Directors continue to be effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
E. Relations with shareholders The biographies for our Directors can be found on pages 40 and 41.
E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Chairman ensures that there is effective communication C. Accountability with investors and that the Board understands the views C. 1 F inancial and business reporting of major shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy.
He is available to meet shareholders for this purpose.
The following statements can be found in this Annual Report Statement Pages The other members of the Board are also available to meet major investors on request.
The Directors statement of responsibility regarding 76 and the financial statements, including the going 77 Further information is set out on page 46. concern assessment.
E. 2 C onstructive use of the annual general meeting A statement confirming that the Board considers that 76 Our annual general meeting will be held on 29 July 2016 and the Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group balanced and understandable and provides the information business and present questions to the Board.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
a A summary presentation of the full year results is given before the A statement on the responsibility of our auditor set out in the 78 to 86 Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
a All shareholders can question any member of the Board both during An explanation of the Companys business model and the 6 to 13 the meeting and informally afterwards.
The Board encourages strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company.
participation of investors at the meeting.
C. 2 S ystem of risk management and internal control a The meeting is also broadcast live and on demand on our website An overview of the Groups framework for identifying and managing risk at vodafone.
is on pages 22 to 28. a Voting on all resolutions is on a poll.
The proxy votes cast, including The Board has overall responsibility for the system of risk management details of the votes withheld, are disclosed to those in attendance and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and has at the meeting and the results are published on our website and conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the announced via the Regulatory News Service.
Company, including those that would threaten its business model, a A copy of our notice of meeting can be found at vodafone.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate business risks and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mistreatment or loss.
The long-term viability statement can be found on page 29.
The Board has implemented in full the FRC Guidance on Risk Management Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting for the year and to the date of this Annual Report.
The resulting procedures, which are subject to regular monitoring and review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Companys principal risks.
