Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Board committees Membership The membership of the Committee has been selected with the Audit and aim of providing the range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to meet its responsibilities.
Given my experience, I continue Risk Committee to be designated as the financial expert on the Committee for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the UK Corporate The Committee continued to focus its work on Governance Code.
There were no changes to the membership of the the Groups financial reporting, financial control and Committee during the year, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors risk management and compliance processes.
Committees role was expanded this year to provide How the Committee operates assistance to the Board with assessing compliance with The Committee met five times during the year under its standard elements of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
schedule of meetings, an increase from the four meetings in the last financial year, a change reflecting its increased responsibilities particularly in relation to risk management.
Meetings of the Committee generally take place the day before a Board meeting to maximise the efficiency of interaction with the Board and I report to the Board, Chairman and as a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters financial expert of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of its work.
Nick Land Independent Non-Executive Director The external auditor,  LLP, is invited to each meeting together with the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Key objectives: Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial The provision of effective governance over the appropriateness Reporting Director, the Group Audit Director, the Group Risk and of the Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy Compliance Director, and the Group General Counsel and Company of related disclosures, the performance of both the internal Secretary.
The Committee also regularly meets separately with each audit function and the external auditor and oversight over the of  LLP, the Chief Financial Officer and the Groups system of internal control including risk management and Group Audit Director without others being present.
In the year, the Board appointed an external company to perform an independent review of the Committee which concluded that Responsibilities: the Board members considered the Committee to be fully effective The Board has approved terms of reference for the Committee in meeting its objectives.
which are available at vodafone.
These provided the framework for the Committees work in the year and can Financial reporting be summarised into four primary sets of activities.
These are The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the oversight of the: Groups financial reporting is to review with both management and the external auditor the appropriateness of the half-year and annual a appropriateness of the Groups external financial reporting: financial statements concentrating on, amongst other matters: a relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor: a the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: a Groups system of internal control, including risk management a material areas in which significant judgements have been framework and the work of the internal audit function: and applied or where significant issues have been discussed with the a Groups system of compliance activities.
external auditor: The 2016 financial year has seen the Committees activities a the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting and terms of reference reviewed and expanded to reflect the standards and relevant financial and governance reporting Groups adoption of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, requirements, including the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code: to cover: a any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial a providing advice to the Board on the assessment, management reporting: and and mitigation of the principal risks facing the Group: a an assessment of whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, a monitoring the Groups risk management system and its is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information effectiveness: and necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
This assessment forms a providing advice on how the Groups prospects have the basis of the advice given to the Board to assist them in making the been assessed in order to make the new longer-term statement required by the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
47 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Board committees continued Accounting policies and practices Regulators and our financial reporting The Committee received reports from management in relation There has been no correspondence from regulators in relation to our to theidentification of critical accounting judgements and key sources financial reporting during the 2016 financial year.
of estimation uncertainty, significant accounting policies and proposed The Committee is committed to improving the effectiveness and clarity disclosure of these in the 2016 Annual Report.
This disclosure also of the Groups corporate reporting and has continued to encourage includes qualitative details in relation to IFRS 15 Revenue from management to consider, and adopt where appropriate, initiatives contracts with customers and IFRS 16 Leases, both of which are likely by regulatory bodies which would enhance our reporting, such as the to have a substantial effect on the Groups accounting when adopted.
FRC Lab projects on the use of digital media in corporate reporting, Following discussions with management and the external auditor, the disclosure of dividends and business model reporting.
the Committee approved these critical accounting judgements, Significant judgements and issues significant accounting policies and disclosures which are set out The significant areas of focus considered and actions taken by the in note1 Basis of preparation to the consolidated financial statements.
Committee in relation to the 2016 Annual Report are outlined below.
We discussed these with the external auditor during the year and, where appropriate, these have been addressed as areas of audit focus as outlined in the Audit Report on pages 79 to 86.
Significant judgements and issues Matter considered Action Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition, the recognition of revenue on An in-depth review of revenue accounting was undertaken by the a gross or net basis, the treatment of discounts, incentives and Committee during the previous financial year.
commissions and the accounting for arrangements with multiple  LLP shared its approach to the audit of deliverables are complex areas of accounting.
See note 1 Basis of revenue in their detailed audit plan, which identified the primary preparation for further detail.
risks attaching to the audit of revenue to be a the controls over In addition there is heightened risk in relation to the accounting the underlying accuracy of billing systems and b presumed fraud for revenue as a result of the inherent complexity of systems and risk, and reported on the results of its audit work in this area to the changing pricing models.
Committee at both the half-year and year end.
The Committee received reporting from  LLP in relation to revenue recognition and discussed a number of judgements in relation to the presentation of revenue and commissions.
The Committee was satisfied with the appropriateness of the revenue recognised in the financial statements.
Taxation The Group is subject to a range of tax claims and related legal actions The Group Tax Director presented on both provisioning and across a number of jurisdictions where it operates.
The most material disclosure of tax contingencies and deferred tax asset recognition at claim continues to be from the Indian tax authorities in relation to our the November 2015 and May 2016 Committee meetings.
He also acquisition of Vodafone India Limited in 2007, further details of which provided an update on upcoming changes in the wider tax landscape are included in note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
that were potentially relevant to the Group.
 LLP also identified this as an area of higher audit effort and the Further, the Group has extensive accumulated tax losses as detailed Committee received reporting from it on these matters.
in note 6 Taxation, and a key management judgement is whether a deferred tax asset should be recognised in respect of these losses.
The Committee challenged both management and As at 31 March 2016, the Group had recognised a 22,382 million  LLP on the legal judgements underpinning deferred tax asset primarily in respect of these tax losses.
both the provisioning and disclosure stance adopted in relation to material elements of tax contingent liabilities and the IFRS basis of, and operating assumptions underlying, the deferred tax assets recognised at the period end.
The Committee was satisfied with the approach adopted in the financial statements by management for each matter.
48 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Significant judgements and issues Matter considered Action Goodwill impairment testing This is an area of focus for the Committee given the materiality of the The Committee received detailed reporting from management and Groups goodwill balances 22.8 billion at 31 March 2016 and the challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions made, including: inherent subjectivity in impairment testing.
a the consistent application of managements methodology: The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment continue to relate a the achievability of the business plans: primarily to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the business, being the achievability of the long-term business a assumptions in relation to terminal growth in the businesses at the plan and the macroeconomic and related modelling assumptions end of the plan period: and underlying the valuation process.
See note 4 Impairment losses for further detail.
This remains an area of audit focus and  provided detailed reporting on these matters to the Committee, including sensitivity testing.
The Committee was satisfied with both the appropriateness of the analysis performed by management that indicated a goodwill impairment charge of 450 million in relation to Vodafone Romania, and the impairment related disclosures set out in note 4 to the financialstatements.
Liability provisioning The Group is subject to a range of claims and legal actions from a The Committee received a presentation from the Groups General number of sources, including competitors, regulators, customers, Counsel and Company Secretary and the Director of Litigation in both suppliers and on occasion fellow shareholders in Group subsidiaries.
November 2015 and May 2016 on managements assessment of the The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities is an most significantclaims.
issue where management and legal judgements are important and As this is an area of audit focus,  LLP also accordingly an area of Committee focus.
See note 30 Contingent reviews these claims and relevant legal advice received by the Group, liabilities and legal proceedings for further detail.
to form a view on the appropriateness of the level of provisioning that is shared with the Committee.
The Committee challenged both management and  LLP on the level of provisioning for legal claims and was satisfied that the amounts recorded appropriately reflected the risk of loss.
Significant one-off transactions The Committee reviewed the accounting and reporting of a number of Management outlined the key accounting and disclosure impacts in material one-off transactions.
These included: relation to these transactions.
a The recognition of spectrum assets and a corresponding liability The Committee received detailed reporting from of 2.7 billion during the 2016 financial year in relation to Vodafone  LLP on their assessment of the accounting India.
See note 22 Liquidity and capital resources for further detail.
and disclosures made by management in both the half-year and annual financial statements and were satisfied with the accounting a The issue by the Group in February 2016 of 2.9 billion and disclosure in the financial statements for both matters.
Key business controls The Group has continued to devote considerable resources to the The Committee reviewed the work performed by management in development of key business and related IT controls to ensure a relation to the implementation and maintenance of these controls, robust system of internal control.
During the year, this focused on including the degree to which they operated effectively throughout ongoing work programmes over general ledger account controls the year and at the year end.
This was supplemented by the results of and user access to the Groups core Enterprise Resource Planning related reviews performed by Internal Audit.
ERP system as well as new activity, including a multi-year project to The audit scope of  LLP included certain implement a suite of standard controls over the Groups core financial of these key business and IT controls and they reported to the processes and managing the business and IT control implications of Committee the results of their audit testing in these areas.
Further changes to the scope of the Groups section 404 of the US Sarbanesdetail is provided in the  LLP audit report on Oxley compliance activities.
The Committee was satisfied with the basis of managements report on internal control over financial reporting as required by section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and with managements ongoing focus on enhancements to the internal control environment.
49 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Board committees continued Other matters External audit The Committee also undertook a range of further activities in relation The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the to the Groups accounting and external reporting in the year: relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor.
This includes making the recommendation on the appointment, reappointment Adoption of recent accounting developments and removal of the external auditor, assessing their independence The Committee received regular reporting from management on an ongoing basis and for negotiating the audit fee.
on the Groups implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, which will be adopted in the financial year ending Auditor appointment 31 March 2019, focusing on the key decision points relating to the  LLP were appointed as the Groups external choice of IT system for generating the necessary accounting entries, auditor in July 2014 following an audit tender and, in accordance with systems integration, the methodology in which the standard would the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group will be required be adopted and programme resourcing.
The Committee will also review to put the external audit contract out to tender by 2024.
In addition, the Groups implementation of IFRS 16 Leases, which will be adopted  LLP will be required to rotate the audit in either the financial years ending 31 March 2019 or 2020, once partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and, as a result, management has more fully assessed the impact of the changes.
the current lead audit partner will be required to change in 2019.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee continues to review the auditor appointment and the As part of the Committees assessment of whether the Annual need to tender the audit, ensuring the Groups compliance with the Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the reforms of the audit provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the market by the UK Competition and Markets Authority.
Accordingly, Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, the Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the it draws on the work of the Groups Disclosure Committee and has Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under discussions with senior management.
The processes and controls that review.
For the financial year ending 31 March 2017, the Committee underpin our consideration include ensuring that: hasrecommended to the Board that  LLP be reappointed under the current external audit contract and the Directors a all contributors are fully briefed on the fair, balanced and will be proposing the reappointment of  LLP understandable requirement: at the annual general meeting in July 2016. a a dedicated and experienced core team is responsible for the Audit risk coordination of content submissions, verification, detailed review At the start of the audit cycle for the new financial year we received and challenge: from  LLP a detailed audit plan identifying a senior management confirms that the content in respect their audit scope, planning materiality and their assessment of key risks.
of their areas of responsibility is considered to be fair, balanced The audit risk identification process is considered a key factor in the and understandable: overall effectiveness of the external audit process, and the key risks for the 2016 financial year, which were unchanged from the previous year, a the Disclosure Committee reviews and assesses the Annual Report were as follows: as a whole: and a Taxation matters, including a provisioning claim for withholding tax a the Committee receives an early draft of the Annual Report to enable in India and the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets timely review and comment.
These processes allowed us to provide positive assurance to the a Carrying value of goodwill.
Board to assist them in making the statement required by the 2014 a Provisions and contingent liabilities.
Long-term viability statement Following the adoption of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code a Accounting for significant one-off transactions.
during the 2016 financial year, the Committees terms of reference were a Capitalisation and asset lives.
extended to include providing advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the long-term viability statement as set out on page 29. a Management override of internal controls.
The Committee reviewed the process and assessment of the These risks are regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure the Groups prospects made by management, including: external auditors areas of audit focus remain appropriate.
a the review period and alignment with the Groups internal Working with the auditor long-term forecasts: We hold private meetings with the external auditor at each Committee a the assessment of the capacity of the Group to remain viable meeting to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and after consideration of future cash flows, expected debt service feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management requirements, undrawn facilities and access to capital markets: and being present.
Matters typically discussed include the external auditors assessment of business risks, the transparency and a the modelling of the financial impact of certain of the Groups openness of interactions with management, confirmation that there principal risks materialising using severe but plausible scenarios.
has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management, the independence of their audit and how they have exercised Management also sought independent external advice on best practice professional scepticism.
I also meet with the external lead audit partner to ensure appropriate compliance with the requirements of the 2014 outside the formal Committee process throughout the year.
50 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Effectiveness of the external audit process For the 2016 financial year, the Committee considered the ongoing The Committee reviewed the quality of the external audit throughout fee proposal included as part of the audit tender, negotiated audit the year and considered the performance of  scope changes for the 2016 financial year and, following the receipt LLP, taking into account the Committees own assessment, the results of formal assurance that their fees were appropriate for the scope of the of a detailed survey of senior finance personnel across the Group work required, agreed a charge from  LLP focusing on a range of factors we considered relevant to audit quality, and related member firms of 12 million for statutory audit services.
feedback from  LLP on their performance In addition to the statutory audit fee,  LLP against their own performance objectives and the firm-wide audit and related member firms charged the Group 1 million for auditquality inspection report issued by the FRC in May 2015. related and other assurance services primarily in connection with local regulatory filings where we were legally required to appoint them Based on this review, the Committee concluded that there had been by virtue of their position as statutory auditor.
Further details of the fees appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit focus paid, for audit and non-audit services to both  and  LLP had applied robust challenge and LLP for the 2016 and 2015 financial years and to Deloitte LLP for scepticism throughout the audit.
the 2014 financial year, can be found in note 3 to the consolidated Independence and objectivity financial statements.
In its assessment of the independence of the auditor and in accordance with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards standard Internal control and risk management on independence, the Committee receives details of any relationships The Committee has the primary responsibility for the oversight of the between the Company and  LLP that may Groups system of internal control, including the risk management have a bearing on their independence and receives confirmation that framework and the work of the internal audit function.
they are independent of the Company within the meaning of the Assessment of Groups system of internal control, including securities laws administered by the US Securities and Exchange risk management framework Commission SEC.
The Groups risk assessment process and the way in which significant As one of the ways in which it seeks to protect the independence business risks are managed is a key area of focus for the Committee.
and objectivity of the external auditor, the Committee has a policy Our activity here was driven primarily by the Groups assessment of its governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 23 to 28. services.
This precludes  LLP from providing This year, the Committee performed a detailed review of the certain services such as valuation work or the provision of accounting Companys new risk management framework document which services and also sets a presumption that  LLP is designed to: clarify roles and responsibilities for risk management should only be engaged for non-audit services where there is no legal and oversight, set out a consistent end-to-end process for managing or practical alternative supplier.
risk across the business, provide the Board with a clear line of sight over For certain specific permitted services, the Committee has prethe principal risks, and provide an overview of how the principal risks approved that  LLP can be engaged are being managed.
Our review included reports from the Group Risk by management, subject to the policies set out above, and subject and Compliance Director on the Groups risk evaluation process as well to a 50,000 fee limit for individual engagements, a 500,000 total fee as a review of changes to significant risks identified at both operating limit for services where there is no legal alternative and a 500,000 entity and Group levels.
total fee limit for services where there is no practical alternative supplier.
The Committee also maintains a programme of in-depth reviews into For all other services or those permitted services that exceed these specific financial, operational and regulatory areas of the business.
specified fee limits, I, as Chairman, or in my absence another Committee These reviews are critical to the role of the Committee, as they allow member, can pre-approve permitted services.
us to meet key business leaders responsible for these areas and provide Following the publication by the Competition and Markets Authority independent challenge to their activities.
During the 2016 financial year, of its final order in relation to the responsibilities of the audit committee, the areas reviewed included: the Board approved amendments to the Committees terms of reference a the integration of KDG into Vodafone Germany and the transition during the 2016 financial year such that only the Committee can to Vodafone compliance standards: negotiate and approve the statutory audit fee, the scope of the statutory audit and approval of the appointment of the lead audit a changes to the Groups Enterprise operations to improve service and engagement partner.
delivery to customers: In addition, the Committee assessed the impact of further expected a the risk and control framework associated with implementation UK regulation restricting non-audit services that auditors can provide, of a new billing system in the Netherlands: including a cap on the amount of non-audit fees that can be billed and a the Groups cyber security strategy, covering network, IT and retail a list of prohibited services.
Consequently, the Groups policy on nonsystems: and audit fees will be amended to reflect these additional restrictions during the financial year ending 31 March 2017 for implementation in the a the Groups network resilience policy and the ability to recover from financial year ending 31 March 2018. a significant fault or challenge to normal operations.
The Group has in place an internal control environment to protect the business from the material risks which have been identified.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and we have responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of these controls.
51 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Board committees continued This year, the Group implemented an integrated assurance mapping Compliance activities process to improve the coordination of assurance activities across The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the the Group and to provide a framework that allowed a comprehensive Groups compliance programme and held a number of deep dive assessment of the assurance and compliance activities for the sessions on compliance-related matters in the year.
These focused on: Groups significant risks.
The mapping process was piloted in the UK and a changes to the control environment, including the creation Irish operating companies before being rolled out to all business units of two new management controls governance committees and during the second half of the 2016 financial year.
a redefined finance operating model providing greater clarity of roles We reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control and responsibilities: environment.
Our work here was driven primarily by the Group a updates to the Groups Code of Conduct, which is reviewed every Audit Directors reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, three years: significant identified frauds and any identified fraud that involved management or employees with a significant role in internal controls.
a the results from the annual Policy Compliance Review which tests Oversight of the Groups compliance activities in relation to section 404 the extent to which local markets and Group entities are compliant of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act also falls within the Committees remit.
with our high risk policies: The Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the a the results from our Doing Whats Right employee awareness and Groups system of internal control, including risk management, during e-learning programmes and other measures designed to assess the the year and up to the date of this Annual Report, in accordance with the culture of the organisation: requirements of the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control a the results of the use of Speak Up channels in place to enable and related Financial and Business Reporting published by the FRC.
employees to raise concerns about possible irregularities It confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in financial reporting or other issues and the outputs of any resulting in the review for the 2016 financial year and allowed us to provide investigations: and positive assurance to the Board to assist them in making the statements a the methodology for fraud reporting and investigations into required by the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where areas for known or suspected fraudulent activities by both third parties improvement were identified, processes are in place to ensure that the and employees.
necessary action is taken and that progress is monitored.
Internal audit Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group Internal Audit department is an agenda item at each Committee meeting.
We approve the annual audit plan prior Nick Land to the start of each financial year and receive updates from the Group On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee Audit Director on audit activities, progress against the approved Group 17 May 2016 audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas.
I play a major role in setting the Group Audit Directors annual objectives and we meet regularly to discuss the teams activities and any significant issues arising from their work.
Compliance with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act The Committee takes an active role in monitoring the Groups compliance activities in respect of section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, receiving reports from management in the year covering: a financial control governance: a changes to the section 404 programme, including scoping, the development of a standard controls framework and the development of a quality assurance programme: and a the enhancement of the wider control environment in response to ongoing business developments.
The external auditor reported the status of their work in relation to this matter in each of their reports to the Committee.
