Audit Committee report Membership Graham Clemett appointed June 2016 Simon Cloke stepped down as Chairman in June 2016 Mike Tye appointed April 2016 Sally Cowdry stepped down from the Committee in April 2016 Debbie Hewitt stepped down from the Committee in April 2016 Director Attendance Graham Clemett 2 2 Graham Clemett Simon Cloke 3 3 Sally Cowdry 1 1 Mike Tye 2 2 Debbie Hewitt 1 1 The Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises of three independent non-executive Directors chaired by Graham Clemett.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code the Board considers that Graham Clemett has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
Biographies of all Committee members, including a summary of their experience, appear on pages 28 and 29.
On an ongoing basis the Board reviews the composition of the Committee to ensure that it remains proportionate to the task and provides sufficient scrutiny of risk management and internal and external controls.
The Committee regularly invites the external audit lead partner, the external audit senior manager, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to its meetings.
The Committee meets privately with the external auditor at least twice a year and liaises with Company management in considering areas for review.
Role of the Audit Committee The principal role of the Committee is to monitor and review the integrity of the Companys financial results in advance of their consideration by the Board, to review the Companys internal controls and risk management systems and to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditor.
30 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key responsibilities 2016 Committee activities The Committee discharges its responsibilities through As required by its terms of reference three formal meetings of Committee meetings during the year at which detailed reports the Committee were held during 2016 to discharge its are presented for review.
From time to time, the Committee responsibilities.
The Committee considered the following commissions reports from external advisors or Company matters: management in relation to the Companys major risks or in Financial and narrative reporting: response to developing issues.
reviewed the full year and interim results and associated announcements: The Committees key responsibilities are to: considered whether taken as a whole the Annual Report provide additional assurance regarding integrity, quality and and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and reliability of financial information used by the Board and in whether they provided the necessary information for financial statements issued to shareholders and the public: shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy: review the Companys internal procedures on control and reviewed the suitability of the Groups accounting policies compliance for financial reporting to satisfy itself that these and practices: and are adequate and effective: discussed the Groups long-term viability and going concern review the principles, policies and practices adopted in the statements.
preparation of the Groups financial statements to ensure they comply with statutory requirements and generally External audit: conducted an audit tendering process: accepted accounting principles: received the external auditor review report on the Annual receive reports from the Groups external auditor concerning Report and Accounts and Interim Report process and external announcements, in particular the Annual Report discussed the 2015 year-end audit: and Accounts and the Interim Report: considered the scope and cost of the external audit: considered the effectiveness of the external audit process : develop and oversee the Companys policy regarding the considered the appropriateness of the Groups accounting external audit process, review their independence, review policies and practices: the provision of non-audit services they provide and review discussed the non-audit work carried out by the external and approve their remuneration: auditor and its impact on safeguarding audit independence: review the whistleblowing arrangements whereby employees and may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible considered the adequacy of the Groups non-audit policy improprieties in financial reporting or other matters, to and procedures to safeguard the objectivity and ensure there are proportionate and independent procedures independence of the external auditor.
in place: and Internal control and risk management: consider any other matter that is brought to its attention reviewed the Groups principal risk factors see page 11 : by the Board or the external auditor.
reviewed risk management and internal controls: established an executive senior management Risk Committee see page 54 and approved its terms of reference: and received updates and the minutes from the executive senior management Risk Committee.
Committee governance: reviewed and updated the Committee terms of reference: and conducted the annual Committee effectiveness review.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 31 Audit Committee report continued Financial and narrative reporting Specific accounting policy issues considered by the Committee include: Matter considered Significance Action taken by the Committee Impairment of tangible fixed assets The most quantitatively significant item on The Committee reviewed the proposals the balance sheet prepared by management setting out their approach and challenged the key judgements made relating to impairment as well as reviewing this topic in discussion with the external auditor.
Onerous contracts and other site A key area of focus for the Board and The provision requires judgement and closure related provisions Committee assessment of the facts across a range of likely outcomes.
The Committee considered managements approach to the calculation of the provision.
Additionally, this topic was reviewed and discussed at length with the external auditor.
Recognition and timing of commercial A key area of focus for the Board and The Committee reviewed the analysis discounts Committee undertaken by the external auditor on this topic and assessed the strength of management controls in this area.
Other areas considered included: External audit The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the management override of controls and consideration of bias relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor.
underlying key estimates or judgements: Annually the Committee undertakes a review of the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process.
whether the goodwill relating to the Pubs business was impaired: and Auditor effectiveness the key judgements supporting the share-based payments When considering the suitability of the external auditor for charge and tax.
re-appointment, the Committee takes account of: the findings set out in the Financial Reporting Councils No issues arose from consideration of these matters.
FRCs Audit Quality Review teams public report on Deloitte and their reports on other auditors in its sample: Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee carried out an assessment of whether the ability of the external auditor to add value through the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, observations from the audit process and interactions with balanced and understandable and provide the information the Companys management: necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
This assessment the arrangements for ensuring the independence and included a review for consistency of the narrative reporting objectivity of the external auditor: and the financial statements and forms the basis of the the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: advice given by the Committee to the Board to assist them in making this statement.
the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and Long-term viability and going concern statements the external auditors conclusions with regard to existing The Committee considered, with reference to a detailed management and control processes.
management paper, the Groups going concern and long-term viability statements.
The factors used when assessing the Groups viability for the next three years, together with the statement, are set out on page 12 and the Groups going concern statement on page 53.
32 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Auditor independence Audit tender To ensure the external auditor remains independent upon Deloitte was first appointed as external auditor in 2007 and in re-election the Committee takes into account the following: October 2016 the audit was retendered.
Four audit firms were invited to tender, this included one mid-tier firm and Deloitte, the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role the incumbent auditor.
The prospective auditors were of the external audit lead partner and their length of tenure: provided with extensive information, through an online data room, to enable them to understand the Groups business and the arrangements for day-to-day management of the the key risk areas.
This ensured that Deloitte was not at an external audit relationship: advantage.
The four prospective audit firms were then invited a report from the external auditor describing their to attend face-to-face presentation and interview sessions arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts with a panel of two members of the Committee: the of interest: Committee Chairman and Simon Cloke, together with the Chief Financial Officer and Director of Finance.
the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval of Following the presentations the panel, chaired by the the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: Committee Chairman, assessed the strengths of each audit and firm and made a recommendation to the Board.
The Board the past service of the external auditor.
discussed the recommendation and is proposing the reappointment of Deloitte by shareholders at the AGM to be Non-audit work and pre-approval policy held on 26 May 2017.
The Company has an audit engagement policy in place which is reviewed annually and adhered to.
Where non-audit work is The Company continues to adopt a policy of tendering the carried out by the external auditor, robust processes are put in external audit contract at least every 10 years and the rotation place to prevent auditor objectivity and independence being of the external audit lead partner every five years.
Pre-approved services within the policy can be mean that in 2017 the Deloitte audit lead partner will change to summarised as follows: Georgina Robb.
audit-related services, including work relating to the annual Internal controls and risk management Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and Internal audit function statutory accounts: and The Committee keeps under regular review the decision not to certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, have an internal audit function.
Currently it considers that the planning and advice.
responsibilities are being adequately discharged.
If an issue were to arise, the appropriate internal individuals and external The Company is committed to keeping non-audit fees low and advisers with the requisite skills would form a working group to in 2016, spend fell to 151,000, a ratio of 1:0.8 2015: 1:1.7.
2016 non-audit fees were incurred for the liquidation of a historic Spanish subsidiary of which Deloitte knew the history Senior management Risk Committee and were therefore best placed to carry out the work.
In October 2016 the senior management Risk Committee was established and the Committee approved its terms of To safeguard objectivity and independence the Committee reference.
As set out in the Risk Committees terms of also assesses whether the fees are appropriate to enable an reference, the Committee Chairman received regular reports effective, high quality audit to be conducted and on its activities.
For further details on the membership, roles independence maintained.
Further details on non-audit and responsibilities and Committee activities during 2016 see services can be found in note 3 on page 76. page 54.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 33 Audit Committee report continued Committee governance Committee terms of reference In November 2016 the Committee terms of reference were updated and approved by the Board.
The full terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
Committee effectiveness review Due to a number of Director changes including the appointment of a new Audit Chairman in the year, it was agreed that Committee evaluation would be completed internally.
This was carried out by way of a questionnaire in January 2017.
On behalf of the Audit Committee Graham Clemett Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 March 2017 34 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016
