Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report Membership Debbie Hewitt appointed Committee Chairman May 2016 Simon Cloke Sally Cowdry Mike Tye appointed April 2016 Graham Clemett appointed June 2016 Director Attendance Debbie Hewitt 6 6 Debbie Hewitt MBE Simon Cloke 7 7 1 Sally Cowdry 6 7 Mike Tye 4 4 Graham Clemett 3 3 1 Sally Cowdry missed one meeting due to the short notice on which it was called.
The Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises of at least three independent non-executive Directors.
In May 2016 Alan Jackson retired as Board and Committee Chairman and Debbie Hewitt was appointed.
Biographies of all Committee members, including a summary of their experience, appear on pages 28 and 29.
Role of the Nomination Committee The principal role of the Committee is to identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment to the Board, to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees, to keep under review the Groups executive leadership needs together with Board succession planning and Executive Committee succession planning.
Key responsibilities The Committee discharges its responsibilities through regular meetings during the year.
The Committees key responsibilities are to: review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and make recommendations of any changes: give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and the executive leadership and executive succession needs of the Group: recommend to the Board, Directors for annual re-election and keep under review Directors being re-elected for a term exceeding six years: and make recommendations for new Director appointments to the Board.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 35 Nomination Committee report continued 2016 Committee activities Director induction The Committee is required to hold two meetings as set out in On joining the Board, Directors receive an induction on the its terms of reference, however in 2016 seven formal meetings business, its strategy, the Boards role in setting the tone of were held.
The Committee considered the following matters: the Groups culture and the Directors role and requirements in influencing behaviour.
A series of meetings take place with key appointment of a new Chairman: executive personnel and Board colleagues and non-executive Directors are actively encouraged to meet with operational appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer: management and to visit the Groups restaurants to enhance appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer: their understanding of the business, its brands, employees and processes.
appointment of two new non-executive Directors: review of the Board size, structure and composition, with Training and development a view to increasing the number of non-executive Directors The Company acknowledges the importance of developing the by one: skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant courses review of Executive Committee succession planning: and seminars to acquire additional skills and experience to re-election of Directors at the AGM: enhance their contribution to the business.
The Board also has collective training sessions on relevant topics from time to time.
review and update of the Committee terms of reference: and conducted the annual Committee effectiveness review.
Succession planning The Committee keeps under review Executive Committee Board changes during the year succession planning to ensure the Company has a strong During 2016, the Board saw the appointment of a new leadership pipeline.
The Committee also monitors the tenure Chairman, Debbie Hewitt, in May 2016 and was refreshed with of non-executive Directors to ensure their independence is the appointment of two new non-executive Directors, Mike Tye maintained.
The Board currently has one Director 14% who and Graham Clemett, in April and June respectively and the has Board tenure of more than six years.
retirement of Tony Hughes and Alan Jackson at the 2016 AGM in May.
In April and August respectively Stephen Critoph, Annual re-election of Directors Chief Financial Officer and Danny Breithaupt, Chief Executive As required by the Code, all Directors are subject to annual Officer resigned and in June and September respectively, re-election and as such, details setting out why each Director Barry Nightingale was appointed as Chief Financial Officer is deemed to be suitable for reappointment will be included and Andy McCue as Chief Executive Officer.
with the AGM papers circulated to shareholders.
Board diversity Committee governance On an ongoing basis, the Committee keeps under review the Terms of reference tenure and qualifications of the executive and non-executive In November 2016 the Committee terms of reference were Directors to ensure it has an appropriate and diverse mix of updated and approved by the Board.
The full terms of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity.
reference are available on the Companys website at www.
The Committee is aware of, and embraces, the HamptonAlexander Review on Improving Gender Balance in FTSE Annual effectiveness review Leadership and its new targets of 33% female representation In 2016, due to the number of Director changes in the year, it on the executive committee and in their direct reports by was agreed that Committee evaluation would be completed 2020.
Although these recommendations do not apply to the internally, alongside the general Board review.
A questionnaire Group, as it sits outside the FTSE 100, the Board is aligned format was used.
The Board reflects 29% female representation and the Executive Committee excluding the On behalf of the Nomination Committee executive Directors reflects 33% female representation.
Debbie Hewitt MBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee 8 March 2017 36 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016
