Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance The Board has a wide range of responsibilities and my overall objective is to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and experience to leverage the opportunities and overcome the challenges that the Company faces and that it works effectively as a team to identify, prioritise, communicate and review the delivery of our goals.
With the skills and experience in place, my specific role is to ensure that there is the right mix of enquiry and support to the executive Directors from the nonexecutives and that it is done in the context of a culture that reflects strong levels of corporate governance.
The non-executive Directors discuss and agree the strategy with the executive Directors and hold the executives accountable for its execution: we ensure that we have the most talented team to execute this strategy and we set the tone for Debbie Hewitt MBE governance.
The Board is committed to creating and maintaining a culture where these strong levels of governance thrive throughout the organisation, specifically ensuring that we send out consistent messages on the core values of the Company and acceptable behaviours from our people, our suppliers and our advisers.
We have made good progress in moving towards best practice and we will regularly review the context, progress and maintenance of these standards, for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
Debbie Hewitt MBE Chairman The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 21 Corporate Governance continued 2016 has been a significant year of change for the Board, Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate with a number of new executive and non-executive Director Governance Code appointments.
Debbie Hewitt became Chairman of the Board The Company is required to measure itself against the UK in May 2016.
Mike Tye was appointed as non-executive Corporate Governance Code 2014 Code which is available Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in on the Financial Reporting Council website www.
April 2016, followed by Graham Clemett as non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in June 2016.
From June 2016 to 1 January 2017 the Company complied All three have added substantial executive experience in a with the principles set out in the Code, but for the decision listed environment, as well as industry and or adjacent that an independent committee evaluation would be deferred industry experience.
until the Board has had time to form and establish norms and that, instead, an internal one would be completed for the year Barry Nightingale was appointed as Chief Financial Officer ending 1 January 2017.
As noted in last years Directors in June 2016, bringing substantial executive turnaround report, from January to May 2016, the Company complied experience.
Andy McCue was appointed in September 2016, with the code except for the independence of the Chairman: bringing proven experience as a listed company Chief who was previously executive Chairman before being Executive Officer who has successfully grown shareholder appointed to the role of non-executive Chairman in January value in a multi-site consumer business.
Further explanations of how the Main Principles of the Code have been applied are set out below and also in the Following Andys appointment, the business has been working Directors remuneration report and the Audit Committee hard to identify and communicate our strategic priorities, to report.
ensure a stronger focus on the customer and the proposition of our various brands and to strengthen the leadership and to Leadership instil a more effective capital management programme.
The Role of the Board executive team have also instigated a streamlining of IT and The Boards role is to provide strong value-based leadership operational processes.
The Board recognises and embraces of the Company, within a framework of prudent and effective its role in challenging and supporting senior management controls, which enable risk to be assessed and appropriately through this transitional phase.
The Board reviews the Groups business model and strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the During the year, the Board strengthened the corporate necessary financial and human resources are in place to governance structures around risk management with the achieve these objectives, to sustain them over the long-term introduction of a senior management Risk Committee in and to review management performance in their delivery.
Further information on the Risk Committee and its role, responsibilities and activities in 2016 can be The Board sets the tone of the Companys values and ethical found on page 54. standards and manages the business in a manner to meet its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board is responsible for reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction of the Group.
22 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Directors who held office during 2016 were as follows: Director Role Details Debbie Hewitt Chairman Appointed Chairman May 2016, non-executive Director from May 2015 Andy McCue Chief Executive Officer Appointed September 2016 Barry Nightingale Chief Financial Officer Appointed June 2016 Simon Cloke Senior independent Director Appointed March 2010, previously Chairman of the Audit Committee Sally Cowdry Non-executive Director Appointed March 2014 Mike Tye Non-executive Director and Appointed April 2016 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Graham Clemett Non-executive Director and Appointed June 2016 Chairman of the Audit Committee Stephen Critoph Chief Financial Officer Resigned April 2016 Alan Jackson Chairman Resigned May 2016 Tony Hughes Senior independent Director and Resigned May 2016 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Danny Breithaupt Chief Executive Officer Resigned August 2016 The senior independent non-executive Director, Simon Cloke, The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors is available to liaise with shareholders who have concerns to be independent, including the Chairman of the Board, that they feel have not been addressed through the normal as set out in the Code.
Each Director demonstrates the skills channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief and experience the Board requires for the success of the Financial Officer.
Biographies of the current Directors are set out on pages 28 and 29.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its consideration which includes items such as: Division of responsibilities the approval of the annual budget and business plan: approval Andy McCue, Chief Executive Officer, together with the senior of the Groups interim and year-end reports: review and management team, is responsible for the day-to-day running approval of significant capital expenditure: significant of the Group and regularly provide reports on performance disposals of assets: and acquisitions or disposals of to the Board.
The Board have reviewed this schedule during the year and added specific matters where they feel it is critical to Non-executive Directors maintain an ongoing dialogue with the ongoing success of the business, for example an annual the executive Directors which includes constructive challenge review of pricing.
of performance and the Groups strategy.
The non-executive Directors are provided with insightful and appropriate information to allow them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive management of the Group.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 23 continued Meetings and attendance A summary of each Directors attendance at meetings that they were eligible to attend of the Board and its Committees during 2016 is shown below.
Unless otherwise indicated, all Directors held office throughout the year: Committee appointments Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Debbie Hewitt Nom Rem 11 11 1 1 6 6 5 5 1 Andy McCue n a 2 2 n a n a n a 2 Barry Nightingale n a 6 6 n a n a n a Simon Cloke Audit Nom 11 11 3 3 7 7 n a 3 Sally Cowdry Nom Rem 10 11 1 1 6 7 4 5 4 Mike Tye Audit Nom Rem 9 9 2 2 4 4 3 3 5 Graham Clemett Audit Nom Rem 6 6 2 2 3 3 3 3 1 Appointed Chief Executive Officer in September 2016.
2 Appointed Chief Financial Officer in June 2016.
3 Sally Cowdry missed one Board, one Remuneration Committee and one Nomination Committee meeting which were held on the same day due to the short notice on which they were called.
4 Mike Tye was appointed independent non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in April 2016.
5 Graham Clemett was appointed independent non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in June 2016.
Comprehensive Board papers are provided to the Directors Conflicts of interest and independence prior to Board meetings and updates on progress towards The Board reviews potential conflicts of interest and financial KPIs are provided on a weekly basis.
The nonindependence at each meeting as a standing item.
Directors executive Directors have the opportunity to meet without the have continuing obligations to update the Board on any executive Directors to examine, among other matters, targets changes to these conflicts or matters which may impinge set and performance achieved by management.
Independent advice In 2016 Debbie Hewitt sought to invest in a small business All Directors have access to the advice and services of the venture, Corazon, led by an entrepreneur starting up a Company Secretary and it has been agreed that in the Mexican counter service restaurant based in London.
Before furtherance of their duties, Directors are entitled to take investing, Debbie Hewitt declared the potential conflict to the independent professional advice if necessary, at the expense Board and this was noted and the ability for her to invest if she of the Company.
desired was approved on the basis that the scale, proposition and the nature of her involvement was not considered a conflict.
In 2016 Mike Tye sought to become the Chairman of Moto Motorway Services.
Before accepting the role, Mike Tye declared the potential conflict to the Board and this was noted and his eligibility to accept the role was approved on the basis that the role was not considered a conflict with the current strategy of the Company.
Directors and Officers liability D&O insurance The Company maintain D&O insurance to cover the cost of defending civil proceedings brought against them in their capacity as a Director or Officer of the Company including those who served as Directors or Officers during 2016.
24 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Director induction Effectiveness Andy McCue, Barry Nightingale, Graham Clemett and Mike Board composition Tye joined the Board in 2016 and were provided with an As required by the Code at least 50% of the Board, excluding induction on appointment, which included visits to the Groups the Chairman, are independent non-executive Directors: the operations and meetings with operational and executive Board is comprised of two executive Directors, four management.
Each Directors induction is tailored to their independent non-executive Directors and the non-executive experience and background with the aim of enhancing their Chairman, in compliance with the Code.
The Board has understanding of the Groups business, its brands, employees debated and considers that all of the non-executive Directors, and processes and the Board role in setting the tone of the including the Chairman, are independent.
The principle of Board diversity is strongly supported by the Director training and development Board.
It is the Boards policy that appointments to the Board The Company acknowledges the importance of developing will always be based on merit so that the Board has the right the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist in individuals in place, recognising that diversity of thought, this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant approach and experience is seen as an important courses and seminars to acquire additional skills and consideration as part of the selective criteria used to assess experience to enhance their contribution to the ongoing candidates to achieve a balanced Board.
There are also sessions on governance, which all Directors attend.
The table below sets out the current position of the Company on a gender basis: Board effectiveness review The performance of the Board and its committees are Female Male appraised annually and in 2016, it was scheduled for an Main Board 2 29% 5 71% independent review to be completed.
However, due to the 1 Executive Committee 4 33% 8 67% number of Director changes in the year, it was agreed that an independent committee evaluation would be deferred until Direct reports to Executive the Board has had time to form and establish norms and Committee 25 36% 44 64% that instead an internal one would be completed for the year TRG employees at December 2016 7,897 50% 7,812 50% ending 1 January 2017.
The following process was adopted: Details of the Directors respective experience is set out Process in their biographical profiles on pages 28 and 29.
The Board The Board evaluation was led by the Chairman through considers that each Director is able to allocate sufficient time individual Director feedback questionnaires on all aspects to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
of the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
The questionnaires were completed by all Directors and sent to Annual re-election the Chairman.
All Directors, except the Chairman, completed In accordance with the Code the Directors appointed in 2016 a specific questionnaire on the Chairman and these were sent are subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General to the senior independent Director.
Meeting AGM in May 2017 and all others are subject to re-election annually.
Board committees The Board is supported by three committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration.
In 2016 the terms of reference of these committees were reviewed and updated, copies are available at www.
Full reports for each of the committees are set out on pages 30 to 51.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 25 Corporate Governance continued Results Accountability The evaluation identified changes which would improve the Risk management working of the Board, including: The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring the Board succession and the need to manage non-executive business risks are effectively managed.
The Board has Director succession over the coming year, including the delegated regular review of the risk management procedures enhancement of the Board with additional industry and to the Audit Committee and collectively reviews the overall risk multi-site consumer marketing skills.
environment on an annual basis.
The day-to-day management of business risks are the responsibility of the senior Changes to the organisation of the Company Secretarial management team together with the senior management Risk function.
Committee, which was established in October 2016.
For the Enhancement to the Board management information pack, report of the Risk Committee see page 54. to more closely align with the strategy, customer and operational metrics of the business.
Internal controls The Group has a system of internal controls which aim to Individual Director appraisals process support the delivery of strategy by managing the risk of failing This has been reviewed as part of the 2016 refresh of the to achieve business objectives and the protection of assets.
Board and internal performance evaluations of members of As such the Group can only provide reasonable and not the Board are carried out by the following individuals: absolute assurance.
Director being appraised Appraiser The Group insures against risks, but certain risks remain difficult to insure, due to the breadth and cost of cover.
In Chairman Reviewed by the non-executive some cases, external insurance is not available at all, or not Directors excluding the Chairman and at an economical price.
The Group regularly reviews both the feedback facilitated by the senior type and amount of external insurance that it buys and in independent non-executive Director.
2016 retendered the Groups insurance policies.
There were Chief Executive Reviewed by all of the non-executive no meaningful changes to the policy undertaken in 2016.
Officer Directors and Chief Financial Officer and feedback facilitated by the Chairman.
Risk map Chief Financial Reviewed by all of the non-executive The Board annually review the Groups risk map, which Officer Directors and feedback facilitated by the includes the principal risks and mitigation processes as set Chief Executive Officer and Chairman.
Non-executive Reviewed by the executive Directors Directors and by their non-executive Director Remuneration peers and feedback collated and given For information on remuneration see the Remuneration by the Chairman.
Committee report on pages 37 to 51.
26 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Substantial shareholdings Relations with shareholders As at 14 February 2017, the Company had been notified of the Share capital structure following interests of 3% or more in the issued share capital The Companys issued share capital at 1 January 2017 of the Company under the UK Disclosure and Transparency 1 consisted of 201,063,045 ordinary shares of 28 8 pence each.
Rules: There are no special control rights or restrictions on share transfer or special rights pertaining to any of the shares in Number % of issue of shares share capital issue and the Company does not have preference shares.
During the year 112,373 new shares were issued under the FMR LLC 17,864,887 8.89 companys all employee Save As You Earn scheme.
Schroders Investment 12,792,484 6.36 Management Ltd As far as is reasonably known to management, the Company Royal London Asset Management 12,533,814 6.23 is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another company or by any government.
Arberforth Partners LLP 12,209,472 6.07 M&G Investment Management Ltd 11,921,242 5.93 Board engagement with shareholders Columbia Threadneedle 9,680,355 4.81 Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
Investments There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors including Rathbones 7,928,909 3.94 presentations after the Companys year-end and interim results announcements.
A programme of meetings take place Vanguard Group 7,702,693 3.83 throughout the year with major institutional shareholders and BlackRock Inc 6,994,854 3.48 private shareholders have the opportunity to meet the Board face-to-face and ask questions at the AGM.
Directors shareholdings For details of Directors shareholdings, remuneration and In addition to the Boards regular engagement with interests in the Companys shares and options, together with shareholders in 2016, the newly appointed Chairman information on service contracts, see pages 37 to 51 of the consulted with major shareholders on the appointment of Directors remuneration report.
key executives and the Remuneration Committee wrote to substantial shareholders in October 2016 to arrange meetings Annual General Meeting to discuss the future remuneration policy.
The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group business and provides a useful forum for Board shareholder updates one-to-one communication with private shareholders.
At the Feedback from major institutional shareholders is provided AGM shareholders receive presentations on the Companys to the Board on a regular basis and, where appropriate, performance and may ask questions of the Board.
The the Board takes steps to address their concerns and Chairman seeks to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, recommendations.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at the meeting to answer questions and for all Directors Re-engaging with gone away shareholders to attend.
We have engaged ProSearch to locate shareholders with unclaimed dividends.
To date, the programme has been The 2017 AGM will be held at 10am on Friday 26 May 2017 at successful at reunifying both lost shares and unclaimed the offices of Instinctif Partners, 65 Gresham Street, London, dividends.
The notice convening this meeting has been sent to shareholders at the same time as publication of this Annual Report and Accounts and is available at www.
By order of the Board Debbie Hewitt MBE Chairman 8 March 2017 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 27
