Our business model A simple business model to deliver superior risk adjusted returns What we need What we do Customer relationships Knowledge of GPs evolving requirements through our involvement in the design and management of medical centres gives us a unique insight into their property needs.
Assets Develop Our bespoke medical centres are constructed in locations that are crucial to the local health economy and to the highest sustainability standards.
People Our small team of 34 people coversthekey skills of real estate ownership and includes asset and property management, development, investment, marketing and financing.
Invest Partners We maintain strategic partnerships with the leading architectural practice inthe sector and a number of specialist healthcare developers to complement our in-house expertise.
Capital The support of our shareholders, banking partners and bondholders is crucial to sustaining our investment in the UKs health infrastructure.
Manage Our strategic priorities Focus Read more on p20 Expertise Read more on p22 Maintaining a strategic focus on a highly Responding to the NHS agenda attractive market 12 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements We develop, invest and manage a portfolio of primary care medical centres across the UK We aim to generate attractive financial and social returns for our shareholders and wider stakeholders by investing in high quality, sustainable medical centres that provide crucial infrastructure for theirlocal health economy Develop The value Our team of development managers work with our design and development partners to provide bespoke, wecreate community-led property solutions for each of our healthcare partners.
Wemonitor and manage the Key beneficiaries of our value creation: process from design through todelivery of the completed building.
GP customers Our purpose built medical centres provide the essential infrastructure to allow GPs to provide a broader range of healthcare services in the community.
Communities Invest 29,520 plus employee time donated to As a long-term investor we are committed to any new our local charity partners.
Our medical centres development being constructed to the highest possible provide a crucial community resource to aid standards and to its ongoing efficient operation and improved health outcomes in their locations.
We support the evolving requirements oftheGPs through lease renewals, property extensions Employees or co-locating appropriate partners such as pharmacies.
Over 2.6 million paid to our employees.
Inaddition Assura actively promotes training anddevelopment for our staff.
Shareholders 27.2 million paid as dividends to shareholders during the year.
Manage Dividends per share of 2.05 pence.
Earnings per share of 2.2 pence.
Our team of property surveyors manage the medical centres and their efficient operation through frequent liaison with our tenants.
This integrated approach enables Suppliers us to capture moredevelopment and other added value Over 47.9 million paid to suppliers of opportunities.
Ourinternally managed structure provides materials and services.
Our construction a highly scalable model that means as we grow the and management contracts are often with benefits of scale accrue to shareholders and help drive localsuppliers to promote sustainability.
Government Over 5.5 million paid in taxes to UK Government.
Culture Read more on p24 Effectiveness Read more on p26 Investing in our people Leveraging our teams skills to maximum advantage www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 13
