Key performance indicators Our vision is to be the UKs best developer and owner-manager of primary care property Strategic priority KPI and benchmark Explanation Performance Rental growth is the weighted average annualised uplift We have delivered rental growth of 1.2% which is ahead Rental growth IPD five-year inrent reviews settled in the year.
ofCPI inflation over the period.
from rent reviews Total Return Total Property Return measures the overall return The rate of growth has been slowing, though with generated by our properties on a debt free basis.
It is construction cost inflation returning we believe 1.2% 8.8% Focus calculated as the net rental income generated by the medium-term prospects willrecover.
2015: 1.3% IPD: 6.9% portfolio plus the change in our market values, divided Maintaining a strategic focus on a Over the last five years, our Total Return of 8.8% per annum byopening property assets plus additions.
highly attractivemarket Total Property Return We measure our performance against the All Healthcare This has been achieved with low volatility of returns and is Benchmark as calculated by IPD.
ahead of ourestimated cost of equity.
Read more on p20 8.9% We have continued to deliver a Total Property Return 2015: 7.8% inexcess of our net initial yield from delivering capital growth from our investment portfolio.
The weighted average unexpired lease term WAULT Our lease length of 14.0 years provides a high level Lease length Complete developments provides the average period until the first available break ofincomecertainty to underpin investor returns.
in our underlying property leases calculated on the basis 14.0 years 16.4m 4 sites An effective NHS backing for 87% of our income provides of the weighted average of the underlying rent.
low default risk at a premium totheequivalent gilt rates.
2015: 14.4 years 2015: 22.8m 4 sites Complete developments are the number and valuation Expertise The value of completed schemes has decreased during oncompletion of completed developments during theyear to16.4million.
This reflects the reduced level Responding to the NHSagenda theyear.
% of tenant covenant Developments Tenant covenant is the proportion of our rent roll that Read more on p22 The slowdown in development activity across the sector NHS GP on site ispaid directly by GPs or NHSbodies.
has reduced the number of schemes on site.
We currently Developments on site are the number and estimated have a pipeline in excess of 11 schemes and 41 million.
87% 13.5m 2 sites valuation on completion of developments currently commenced at the year end.
2015: 87% 2015: 22.2m 5 sites BREEAM is the worlds foremost environmental One of our developments achieved a rating of Excellent BREEAM rating achieved on developments assessmentmethod andratings for buildings, and sets inthecurrent year with the remaining three achieving Very Good or better thestandard forbest practice insustainable building design, a VeryGood rating.
It has become one of the The average EPC rating was a B, which is our target 100% mostcomprehensive and widely recognised measures for new developments.
2015: 100% Investing in our people An Energy Performance Certificate EPC is an assessment based on the construction and type of Average EPC rating Read more on p24 property and relevant fittings such as heating systems, insulation or double glazing.
B 2015: B Total Accounting Return is the movement on EPRA Our Total Accounting Return has fallen slightly in the year Total Accounting Return Total Shareholder Return NAVfor the year plus the dividends paid, divided by reflecting the one-off costs of equity issuance and debt theopening EPRA NAV for the year.
7.2% 11.4 % TSR has fallen in the year reflecting the movement in the Effectiveness TSR is the movement in the share price for the period 2015: 7.7% 2015: 49.9% ratio of the share price to EPRA NAV.
At 31 March 2016 plus the dividends paid, divided by the opening share ourpremium to EPRA NAV was 15% 2015: 38.5%.
Leveraging our teamsskills to price for the year.
The integration of the 56 property additions has been maximumadvantage EPRA Cost Ratio Underlying profit per share EPRA Cost Ratio is the total administrative costs for achieved efficiently, which has contributed to a reduction theyear divided by gross rental income.
Read more on p26 16.5% 2.2p Underlying profit per share is underlying profit divided Underlying profit per share has increased to 2.2 pence by the average number of shares in issue.
2015: 17.7% 2015: 2.1p pershare despite a 60% increase in our issued shares.
28 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements In order to be the best, we need to value NAV.
Lastly, we consider Total Thisoverriding objective is reflected in the demonstrate that we can consistently Shareholder Return TSR as measured by long-term management incentive scheme, outperform over time.
In order to measure the stock market, which reflects the value the Value Creation Plan VCP, which ourselves against this objective we have a ofdividends paid and the relative movement provides incentives to management based wide range of key performance indicators inour share price over the period.
on the TSR delivered to investors over KPIs.
These can be distilled into three key afive-year time horizon.
This is explained in These measures are complementary and areas.
Firstly, TotalProperty Return, which more detail in the Remuneration Committee should build on each other although the measures our success in choosing theright report on pages 58 to 85. share price movement is also affected by investments and managing these over time.
other external factors outside of our control.
In order to achieve these objectives we have Secondly, Total Accounting Return, which By managing the Property Return and four strategic priorities and how we monitor measures the returns we have delivered Accounting Return over the medium term ourselves against them is outlined below: toour shareholders in the form of dividends we should be able todeliver a superior TSR paid and ourgrowth innet asset to our investors.
Strategic priority KPI and benchmark Explanation Performance Rental growth is the weighted average annualised uplift We have delivered rental growth of 1.2% which is ahead Rental growth IPD five-year inrent reviews settled in the year.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 29
