Corporate Governance The Board considers that Jenefer Statement of compliance July 2015 AGM key highlights Greenwood and David Richardson All resolutions passed.
withthe UK Corporate areindependent having regard to Governance Code Full Director attendance.
theircharacter and judgement and In accordance with the Listing Rules 751 million to 756 million votes cast thefact that there are no relationships oftheUK Listing Authority, the Company foreach resolution.
orcircumstances which could confirms that throughout the year ended All Directors retired and were affecttheirjudgement.
31 March 2016 and as at the date of this re-elected to the Board.
Annual Report it was compliant with all the Shareholder relations Remuneration report resolution passed relevant provisions as set out in theUK with 99.45% of votes cast in favour.
The Board welcomes open Corporate Governance Code published communication with its shareholders inSeptember 2014 the Code save as andworks with its stockbrokers referred to in the Chairmans Statement LiberumCapital and Stifel to ensure that onpage 48 where MrLaffin became an appropriate level of communication Executive Chairman during Mr Roberts ismaintained.
The dialogue with period of leave due toillness.
shareholders is facilitated by a series ofinvestor relations mechanisms, Role of the Board including regular meetings between senior The Company has an effective Board members of the Companys executive which is collectively responsible for the management with institutional investors long-term success of the Company by and sales teams and industry sector directing and supervising the activity of analysts.
Feedback from these meetings the Company.
The Board has approved a isregularly relayed to the Boardin order schedule of matters reserved for decision toensure that all Board members, and by the Board.
This includes all corporate Non-Executive Directors in particular, acquisitions or corporate disposals, debt develop an understanding ofthe views raising above 50 million, the Remuneration ofmajor shareholders.
Thisprocess Policy, the annual budget approval and augments the regular dissemination of amendments to delegated authorities.
annual reports and othermarket updates.
The Board meets at least six times per year Copies of these announcements and any for scheduled meetings.
It also meets as accompanying presentational materials required to consider any important or are available onthe Companys website urgent business.
The Directors acknowledge their The Board responds to ad hoc requests responsibility for preparing the Annual for information from shareholders and Report and Accounts and consider that allshareholders have access to the the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is Board and senior management, with fair, balanced and understandable and anopportunity to raise questions, at the provides shareholders with the necessary AGM and other shareholder meetings.
information to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
52 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements BOARD Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Read more on p54 Read more on p57 Read more on p58 To assist in its Corporate Governance On appointment, new Directors receive Each Board member is permitted to responsibilities, the Board has established afull briefing on the role, duties and takeprofessional advice on any matter standing Committees.
All Non-Executive responsibilities of a Director of a listed which relates to their position, role and Directors and the Chairman served on all company, and on the Company and its responsibilities as a Director at the cost Committees.
This was appropriate given Board.
An induction pack with important of the Company and have access to the the relatively small size of the Board.
Training needs advice and services of the Company Committee follows Terms of Reference are reviewed annually as part of the Secretary who advises the Board on which are reviewed annually and are Board evaluation.
available on the Companys website.
Simon Laffin stepped down from theAuditCommittee on becoming Executive Chairman.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 53
