Expertise Responding to the NHS agenda 22 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 w ww ww w.. a as ss sur ura apl plc c.. c com om Strategic report Governance Financial statements Expertise It is widely acknowledged that sustainable development must address climate change issues and reduce the amount ofcarbon produced in construction PAUL WARWICK DEVELOPMENT MANAGER TheEnergy Performance of Buildings meet the changing demands of primary The concept Directive set a target for all newly built healthcare and offering users the ability As the leading primary care property premises toachievenearly zero carbon to control and maintain environmental developer in the healthcare sector, status by 2020and although the deadline comfort within their building.
Assura has been working to develop is subject to fluctuation it is inevitable that the concept of zero energy healthcare such a target must be achieved in the premises.
Bringing together existing Our implementation medium term.
As a responsible developer sustainable design practices and Having demonstrated the feasibility Assura aims to be proactive in exceeding construction techniques, the concept of the concept we have taken this this target and in doing so provide added aims to deliver premises with negligible a step further and have now begun valueto our tenants and shareholders.
energy use, aiming to reduce running toincorporate these principles into costs for our tenants.
newschemes in our development What we have done so far programme.
NHS sign off is awaited The team has set about designing for the first of these schemes, which Why it is needed exemplar healthcare premises with a is expected to be on site in July 2016.
It is widely acknowledged that sustainable commitment to sustainability with the development must addressclimate aimof creating bespoke premises that change issues and reduce the amount offer minimal running costs, flexibility to ofcarbon produced in construction.
Ardudwy Health Centre, Harlech Assuras most sustainable property to date with an EPC rating of A www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 23
