Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report Additional attendees Audit Committee asappropriate Deloitte LLP members PwC LLP Savills LLP and Jones Lang LaSalle David Richardson Chairman Graham Roberts Chief Executive 1 Simon Laffin Jonathan Murphy Finance Director Paul Carroll Financial Controller Jenefer Greenwood David Purcell Group Finance Manager Andrew Darke Property Director Number of meetings in the year: five Orla Ball Company Secretary 1.
Stepped down on becoming Executive Chairman Responsibilities Key activities of theCommittee Received a recommendation from the Financial statements Financial statements Property Director on the appointment andreports andreports of the firms to carry out the valuation To monitor the integrity of the half Reviewed the Annual Report in2016 following a review.
yearand annual financial statements andfinancial statements and before submission to the Board, halfyearfinancial report and reviewing significant financial reporting maderecommendations to the Review of risk management matters and judgements focusing Boardregarding the approval and internal controls particularly on matters of material ofthesedocuments.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the financial impact.
Companys internal controls and risk Prospectus and working management processes and the To review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
disclosures made inthe Annual Report.
capitalreports Reviewed the prospectus published Received the minutes from the Risk To conduct an annual review of during the year with particular theneed to establish an internal Committee and reviewed the principal emphasis on reviewing the work risks derived from the risk register auditfunction.
undertaken by PwC to review the along with any movement in those To discuss the issues arising from assessment of the Board that the risksin the year.
Groups working capital was sufficient Reviewed the appropriateness of the To monitor and review annually the to support the business at the date accounting policies and the design auditors independence, objectivity ofthe prospectus.
andoperation of the internal controls.
To develop and implement the policy Review of external audit Others for provision of non-audit services by Reviewed, considered and agreed the Monitored compliance with the external auditor.
scope and fees for the audit work to theREITrules.
To make recommendations to the beundertaken by the external auditor.
Reviewed the effectiveness Board in relation to the selection Reviewed the effectiveness, oftheCommittee.
process for the appointment of the performance and fees of the Reviewed the requirement for external auditor.
Reviewed the viability statement Review of external valuers andsupporting evidence.
Received presentations from both valuers and raised queries on these.
Reviewed the approved treasury counterparties.
Reviewed the effectiveness, performance and fees of the externalvaluers.
54 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements DEAR SHAREHOLDER Significant financial As Chairman of the Audit Committee, reportingmatters Ihave pleasure in setting out below the Valuation of investment properties formal report on its activities for the year including those under construction ended 31 March 2016. valuations and yields are discussed with management and benchmarked against The Company is mindful of the comparable portfolios.
The two external UKCorporate Governance Codes valuers present to and are challenged by newrequirements inrelation to risk and the Committee on their valuations.
themonitoring of internal control systems.
Validity of the going concern basis and During 2015 the Committee and the Board the availability of finance going forward reviewed the Groups risk management the Committee considers the financing framework and approved the establishment requirements of the Group in the context of and Terms ofReference for a new of committed facilities and evaluates RiskCommittee reporting to the Audit managements assessment of going Committee.
Having monitored the Groups concern and the assumptions made.
risk management and internal control The external auditor also reports to systems, the Committee has not identified theCommittee following its review.
any significant failings or weakness in these Accounting for the corporate property control systems during the year.
acquisitions completed during the year the Group made four property You will also note from the report that acquisitions through corporate vehicles theCompany engaged PwC during the during the year and each one has been year to undertake the role of reporting categorised as a property acquisition as accountant in association with the they involved acquiring income producing prospectus published during the property assets without associated yearinaccordance with UK Listing employees or ancillary income streams.
This accounting treatment and their inclusion in the Groups property portfolio The Committee performs a detailed valuation is key to an understanding of reviewof the content and tone of the thefinancial statements for the year.
We Annual Report and half year results and discussed the accounting treatments has satisfied itself that there are robust withDeloitte LLP, both before and after controls over the accuracy and consistency itsaudit work, and the valuations with of the information presented.
Accordingly Messrs Jones Lang LaSalle and Savills the Committee has advised the Board that LLP at the conclusion of their work.
We the Annual Report taken as a whole is satisfied ourselves that all aspects were fair, balanced and understandable and properly treated.
provides the information necessary for Viability statement the Committee theshareholders to assess the Companys considered the proposed draft Viability position and performance, business model Statement and the supporting analysis and strategy.
produced by management and approved the statement for inclusion in the 2016 report.
The statement appears on page 32. www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 55 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report continued We are satisfied that there were no matters The FRCs Audit Quality Review Team arising from each of the above that we wish reviewed Deloittes audit of the 2015 to draw to the attention of the shareholders.
financial statements as part of their annualinspection of audit firms.
Their review focused on identifying areas for Internal controls improvements rather than highlighting The Groups internal control systems areas performed to or above the expected include a detailed authorisation process, level.
The Committee received a full copy formal documentation of all transactions, of the findings ofthe Audit Quality Review arobust system of financial planning Team and discussed these with Deloitte.
including cash flow forecasting and Some matters were identified as requiring scenario testing and a robust appraisal improvement and we have agreed an process for all property investments.
action plan with Deloitte to ensure the matters identified by the AQR have been Internal audit addressed in the audit of the Companys The Audit Committee is satisfied that 31 March 2016 financial statements.
The thecurrent level of control and risk Audit Committee is also satisfied that there management within the business is nothing within the report which might adequately meets the Groups current have a bearing on the audit appointment.
The Committee considers that theadditional cost of an internal audit Deloitte was appointed following a department is not currently justified.
competitive tender in March 2012 and pursuant to the Competition and Markets Audit non-audit fees payable Authority Order, the latest date by which toexternal auditor the Company is required to tender and The external auditor did not carry out any appoint an external auditor is for the non-audit services this year.
The fees paid financial year beginning 1 April 2022. to the external auditor are disclosed in Wewill make a statement on future audit Note4 a to the audited accounts.
plans in the Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
Effectiveness of external auditprocess DAVID RICHARDSON CHAIRMAN OF THE The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit AUDIT COMMITTEE process, initially reviewing and challenging the audit planning memorandum prepared by Deloitte and then monitoring fulfilment of this plan.
The Committee received regular feedback from management on the service and support provided by Deloitte and concluded that the external audit was carried out efficiently and effectively with objective, independent challenge.
Accordingly the Committee recommends Deloittes re-appointment atthe 2016 AGM.
56 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
