Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nominations Committee Report Attendees Nominations Orla Ball Company Secretary Committee members Simon Laffin Chairman David Richardson Jenefer Greenwood Graham Roberts Number of meetings in the year: two Responsibilities Key activities of theCommittee The Terms of Reference, which are Board and Committee changes Policies reviewed annually and are available to There have been no appointments to the The Board believes that a diverse view on the Company website, require Board or Board Committees during theyear.
workforce and management team improve the Committee to meet at least once the culture of the organisation and add peryear.
value to the business as awhole.
Board performance evaluation The Board has reviewed its performance, Key issues The Board targeted having at least 20% and the performance of its Committees Re-election of all Directors at the female representation which was and individual Directors based on an July2015 AGM.
achieved in 2012. internal evaluation carried out by the Chairman in November 2015 where Board Review of succession planning.
andExecutive Board members and the The Committee will continue to consider Review of Board composition, gender and wider aspects of diversity Company Secretary completed a detailed Committee composition and questionnaire.
The Board concluded such as experience, nationality, disability Committee Chairmanship.
and age when recommending any future thatits access to relevant information is Consideration of training needs good, discussions are carried out in an Board appointments.
will always be made on merit.
appropriate manner, the strategy and goals Board performance evaluation.
of the Company are clear and the Board is appraised promptly and fully of investor Succession planning Considered and confirmed that views.
The Board continues to have an theNon-Executive Directors Succession planning was a focus of the appropriate mix of skills and experience Committee during 2015 and a formal wereindependent.
and discussions around the boardroom report on succession plans for the Board, table are constructive and challenging.
Executive Directors and senior members The Nominations Committee also met in of staff was prepared and reviewed.
the absence of the Chairman to appraise Consideration was given to short-term theChairmans performance.
There were cover as well as development of talent nomajor changes adopted in the way within the business to fill more senior theBoard operates.
The Board also rolesover the medium and long term, concluded that no further appointments acknowledging that given the sizeof were necessary at this time.
theworkforce there will not be successors for every senior role.
The Committee will continue to monitor thisarea in 2016.
Commitments of the Chairman Simon Laffin is also Non-Executive Chairman of Flybe Group plc and NonSIMON LAFFIN Executive Director atWatkins Jones plc.
Mr CHAIRMAN OF THE Laffin manages his time effectively in order NOMINATIONSCOMMITTEE to allocate sufficient time to each of his roles.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 57
