Board of Directors SIMON LAFFIN GRAHAM ROBERTS JONATHAN MURPHY EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE FINANCE DIRECTOR Simon Laffin is the Chairman of Assura.
Graham Roberts is Chief Executive of Jonathan Murphy is the Finance Director Simon is also Non-Executive Chairman Assura.
Graham was Finance Director of Assura.
Jonathan was previously ofFlybe Group plc and a Non-Executive atThe British Land Company PLC from Finance Director of the fund management Director of Watkin Jones plc.
Previously 2002 to 2011, and before that was business of Brooks Macdonald Group he served as Chairman of Hozelock SeniorPartner for real estate at Arthur plc, having joined as a result of the Group and a Non-Executive Director of Andersen, where he also led the public acquisition of Braemar Group plc in 2010, Quintain Estates and Development plc, sector assurance practice, which where he was Finance Director for four Mitchells & Butlers plc, Aegis Group plc included clients such as NHS Estates years.
Jonathan was previously Managing and Northern Rock plc as part of the anda number of NHS trusts.
Director for the property management rescue team.
His early career was at Binder Hamlyn.
Between 1995 and 2004 he was Group He is currently a Non-Executive Director His earlier career included commercial Chief Financial Officer of UK grocery atBalfour Beatty plc and is Chairman and strategic roles at Spirit Group retailer Safeway plc which he joined in ofits Audit Committee.
Jonathan qualified 1990 and was latterly also responsible asaChartered Accountant with for property.
Prior to that, he held a , holding Graham is currently taking a leave variety of finance and management roles ofabsence due to illness.
management roles in both the UK and in Mars Confectionery, Rank Xerox and Asia.
Jonathan holds an MBA from IESE, BP.
the leading European Business School inBarcelona.
Appointed Appointed Appointed August 2011 March 2012 January 2013 Board meetings and attendance Board meetings and attendance Board meetings and attendance Board meeting 11 11 Board meeting 10 11 Board meeting 11 11 Audit Committee 5 5 Nominations Committee 2 2 Remuneration Committee 5 5 Independent Nominations Committee Chair 2 2 Independent Not applicable Not applicable Independent Not applicable 50 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements JENEFER GREENWOOD DAVID RICHARDSON NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SENIOR INDEPENDENT Jenefer Greenwood is a Chartered DIRECTOR Surveyor who started her career David is currently Chairman of BBGI atHillierParker in 1978, becoming SICAV SA and a Board member of The Executive Director and Head of Retail Edrington Group.
Previously he spent 22 onmerger with CBRE.
Jenefer worked years at Whitbread Plc where he was the for Grosvenor Estate from 2003 Strategic Planning Director for eight years until2012.
and the Finance Director for fouryears.
Jenefer sits on fund supervisory At Whitbread he played a pivotal role boardsof INTERNOS Global Investors intransforming the Group from a brewing and was appointed to the Board of DCH and pubs company into a market leader Group in August 2014 and chairs the in hotels, restaurants and leisure clubs.
Following this he has held a number ofNon-Executive roles in FTSE listed She has previously served on the Board companies including Serco Group plc, of The Crown Estate and chaired its Forth Ports plc now called Forth Ports Remuneration Committee.
She has held Ltd, Tomkins plc now called Gates positions as Chair of the National Skills Worldwide Limited, Dairy Crest plc Academy for Retail and President of the andDe Vere Group plc.
He is a British Council of Shopping Centres.
Appointed Appointed May 2012 January 2012 Board meetings and attendance Board meetings and attendance Board meeting 11 11 Board meeting 11 11 Audit Committee 5 5 Audit Committee Chair 5 5 Remuneration Committee Chair 5 5 Remuneration Committee 5 5 Nominations Committee 2 2 Nominations Committee 2 2 Independent Independent Yes Yes www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 51
