Charities In April Assura commenced its support of the Warrington Wolves Charitable Foundation and the Salford Red Devils Foundation.
Warrington Wolves and Salford Red Devils Foundation The Warrington Wolves Charitable Foundation is the community arm of the Rugby League club.
By using the power Sky Sports presented a Q&A session To kick off the support of these of sport it is able to engage and change twocharities the Assura Challenge with several personalities from the world lives.
The Foundation delivers sports, of Rugby League and Rugby Union.
This divided Assuras staff lifestyle, education, training, arts and members into two teams, half supporting inclusion activities.
Salford Red Devils Warrington and the other half Salford, Finally, two members of staff ran the Foundation is a registered charity with withthe aim to raise the most amount Warrington half marathon in September aremit to deliver sport, health and ofmoney possible.
Several events were for the foundations.
In total 13,300 was education-based activities for the benefit organised during the year by Assura in a raised during 2015 16 for the charities of all, regardless of background and bid to raise money.
The first of these was with more events planned for 2016 17. ability, across Greater Manchester and the Touch Rugby event in July.
Based at the AJ Bell Stadium, brought together touch rugby teams from For further information, please Salford Red Devils Foundation uses the go to www.
com Assuras corporate advisors in a fiercely vehicle of professional sport to engage www.
The second event thousands of people each year in washeld in September when Assura community clubs, classrooms, school organised a rugby themed charity lunch playing fields and businesses through in Manchester on the eve of the Rugby adelivery team of teachers, healthcare Union World Cup.
Angela Powers from professionals and sports coaches.
46 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Assura Challenge TouchRugby event Held at Media CitySalford inJuly2015 Brainwave Our charities for 2016 17 Brainwave is a charity that exists During the forthcoming year all tohelp children with disabilities and ofourchosen charities will be developmental delay achieve their local.
We will continue to support fullpotential.
The children they theWarrington Wolves Charitable workwith have a range ofconditions Foundation and Salford Red Devils including autism, brain injuries Foundation and inaddition the suchas cerebral palsy and genetic Warrington Hospital branch of conditions such as Downs syndrome.
Lifeafter Loss which was chosen The centre we are supporting byour staff to be our next charity.
Life After Loss is a charity which supports Thanks to its supporters and dedicated those affected by pregnancy or infant loss.
therapy teams, Brainwave now impacts onthe lives of over 600 children with The organisation was founded in 2006.
Brainwaves growth support will fund much needed equipment andregional outreach have been driven such as a fetal cardiotocography monitor.
bythe commitment to bring measurable improvements to the lives of children with For further information, please go to www.
uk physical, sensory, learning, cognitive and behavioural difficulties.
Key to ongoing success of the three centres is the ability forthe charity to raisefunds.
Aswell as providing a financial donation, Assura has supported several ofBrainwaves eventsduring the last 12months.
For further information, please go to www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 47 Chairmans introduction to governance The Board has an effective, wellbalanced structure, which draws on a wealth and variety of experience review, and this was addressed this year to the satisfaction of Directors.
I consider that all the Directors continue to devote SIMON LAFFIN sufficient time to discharging their duties EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN to a high standard and remain committed to their roles.
In March 2016, our Chief Executive, Graham Roberts, was given a leave of absence as he received treatment for cancer.
I therefore took on temporarily therole of Executive Chairman, pending aresolution of Grahams health.
The Board then reviewed and approved the relevant roles of the executives and myself in order that responsibilities remained clear and unambiguous, with appropriate checks andbalances.
In particular, we instituted aformal fortnightly Executive Board meeting, consisting of our Finance Director Jonathan Murphy, Property Director Andrew Darke, and chaired by me, withour Company Secretary Orla Ball providing legal counsel and minutes.
This Executive Board issues its minutes and contributing.
I collated the results and DEAR SHAREHOLDER also verbally reports to the main Board.
spoke to individuals separately, reporting The Board is committed to maintaining Theindependent Non-Executive Directors back the findings toboth the Board and the highest standards of Corporate are content that satisfactory governance the executive committee.
procedures and controls are being was almost universally positive, more so maintained during this period of absence.
The only This year, we have enhanced our significant points to arise were: approach to risk management and have In accordance with Corporate adopted the revised statement of going Governance best practice, it is the An opportunity for enhanced nonconcern and statement of longer-term Companys policy that all Directors will financial performance measures viability, as discussed elsewhere in submit themselves for re-election at the this report.
The need for further succession 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
planning for all roles at the The Board continues to believe that appropriate time.
The Board has engaged widely with it has an effective, well-balanced shareholders during the year.
We are structure, which includes a group of delighted to welcome so many new The Board was content, given the small Non-Executives who collectively draw shareholders to our register and are size of the Board and its perceived on a wealth and variety of skills and grateful for the significant support we successful nature that this years review experience as shown on pages 50 received during our fund raising in was conducted internally and at no cost.
and51, thus providing for effective October 2015.
Effective communication We shall however review in the new year decision making.
with investors is a key strategic priority whether to employ an independent and no fewer than 119 investor meetings external agency to assist the process.
An internal evaluation was carried out have been held during the year.
A questionnaire was shareholders are encouraged to attend The Board culture is one of openness, circulated to the Board, Company the AGM in July where the Directors and mutual respect and constructive debate.
Secretary and Executive Committee executive team will be available to meet Comprehensive Board papers are members, asking a range of questions shareholders directly and to discuss any circulated in advance to allow members about how each perceived the Board to matters of importance.
Quality of papers had be operating and how individuals were been raised in the previous years Board 48 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board strengths SIMON LAFFIN EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Experienced Chairman Strategy Finance GRAHAM ROBERTS JONATHAN MURPHY CHIEF EXECUTIVE FINANCE DIRECTOR Real Estate Corporate Finance Capital Markets Accounting and Reporting Investment Risk Management COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD JENEFER GREENWOOD DAVID RICHARDSON NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Real Estate Finance and Accounting Customer Focus Mergers and Acquisitions Marketing Corporate Governance Executive Chairman Executive Director Non-Executive Director Composition of the Board Chairmans responsibilities Chief Executives Chairman 1 responsibilities The effective running of the Board, Executive 2 ensuring that the Directors receive Running the Companys business accurate and timely information to Independent Non-Executive 2 Implementing the business strategy enable debate and high quality Regularly updating the Board on decision making progress against approved plans Length of tenure of Directors Promoting high standards of Providing effective leadership of One year Corporate Governance theExecutive Board to achieve the Ensuring that the Board agendas Two years agreed strategies and objectives.
take full account of the important Three years 1 issues facing the Company and Four years 4 theconcerns of all Board members Ensuring, as Chairman of the Nominations Committee, that there are Board succession plans in place in order to retain and build an effective and complementary Board.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 49
