Strategy Four key priorities to sustain performance for the long term Strategic priority Performance in 2016 Priorities for 2017 Key risks KPIs Delivered rental growth Drive development The development pipeline remains subdued andcontinued Property return Focus of 1.2% from settled opportunities to support uncertainty over NHS approval processes fornew developments rent reviews.
could lead tofurther delays in re-building this pipeline.
2016 8.9% Assura has a deep understanding of the economic dynamics of healthcare real estate.
20% growth in investment Investment managers The market is becoming increasingly competitive but 2015 7.8% Bybuilding on the knowledge and expertise of property to1,109million.
tofocus on asset our strong brand and reputation as a long-term investor ourteam and engagement with our healthcare enhancement opportunities.
in the sector means we are well placed to secure further Total Property partners we believe we can generate superior attractive opportunities.
Continue to seek growth Total Property Return through a strategic focus opportunities through Outperformed the IPD All ona highly attractive market.
acquisitions and purchase Healthcare Index by1.9%.
Read more on p20 Engaged with senior NHS Promote benefits of Further changes to the organisational structures or policies of % NHS tenant covenant Expertise leaders and politicians to investment in primary care the NHS could lead to delays to further investment in primary 2016 87.3% The Assura brand has a strong reputation for support transforming infrastructure for the NHS.
However, the current Government remains primary care property.
committed to increased funding for the NHS and an increasing innovation derived from our bespoke designs Build on a strong brand with 2015 86.8% forour medical centres.
Our designs have an role for primary care service provision.
Delivered four newly GPs to be at the forefront of emphasis on flexibility and adaptability to constructed bespoke new development planning.
ensure that the buildings can adapt to the GP-led medical centres.
Read more on p22 One of our four newly Develop zero carbon Sustainable development and building design is an Average EPC rating Culture constructed medical medical centre of the future area of constant change and we are required toensure centres achieved for the NHS.
that we are fully up to date with the latest technologies 2016 B We pride ourselves on our commitment to BREEAM Excellent, with and innovations.
thehighest possible standards in everything Further investment in our the remainder achieving 2015 B we do, our commitment to the sustainability teams development.
agenda, the personal development of our teams and our role in spearheading investment in social infrastructure.
Read more on p24 Property additions of Seek further opportunities Maintaining cost discipline as the business expands will Accounting return Effectiveness 56medical centres toexpand theportfolio.
be crucial in ensuring that we continue to reduce our overall 141million.
Included within this metric is the cost of 2016 7.2% We are committed to supporting the NHS Continue to promote intackling the major underinvestment in UK vacant space and so letting this available space will improve EPRA Cost Ratio reduced theCompany to a wide this cost metric.
2015 7.7% primary careproperty and utilising our skills from 17.7% to 16.5%.
shareholder base and and capital in achieving this.
We have the adiverse group of We have been successful in securing both equity anddebt capital Accounting return has right team to source and manage these debtfunders.
for supporting the expansion of the business although there is no fallen to 7.2%, which opportunities and the right plans to leverage certainty that future expansion willbe supported in the same way.
reflects one-off costs Achieve further scale our teams skills tomaximum advantage.
We believe the fundamentals of the business remain very strong fromrestructuring debt benefits, particularly and attractive to both equity and debt funders.
through reduced cost Read more on p26 ofdebt.
14 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic priority Performance in 2016 Priorities for 2017 Key risks KPIs Delivered rental growth Drive development The development pipeline remains subdued andcontinued Property return Focus of 1.2% from settled opportunities to support uncertainty over NHS approval processes fornew developments rent reviews.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 15 Market Long-term track record and strong relationships with the NHS and GPs A secure and predictable income stream, with an underpinning of inflation linkage, is a highly  ANDREW DARKE PROPERTY DIRECTOR of the significant investment required ofadditional services that are available Market outlook inprimary care property will become inour modern purpose built premises.
The primary care sector is characterised morelikely.
In the 2014 BMASurvey of GP practices by strong real estate fundamentals: 40% of GPs stated that their premises secure occupier covenants, minimal were not fit forpurpose.
development risk, restricted supply with The relative attractiveness of our asset no speculative development and long class is shown in the chart see page 17 leases without breaks.
In addition, the from IPD that shows the overall return The demands on our health service are underlying open market rent review andthe level of volatility of that return since increasing with a greater requirement mechanism most common in the sector itsinception to 2015.
Primary healthcare for treatment of patients with long-term has provided inflation tracking returns provides both the second highest level conditions, now accounting for 50% of over the medium term.
ofreturn and the lowest level of volatility GPappointments.
Across the system, over that period.
If you put thosetwo such patients consume 70% of health factors together, then primary healthcare andsocial care spending.
This is a rising A secure and predictable income stream, provides the best risk adjusted return over trend.
By 2018, the number of people with an underpinning of inflation linkage, a nine-year time horizon.
withmultiple long-term health conditions is a highly attractive proposition for an will rise to 2.9 million an increase of investor who is looking for an alternative 1million since 2008. investment in real estate, with different Increasing demand characteristics to mainstream sectors, Assura as a developer and investor such as residential, retail or office.
The Office for National Statistics has inprimary care property provides Therelative stability and quality of the recently updated its population forecasts bespoke, purpose built premises that underlying income stream are particularly for the next 25 years.
These highlight meet the evolving needs of GPs as relevant at a time of macro-economic both a growth in overall population theylook to meet the increasing health uncertainties in the global economy andsignificant changes in age profile.
requirements of the UK population.
andin the UKs relationship with Europe.
Inaddition, the sector is experiencing The demographic profile forecast GPs are the cornerstone of the UK health increasing demand at a time when forthecountry in 2039 represents a model and provide consultations with supplyhas been heavily restricted by considerable national challenge.
The over 1.3 million patients every day.
Many theapproval processes of the NHS.
number of people aged 75 or over is of these consultations take place in There are increasing signs that this latter expected to be 90% higher at 9.9 million outdated and unsuitable premises that situation is improving and the unblocking people and the number of people over 85 are not able to provide the broad range 16 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements is set to more than double to 3.6 million.
in the NHS England General Practice This elderly age group have many chronic Forward View report.
The report commits conditions that force them to be major to increased funding for GP services of consumers of healthcare resources.
This report 1.3m On average the over 85s visit their from the NHS explicitly recognises the In 2039 the number of people GP 13 times a year.
need for investment in staff, technology aged 75 or over is expected to be andpremises.
As part of its proposals thisreplaces the 1 billion Primary Care 90% higher at 9.9 million people The population is also expected to Transformation Fund, which provides continue to grow with one of Western capital for GP premises to support the Europes highest birth rates, and more greater provision of services, extended children will add to the demands on opening hours and new ways of working, primary care.
These demographic 2.9m with an Estates and Technology trends highlight the challenges faced Transformation Fund Primary Care.
This by the NHS and point to the need for a On average the over 85s visit revised fund has a further 250 million sustained investment programme.
GPs their GP 13 times a year and an extension in its duration of two need fit for purpose buildings to deliver years, though the detailed guidelines more and better services to a growing andcriteria for project selection are still and more demanding patient population.
However, the need for investment is clear and the desire for this The increasing role of the primary care to transform the delivery of primary care sector and the importance of greater is also evident across the GP community.
service provision in the community are The delivery of these projects and their wellrecognised by the NHS as highlighted Risk reward spectrum Nine-year Total Return vs standard deviation 20072015 since the inception of the IPD Healthcare Index 10% 9% Residential index Primary 8% Healthcare 7% Bonds All Healthcare Ofce 6% Industrial 5% All property 4% Equities Retail 3% 2% 1% 0% 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 increased risk reduced risk Risk standard deviation SOURCE: IPD UK Annual Property Index: MSCI: J. P. Morgan 7-10yr www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 17 Total Return per annum Market continued timing remains uncertain though we The NHS recognises that it needs to practitioners such as pharmacists and continue to work with GPs across the meetthe increasing health needs of a nurses.
Co-located practices in larger, country on submissions to secure larger and ageing population through modern buildings are best placed to facilitate approval for relevant projects.
a more efficient model than is currently this shift in the model of service delivery.
Devo Manc represents one possible way of tackling the issues.
There A further development is the increasing These market dynamics make for a very are also a large number of other models attractive long-term opportunity and as coordination of health and social care ofservice delivery being trialed across the and the greater involvement of GPs in the largest investor developer of primary country and these are approaching the care infrastructure we stand ready to play this service provision, as evidenced same issues from a number of different bythe recent announcement of the an even larger role in supporting the NHS.
Some initiatives are looking at devolved healthcare budget for Greater grouping GPs together in Federations, Manchester, so-called Devo Manc.
Market overview others at GPs working under NHS This provides a unified funding model The continuing attractiveness of our Foundation Trusts and working more forprimary care, secondary care and sector for its security and longevity of cooperatively with the hospital sector.
social care and has seen the 6 billion income has seen yields tightened with budget devolved to Greater Manchester.
a movement of 27 basis points on a net TheGreater Manchester Health and Whatever model or range of models is initial basis and 25 basis points on our Social Care Devolution Strategic Plan ultimately selected for service delivery, net equivalent yield.
December 2015 identifies the need for modern fit for purpose premises will be greater provision of community-based needed to enable a wider range of services The chart on the left illustrates the and preventative services outside of to be provided by a broader range of movement in our net initial yield as thehospital sector and places a strong medical practitioners.
A recent study against the IPD monthly UK index highlighted how a primary care-led urgent emphasis on the role of GPs in delivering and the 15-year gilt.
However, this will require care service was able to offer urgent care ata third of the cost of the local A&E significant investment in primary care Our sector is distinct from the wider infrastructure to enable this greater range services.
It is also highlighted that some commercial property market and returns commentators believe as much as 50% of of services to be provided in the are not subject to the same cyclicality.
the current appointments fulfilled by GPs This chart highlights that yields have could be handled by alternative medical been extremely stable and have not moved as much as the wider market, despite the fact that the quality and Net initial yield movement longevity of our cash flows are arguably significantly more attractive than a UK-wide benchmark index.
It is notable thatthe recent volatility in the wider % 8 commercial property market has not impacted our valuations.
We continue to 7 see value in this market and are actively looking for investment opportunities at 6 the current pricing levels.
5 4 3 2 1 0 Jun Jun Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 IPD monthly UK index initial yield Assura net initial yield 15-year gilt 18 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
