Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Audit Committee I am very pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the financial year ended 30 June 2016.
During the year, as required by the Code, we have addressed the requirements of the new long term viability statement and the Board has accepted our recommendations on the form ofthat statement and the related review period see page 43 of the Strategic Report.
In this year's Committee meetings, we have had frequent discussions on key accounting judgements and the impact of the pipeline of new accounting standards.
We have also held in-depth sessions with Senior Management on a variety of topics important to the business including: revenue recognition, tender processes, IT resilience, cyber security and pension provision and funding.
This enables the Committee to truly understand the practical aspects ofthe important issues facing the Group and their related accounting judgements and policies.
In performing our role we work closely with both internal and external audit teams in order toensure our internal control processes remain robust, our financial reporting remains clear and concise and our accounting judgements are appropriate.
Areas of focus for FY17 FY17 is shaping up to be another busy year.
After eight years as Chairman of this Committee, Iwill be stepping down at the 2016 AGM and I am delighted to be handing over to Jock Lennox, avery experienced Audit Committee Chairman.
Jock joined the Board on 1 July 2016 and we havebeen working together since then to ensure a smooth transition of ongoing matters relating to the Audit Committee.
We will be tendering the Group's external audit during FY17.
The Group's tax compliance and advisory services will also be put out to tender.
Further information is available on page 71.
The Audit Committee has been given its authority by the Board and acts in accordance with its The Audit Committee has continued to implement written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
In undertaking its role, the changes to Corporate Governance best practice the Committee has complied with its duties under the Code and will take all necessary steps to ensure compliance with the 2016 Code during FY17.
Set out in the following pages is more detail and monitor developments in accounting standards.
of how we have discharged those duties in respect of the financial year under review.
Wehave reviewed the risk landscape of the business It has been a pleasure to serve you and the Company during my period in office.
and considered in detail our principal risk areas.
We are comfortable that the risk management and Mark Rolfe Chairman of the Audit Committee internal control framework in operation throughout 6 September 2016 the year was appropriate and effective.
Mark Rolfe Audit Committee Chairman 66 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee activity FY16 Main activities undertaken during the financial year The Audit Committee follows an annual work programme: this covers the principal responsibilities as set under its terms of reference, which was fully completed during the year.
The main areas of focus for the Audit Committee during the year were as follows: Going concern and viability statement Assessed the Groups available facilities, headroom Committee effectiveness Integrity of financial statements and banking covenants.
and announcements Considered and made progress against matters Reviewed and challenged managements arising from the 2015 annual evaluation.
Analysed drafts of half and full year results detailed analysis, which included forecasts and Undertook an external evaluation of its performance.
scenarios considering potential downturns in the announcements.
Reviewed and devised an action plan to address Reviewed and addressed key accounting judgements the issues arising from the 2016 annual evaluation Satisfied itself, and recommended to the Board, that and significant issues see pages 68 and 69. page 57. the going concern basis of preparation continues Assessed proforma financial statements for FY16.
Reviewed process established to confirm if Annual Assessed the long term prospects of the Company in Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and order to agree a viability statement for disclosure in understandable page 69. the FY16 Report and Accounts page 43.
Considered and approved material accounting policies, estimates and judgements.
Governance Assessed and approved pension assumptions.
Agreed to the appointment of Jock Lennox as Audit Received updates on the implications of new Committee Chairman designate prior to Mark Rolfe's accounting standards and key regulatory changes.
retirement from the position after the AGM page 64.
Considered and recommended for approval the proposed corporate governance disclosures for the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts including fair, balanced and understandable page 69.
Received updates on general corporate governance requirements, including proposals and recommendations for the viability statement in line with the Code.
Reviewed and updated its terms of reference.
Internal control and risk management systems Monitored and regularly reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems in the context of the Companys appetite for risk page 70.
Considered regular updates from the Risk Committee.
External audit Internal Audit Considered regular updates from the Chief Internal Agreed external audit plans for the half and full year ends.
Received regular updates from the Chief Internal Auditor upon whistleblowing and suspected frauds Auditor on matters arising from audits undertaken andrelated investigations page 73.
Considered the external auditor's reports on half and full year throughout the business.
Reviewed and updated the policy framework and the Met with the Chief Internal Auditor without policies specifically allocated to it.
Met with the external audit partner without management being present.
Kept under review the updating of the Groups Assessed the effectiveness and performance of the external audit page 71.
Reviewed and agreed the Internal Audit plan for FY17 Delegation of Authority Matrix.
Assessed and confirmed the independence of the external auditor page 72. with due regard to the principal risks of the Company.
Received updates on the Groups disaster recovery Considered the process and timing for retendering the Groups external Assessed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit policies and processes.
Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval Regularly reviewed the ratio between audit and non-audit fees page 72. the principal risk disclosures for inclusion in the FY16 Reviewed and updated the policy on auditor independence and Annual Report and Accounts page 42. non-audit fees page 72.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee report continued Role of the Audit Committee Table 6 The role of the Audit Committee is to: Member Role Number of meetings attended Mark Rolfe Chairman 4 4 monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any proposed formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, including any significant Richard Akers Member 4 4 financial reporting judgements and whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, Tessa Bamford Member 4 4 balanced and understandable and review and assess whether it provides sufficient Nina Bibby Member 4 4 information to assess the Company's position, performance, business model and strategy: assess the prospects of the Company over a period of time agreed by the Board and consider Note: 4 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
and confirm whether there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 4 Number of meetings whilst a Director.
continue in operation: In addition to the Company Secretary, the Chief Internal Auditor and representatives from monitor and review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: Deloitte LLP attended each of the Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee met review the Companys principal risks, systems of internal control and risk management: and independently of management and the Chairman of the Board the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Internal Auditor and Deloitte LLP.
The Chief Executive and other members of Senior keep under review the relationship between the Group and the external auditor, including their re-appointment, independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit Management also attended meetings or parts thereof, by invitation.
After each meeting, theChairman reports to the Board upon the business undertaken by the Audit Committee.
process, whilst continually monitoring and, where required, challenging the ratio between audit and non-audit fees.
Significant issues considered during the financial year Audit Committee terms of reference www.
co. uk investors The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee during the financial year and how corporate-governance governance-policies eachof them was addressed were as follows: Going concern Membership and attendance at Audit Committee meetings The Audit Committee: In compliance with the Code, the Committee comprises exclusively of Non-Executive Directors and each of the members is considered to be independent by the Company.
John Allan is not a assessed the Groups available facilities, headroom and banking covenants: member of the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that, Mark Rolfe has recent and relevant reviewed managements detailed analysis, which included forecasts and scenarios considering financial experience to Chair the Audit Committee.
Jock Lennox, who joined the Board on 1 July potential downturns in the housing market: 2016, will succeed Mark Rolfe as Chair of the Audit Committee in November 2016.
Jock is a satisfied itself, and subsequently the Board, that the going concern basis of preparation chartered accountant and Chairman of a number of other Audit Committees and is therefore continues to be appropriate in the context of the Groups funding and liquidity position: well qualified to undertake this role effectively.
There were four scheduled meetings during the year.
Details of the members and attendance at each of the meetings is shown in Table6 and considered the revised disclosure requirements on going concern under the Code: and thebiographies and qualifications of the members are shown on pages 46-47. performed a detailed sensitivity analysis following the UK's decision to leave the EU.
Further details on the Groups going concern assessment can be found on page 115.
Financial reporting The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Group and the Company and all formal announcements relating to the Groups and Companys financial performance.
This process included the assessment of the following primary areas of judgement and took into account the views of Deloitte LLP.
68 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Significant financial judgements for 2016 Carrying value of land and work in progress Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review Land and work in progress WIP are the most significant assets of the Group and as at 30 June 2016 were The Group has 792.2m of goodwill and 100.0m of intangible assets which arose upon the acquisition of carried at 4,226.5m see note 3.1 to the Financial Statements.
We undertake housebuilding and commercial Wilson Bowden see note 4.2 to the Financial Statements.
The Group reviews the carrying value of these assets development and the majority of activity we carry out is not forward sold before we commence development.
on an annual basis to ensure that the present value of the future cash flows that the housebuilding business Accordingly, there is a risk that land and WIP may be held at a value in excess of the lower of cost and net is expected to generate is greater than the carrying value of these assets.
This review includes a number of realisable sale value.
The Group conducts half yearly reviews of land and WIP carrying value and if the judgements around the estimation offuture cash flows and the determination of an appropriate rate with which estimated net realisable value is lower than the carrying value, it impairs the land and WIP value.
to discount these cash flows.
How the Audit Committee addressed those judgements Carrying value of land and work in progress valuation Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review The Audit Committee considered land and WIP accounting judgements review papers at its February, June The Audit Committee considered a goodwill and intangible assets accounting judgements paper at its August and August meetings.
These outlined the review process undertaken and the judgements made with regards meeting.
This outlined the assumptions made, the sources for these assumptions, and the resulting valuation.
to the estimation of further sales proceeds and further build costs.
Deloitte LLP reported upon land and WIP Deloitte LLP reported upon goodwill and intangible assets valuation at the August meeting in the context of the carrying value at the February and August meetings in the context of the half year review and year end audit.
Following detailed consideration of the accounting judgements paper and the findings of Deloitte Following detailed consideration of the accounting judgements papers and the findings of Deloitte LLP, the Audit LLP, the Audit Committee agreed with the judgements made by management and concluded that the valuation Committee agreed with the judgements made by management and concluded that the carrying value of our of goodwill and intangible assets remains appropriate.
land and WIP remains appropriate.
Available for sale financial assets was included as a significant financial judgement for 2015 but due to the sale of the majority of the assets, as described in note 3.5 of the financial statements, thisis no longer considered a material item.
Fair, balanced and understandable Long Term Viability Statement The Audit Committee also undertook a detailed process to consider whether the 2016 Annual In accordance with section C. 2.2. of the Code and the FRC guidance on Risk Management, Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
It considered the feedback Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, the Audit Committee considered provided by shareholders in respect of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the Groups the timescale over which it could sensibly assess the Companys ability to continue to trade, trading updates and the information that the Board had received throughout the year.
The Audit taking into account the Companys business model and prospects.
It concluded that this analysis Committee received an early draft of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts including the risk should be performed over a three-year timespan as explained on page 43 of the Strategic management statement and principal risks disclosure to allow itself sufficient time to review Report.
Presentations were received from management and it was concluded that there was the disclosures therein.
It also received a report from the Company Secretary which confirmed a reasonable expectation that the Group would be able to continue in operation and meet its that: i the Annual Report and Accounts had been reviewed by the Executive Directors: and liabilities over this three-year period.
This was then communicated and recommended to the ii the Company had received confirmation from its external advisers, that the Annual Report Board for approval.
and Accounts adhered to the requirements of the Code and relevant rules and regulations.
The long term viability statement with a full explanation is shown on page 43 of the The Audit Committee then assessed, at its August 2016 meeting, whether the Annual Report and Strategic Report.
Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
It reviewed the processes underpinning the compilation and assurance of the Annual Report and Accounts, in relation to the financial and non-financial management information.
It also reviewed the internal processes underpinning the Groups reporting governance framework and the reviews and findings of the Groups external legal advisers and the auditor.
The Audit Committee concluded that the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and contained sufficient information for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy and recommended as such to the Board.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee report continued The effectiveness of internal controls and the risk management process reviewed a number of process improvements and confirmed that the risk management and internal control systems had been in place and had operated effectively throughout the year The Audit Committee plays a vital role in managing the effectiveness of internal controls and ended 30 June 2016: the risk management process on behalf of the Board.
The key aspects of the Groups system ofinternal control and risk management framework are as follows: provided regular reports to the Board in respect of the findings of its monitoring of the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management process, in order to assist the i a clear organisational structure with defined levels of authority and responsibility for each Board with its assessment that sound risk management and internal control systems had been operating division: maintained throughout the year to safeguard shareholders investments as well as the Groups ii fi financial and management reporting systems under which financial and operating assets in accordance with principle C. 2 of the Code : performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional assisted the Board to determine the nature and extent of the principal risks that are andGroup levels on a monthly basis: appropriate for the Group to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives and to be assured iii identification and review of principal operational risk areas to ensure they are embedded that Executive Directors and Senior Management continue to implement and maintain the in the Groups monthly management reporting system.
This embeds the identification and Groups internal control and risk management systems within the governance and policy control of risk as routine aspects of managerial responsibility.
Details of the management framework approved by the Board: of risk system utilised and the principal risks and uncertainties and their relevance to the carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks including those that would threaten the operations and financial performance of the Group are set out in the Risk management business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity and confirmed that they are being section on pages 41 to 45 of the Strategic Report: and appropriately managed: iv assessment of compliance with the internal control and risk management systems.
received presentations from management below Board level to understand risks and controls This assessment is supported by the Groups Internal Audit team which is responsible for in a number of areas of the business including: revenue recognition, tender processes, undertaking an annual audit plan, ad hoc audits and reporting to the Audit Committee, and if ITresilience, cyber security, pension provision and funding: necessary, the Board, on the operation and effectiveness of those systems and any material failings.
The planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations is approved reviewed in detail the output of the six monthly control self-certification process from each by the Audit Committee.
It includes full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas ofthe divisions: such as land acquisition and sale, cost controls and monitoring WIP, Treasury, payroll and HR.
considered all whistleblowing and suspected fraud reports and actions: Where the Internal Audit team does not have the expertise or resources required to conduct reviewed all internal audit results and action plans and the effectiveness of the Group Internal complex audits they use external expertise.
Audit function: The Groups operations and financing arrangements expose it to a variety of financial risks received regular reports from the Risk Committee in respect of the work it had undertaken that include the effects of changes in borrowing and debt profiles, Government policy, market to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control policies and procedures for the prices, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The most significant of these to the Group identification, assessment and reporting of risks and for assessing individual key risks on is liquidity risk.
Accordingly, there is a regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting arolling basis: of cash flows from the operations to Group management to ensure that risks are promptly identified and appropriate mitigating actions taken.
These forecasts are further stress tested at reviewed the concurrency of the principal risks and the risk management framework to a Group level on a regular basis to ensure that adequate headroom within facilities and banking determine if the descriptions of their operation were up to date, the system of internal control covenants is maintained.
In addition, the Group has in place a risk management programme that remains effective and reported their findings to the Board when considering the draft half year seeks to limit the adverse effects of the other risks on its financial performance, in particular by and full year Financial Statements: assisted the Executive Committee to prioritise the risk using financial instruments, including debt and derivatives, to hedge interest and currency rates.
framework by identifying the risks considered most significant to the Group and assessed their The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Activities are potential impact on the business of any risks identified: and delegated, by the Board, to a centralised Treasury Operating Committee, which in turn reports robustly assessed the structure deployed by the Group when assessing risks.
This is set out to the Board.
The Treasury department implements guidelines in accordance with approved inthe Risk management section on pages 41 to 45 of the Strategic Report.
treasury policies that are established by the Board and the Treasury Operating Committee.
The Audit Committee is pleased with the progress with its short and medium term work During the year the Audit Committee: programmes to date, and recognises that work will need to be continued in these areas during monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls in relation the next financial year.
It will also review whether the internal control and risk management to material financial risks: framework needs adjustment following the EU referendum vote.
70 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information ii Audit effectiveness Review of accounting policies The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit and concluded that the The Audit Committee considered the impact of the accounting standards adopted in the year audit process as a whole had been conducted robustly and that the team selected to undertake and reviewed the Groups progress on projects to consider the impact of IFRS 9 Financial the audit had done so thoroughly and professionally.
In coming to this conclusion the Audit Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 16 'Leases' upon Committee reviewed amongst other matters: theGroups accounting policies and financial statements.
Further information on the impact ofaccounting standards is on page 116.
Deloitte LLPs fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and the absence of any variations from it: reports highlighting the material issues and accounting judgements that arose during the External Auditor conduct of the audit: i External audit tender feedback from Group and regional management finance functions and the Chief Internal Auditor on the performance of the audit: and The Audit Committee considered the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company and whether to tender the external audit in respect of the 2017 financial year.
In arriving at its the report from the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team.
conclusion, the Audit Committee took into account: iii Non-audit services feedback on the effectiveness of the external audit from divisional, regional and Group management who were closely involved in both the half year and year end reporting process: The Committee has approved a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit purposes and continually monitors the ratio of audit to non-audit fees to ensure that it does not exceed Deloitte LLP was appointed as the auditor of the Company through an external tender process the 1:1 ratio prescribed by that policy.
For the purpose of calculating this ratio, non-audit fees in 2007: relating to the interim review are classified as incurred for audit purposes.
At the end of FY16, the appointment of Mark Goodey as the lead audit partner during FY13 and FRC guidance non-audit fees represented 91% of audit fees.
Further details of the audit including audit-related which suggests that the tendering could align with the five-yearly cycle of partner rotation: and non-audit fees incurred by the Group can be found on page 119.
Deloitte LLPs objectivity and independence: The majority of the non-audit fees related to audit-related assurance services comprising: the review of the Groups half year report, taxation compliance for which Deloitte LLP were Deloitte LLPs performance against the audit plan for FY16: and appointed on 1 December 2010 following a competitive tender process in which four of the the quality of advice and assistance brought to bear and received throughout the year.
leading audit firms took part : and also taxation advice on various land acquisitions and disposals during the year.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee was satisfied that the work performed Deloitte LLPs performance as auditor to the Company continues to be satisfactory.
It was therefore, not considered absolutely necessary to perform a tender process for the FY17 audit.
by Deloitte LLP was appropriate in the context of ensuring their independence as auditor, particularly given that the audit-related assurance services, relating to the review of the Groups Mark Goodey will continue to act as lead audit partner for Deloitte LLP until the conclusion of the FY17 audit subject to satisfactory performance.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee recommended half year report, is usually conducted by the Groups auditor and that the tax compliance and advisory services had been managed by a partner who has no involvement with the audit of to the Board that a resolution re-appointing Deloitte LLP as the auditor to the Company be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
That recommendation was subsequently endorsed by the Board.
Consequently, the Audit Committee concluded that the level of non-audit fees was justified and did not raise any concerns in terms of Deloitte LLPs independence as auditor to The Audit Committee did however recognise that it was the appropriate time for the Group the Group.
external audit to be tendered by following a formal process during the first half of the year ended 30 June 2017.
Should the tender exercise lead to a change in auditor, the Audit Committee will The Audit Committee has agreed with Senior Management's recommendation to tender its look to execute the change for the audit of the financial year ended 30 June 2018.
This exercise taxation services during the first half of FY17, having last been tendered in FY11.
The provider is in line with the Code provision to consider tendering external audit every ten years and the ofexternal audit following the audit tender will not be appointed as tax adviser.
FRC guidance that it be linked with the five-yearly lead audit partner rotation.
The results of the tender exercise will be announced at the appropriate time.
The Committee confirms compliance with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Company Market Investigations Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee report continued iv Auditor independence and non-audit fees policy Exceptions The Audit Committee formally reviewed the policy which the Company has implemented on Certain tax and valuation services, including tax advice will be allowed provided: Auditor independence and non-audit fees the Policy during the year.
For FY16, the Policy sets they have no direct or clearly inconsequential effect on the audited financial statements: out the duties of the Audit Committee in this respect and the limited range of services which the auditor has documented and explained the estimated effect on the financial statements the auditor may provide without requiring prior approval of the Audit Committee.
This helps intheir report to the Audit Committee: tomaintain auditor independence and to monitor non-audit fees incurred by the Group.
the ethical principles of the ethical standards are upheld: and The review of the Policy this year had particular regard to the legislation arising from the European Commission reforms of the EU audit market which became effective from 17 June significant reliance is not placed on the results of the non-audit service for the purpose 2016 and is in accordance with the Ethical Standard.
The Policy has been updated as follows: ofthe Audit.
the services that the external auditor is prohibited from providing have been amended in line As per the previous year, the Policy continues to include restrictions on the recruitment of with the legislation: and employees from Deloitte LLP, so that no employee at whatever level of seniority involved in the Company's audit for a two-year preceding period can be hired without the pre-approval of each the inclusion of a 70% cap on non-audit fees based on the average of audit fees over the the Chairman of the Company: the Chair of the Audit Committee and the Chief Financial Officer.
previous three years in preparation for when the EU regulations become applicable to the Company in FY20.
With effect from 1 July 2016, Deloitte LLP no longer provide services to the Group that are prohibited under the new Policy.
Tax compliance services provided by Deloitte LLP concluded Prohibited Services during FY16.
Under the new policy, the services which the external auditor is excluded from providing Under the Policy the Company is required to obtain written confirmation from Deloitte LLP that to the Group are: they remain independent.
This is requested on an annual basis.
For FY16 Deloitte LLP provided tax services and compliance see exceptions opposite : acomprehensive report to the Audit Committee verifying that they have performed their audit services that involve playing any part in the management or decision making process and audit-related services in line with independence requirements and explaining why they ofthe Company: believe that they remain independent within the requirements of the applicable regulations and their own professional standards.
The report also explains why the ratio of audit to non-audit bookkeeping and preparing accounting records and financial statements payroll services: fees and the extent and type of non-audit services provided by them is appropriate.
designing and implementing internal controls related to financial information or designing Following receipt of such confirmations and the completion of their own review, the Audit andimplementing financial information technology systems: Committee endorsed Deloitte's conclusions that the Policy had been appropriately complied valuation services see exceptions opposite : withthroughout the year under review: there were no items that may affect the independence ofthe auditor: and non-audit fees were of an appropriate level.
legal services internal audit human resource services: services linked to financing, capital structure and allocation, and investment strategy ofthe Company: promoting, dealing in or underwriting shares in the Company: and any other service that the Audit Committee determines is not permissible.
72 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Internal Audit function Whistleblowing During the year, the Audit Committee received reports from the Chief Internal Auditor on the The Chief Internal Auditor updated the Audit Committee at each meeting on new whistleblowing findings of internal audits conducted throughout the business, together with details of the incidents, ongoing investigations and the outcome of any completed investigations.
On the back proposed actions to rectify any issues identified.
The Internal Audit function is fully independent ofthese updates, the Audit Committee assessed the adequacy of the Groups whistleblowing of business operations and has a Group-wide mandate.
The Chief Internal Auditor attends all policy in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
It reviewed the whistleblowing Audit Committee meetings.
In addition, the Audit Committee monitors and reviews the systems procedure adopted by the Group, including steps that can be taken to enhance awareness of and processes adopted by the Internal Audit function to ensure that they remain fit for purpose.
theprocess, to ensure it remains appropriate and available to those who need to raise concerns.
During the year the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and The procedure allows individuals who become aware of possible improper, unethical or even confirmed that, in its opinion, the Internal Audit function had operated effectively and provided illegal behaviour to raise the matter with their manager or alternatively refer the matter to a alevel of independent scrutiny of the operations of the Group.
confidential and independent telephone number the Whistleblowing Number.
The Whistleblowing Number is available to all employees together with sub-contractors Audit Committee effectiveness and suppliers 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Any issues reported to the Whistleblowing The Audit Committee successfully implemented the recommendations arising from its 2015 Number are immediately brought to the attention of the Chief Internal Auditor.
This year the Audit Committee's evaluation was performed by an Internal Auditor reviews and investigates the issues and, at his sole discretion, can seek external facilitator along with the Board effectiveness review.
The outcome of the review guidance from appropriate individuals within the Group, such as the Company Secretary, was positive, particularly in respect of each member having a clear understanding of what as and when necessary.
is expected of them to undertake and discharge their responsibilities.
The outcomes are This report forms part of the Corporate Governance report and is signed on behalf of the described on page 57.
AuditCommittee by: Mark Rolfe Chairman of the Audit Committee 6 September 2016 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73
