Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Overview Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Relations with shareholders Your Board is collectively responsible for the Your Board continuously reviews its balance Your Board is mindful of the risk environment Your Board recognises the importance long term success of your Company.
The roles of skills, experience, independence and in which it operates when making of maintaining open dialogue with its are clearly defined with Executive Directors knowledge to ensure that they remain any decisions.
It maintains sound risk shareholders, both private and institutional.
managing the business on a day to day basis appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties management and internal control systems A number of events and communications and the Non-Executive Directors providing and responsibilities effectively.
The Board and regularly reviews the principal risks take place on an annual basis to regularly an appropriate level of scrutiny, challenge undertakes an annual evaluation of its own and assesses the appropriate appetite for communicate with shareholders and to and support.
In this way proposals relating effectiveness and that of its Committees and risk in striving to achieve the Companys encourage their participation.
to strategy, performance, responsibility and of individual Directors.
This section summarises how the Board accountability are constructively challenged This section outlines the independent Board This section details the Boards approach to and individual Directors engaged with and the Board ensures that all decisions are evaluation process undertaken in FY16 and risk management, its internal controls and shareholders throughout FY16 and how well considered, justified and of the highest the outcomes.
It also sets out the progress risk management systems and its processes shareholders can communicate with quality.
In addition, Board processes are made with the actions arising from the FY15 for evaluating that the Annual Report and the Company.
set up to ensure adequate oversight of the evaluation as well as the induction process Accounts of the Company are fair, balanced implementation of those decisions.
This section details the structure and composition of the Board and its Committees, how responsibilities are divided amongst the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, the main activities of the Board inFY16 and its main focus areas for FY17.
See pages 5155 See pages 5659 See page 59 See pages 6061 Remuneration The Board, through its Remuneration Committee, has established a formal and transparent procedure for developing its policy on executive remuneration.
The Groups Remuneration Policy was presented to, and approved by, shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is designed to promote the long term success of the Group.
No changes are proposed to the policy for FY17.
This section summarises the Groups Remuneration Policy, how the policy operated during FY16 and how it will be applied in FY17.
See pages 7697 50 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
