Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Leadership Board composition, diversity and experience as at 30 June 2016 Non-Executive Director tenure Board composition including the Chairman Gender split 20% 40% 0-3 years 3 years 40% 6 years Chairman 1 Male 75% Executive Directors 3 Female 25% Independent Non-Executive Directors 4 Experience Retail Housebuilding Commercial Business Finance development Construction Marketing development See page 65 for details on Board diversity See page 35 for details on diversity in the workforce Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Leadership continued Corporate Governance Statement Key responsibilities of the Board The Board confirms that during the year ended 30 June 2016, and as at the date of this report, the The Board has overall responsibility for providing clear, entrepreneurial, responsible and Company has fully complied with the main and supporting principles of the UK Corporate Governance executive leadership to the Group and for: Code the Code issued in September 2014 a copy of which is available from www.
promoting the long term success of the Group: This report, together with the Other Statutory Disclosures, reports from the Audit, Nomination, Safety, conducting the business of the Group: Health and Environment and Remuneration Committees, provide details of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code during the year under review.
ensuring that the obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met: We describe how we have applied the main principles throughout pages 50 to 97. setting the strategic direction of the Group: and We are aiming to be fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the FRC in 2016 ensuring the Company has adequate resources and the appropriate controls, values and which is applicable to the Company for FY17.
The Company has also complied with the requirements under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Listing Rules and the BIS Directors Remuneration standards to deliver its strategy within a framework that enables risk to be identified and managed appropriately.
Reporting regulations and narrative reporting requirements.
Operational decisions are delegated to Board and Management Committees as illustrated Board balance onpage 55.
The names, responsibilities and other details of each of the Directors of the Board are set out on pages 46 The Board has an annual standing agenda which has been set in accordance with its and 47 with the composition of the Board on page 51.
The Board believes it has an appropriate balance of terms of reference and matters reserved specifically to it, see the Companys website at Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors having regard to the size and nature of the business.
co. uk investors corporate-governance governance-policies In addition, the combination of the experience and calibre of the Non-Executive Directors collectively, having regard to their diverse backgrounds, experience and their varying lengths of service, further enhances this balance and mitigates the risk of group think.
Membership and attendance at Board meetings Board independence Members of the Board throughout the financial year and attendance at each of its scheduled meetings are set out in Table 1.
The Company recognises the importance of its Non-Executive Directors remaining independent throughout their appointment, it enables them to provide objective advice and guidance to the Table 1 Executive Directors and Senior Management through the application of their wide business and Member Role Number of meetings attended commercial experience and diverse backgrounds.
This independence allows the Non-Executive Directors to constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of the Executive Directors John Allan Chairman 9 9 and provide an independent perspective on business strategy, performance and the integrity of David Thomas Chief Executive 8 9 the financial information considered by the Board and disclosed to the Companys shareholders.
Steven Boyes Chief Operating Officer 9 9 In addition, their independence is of the utmost importance when considering the appointment or 2 Neil Cooper Chief Financial Officer 6 6 removal of Executive Directors and in the determination of succession planning for Board positions Richard Akers Non-Executive Director 9 9 and other Senior Management roles within the Group.
All Non-Executive Directors remained Tessa Bamford Non-Executive Director 9 9 independent in character and judgement during the financial year.
It was confirmed as part of the annual conflict of interests review that none of the Non-Executive Directors have business or other Nina Bibby Non-Executive Director 9 9 relationships with the Group or other outside interests that might influence their independence Mark Rolfe Senior Independent Director 9 9 or judgement see page 65.
Details of their interests in shares of the Company are contained Former Director in Table 15 on page 89 of the Remuneration report.
3 Mark Clare Executive Director 1 1 John Allan was considered to be independent on appointment to the Board and on taking up the role of Chairman.
As part of the FY16 annual review of the Chairmans effectiveness, the Non-Executive 1 D avid Thomas was unable to attend one meeting due to personal reasons.
He reviewed the papers and provided comments to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
Directors led by Mark Rolfe, as Senior Independent Director, considered Johns significant commitments 2 Neil Cooper joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 23 November 2015. page 46 and confirmed that they do not impinge upon his availability to fulfil his duties to the Company.
3 M ark Clare stepped down from his position as Group Chief Executive on 30 June 2015 and from the Board on 31 July 2015.
John Allan has demonstrated this throughout the year by ensuring full attendance at each of the Note: Board and majority of the committee meetings, being available to Board members whenever required, 9 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director: 9 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
spending time out in the business and within the Groups corporate offices in London.
John Allan continues to show dedication to his role and commits the time necessary to discharge his duties.
52 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Board activity FY16 Main activities undertaken during the financial year including Matters Reserved The Board had nine scheduled meetings during the financial year to review and approve various key business proposals including those matters specifically reserved to it.
The key responsibilities of the Board and its multi-dimensional work programme throughout the year are set out below: Strategy and management Other Full day offsite strategic review in January focusing Financial reporting and controls on performance against strategy, objectives, business Undertook collective visits to the West and Central Reviewed monthly reports on performance against plan and budget.
regions and attended site visits in the locality.
Received presentations from business functions Reviewed and demonstrated commitment to the Reviewed the proposed three-year business plan.
on strategic opportunities and further developed culture, values and ethics of the Group.
Reviewed and approved half and full year results Conducted health and safety site visits.
Reviewed and approved various material land Reviewed and updated management succession plans.
Assessed if the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
Hold a number of detailed strategy sessions throughout the year rather than holding a one Approved the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Board composition and effectiveness Approved payment of an interim dividend and agreed Discussed the implications of the result of the EU to recommend payment of a final dividend and Implemented the induction process for the new Chief Referendum and agreed to continually monitor the special dividend under the Groups Special Cash Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
situation and to adjust strategy if necessary.
Appointed a new Non-Executive Director Chairman Reviewed the Groups financing agreements.
ofthe Audit Committee and a new Company Secretary.
Reviewed and approved process for satisfaction of Undertook an external evaluation of its own awards under share performance schemes and block performance and that of its Committees and listing requirements.
Reviewed the long term viability of the Company over Considered and approved the re-appointment of a period of three years and approved the long term NinaBibby as a Non-Executive Director.
viability statement to be included in the Annual Report Considered potential conflict of interests.
and Accounts following the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Governance Shareholder engagement Risk management and internal controls Received updates on changes in regulations such as Reviewed shareholder feedback on half and full year Robustly reviewed and approved the effectiveness the Market Abuse Regulation and the Modern Slavery results and outcomes from investor roadshows.
ofinternal control and risk management systems.
Act and assessed their impact.
Received presentations from the Groups Reviewed the Companys appetite for risk and Reviewed share dealing control processes.
approved the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business.
Received updates from each of its Committees.
Met with shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Received regular updates from the Audit Committee Reviewed and approved the Groups Reviewed the 2015 AGM proxy voting figures.
inrespect of internal and external audit reviews.
Reviewed and approved the 2015 AGM Notice.
Undertook six-monthly in-depth health and Reviewed and approved the Boards principal policies.
Reviewed and approved matters reserved to it, its own terms of reference and those for the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director.
Reviewed the Groups operating structure to ensure itremains fit for purpose.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Leadership continued Board roles and their responsibilities The Chairman Leads and manages the Board in the achievement of its objectives, sets its agenda and chairs its meetings: facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: makes certain that the continued development needs of each Director are identified and addressed: and ensures effective communication with shareholders and participates in corporate relations activities including meetings with shareholders and other stakeholders as appropriate.
Chief Executive Responsible for the development of the Groups strategy for the enhancement of long term shareholder return and its recommendation tothe Board for approval: ensures the delivery of Group Strategy approved by the Board: responsible for the day to day leadership and management of the operational activities of the Group in accordance with overall strategy andpolicy as determined by the Board: chairs the Executive Committee through which he carries out his duties: responsible for corporate relations with shareholders and other stakeholders: and responsible for the sustainability policies and practices of the Group.
Chief Operating Officer Responsible for the Groups housebuilding operations: and chairs the operations committee meetings, the other members of which include the Regional Managing Directors.
Chief Financial Officer Responsible for devising and implementing the Groups financial strategy and policies: responsible for managing the Group Legal, Internal Audit and Investor Relations departments: supports the Chief Executive with his corporate relations responsibilities with shareholders and other stakeholders: and manages the Company's relationship with the external auditor.
The Senior Independent Director Responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, at least annually: responsible for ensuring that, where required, he is available to shareholders to: i address any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Chief Executive have failed to resolve: and ii listen to their views in order for the Company to gain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns: and act as a sounding board for the Chairman and, if necessary, an intermediary for the other Directors.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Constructively challenge the Executive Directors: develop proposals on strategy: and monitor the implementation of the Groups strategy within its risk and control framework.
Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties: available to all Directors for advice and support: keeps the Board regularly updated on governance matters: ensures Group policies and procedures are maintained and updated on a regular basis: and attends, and maintains a record of the matters discussed and approved at Board and Committee meetings.
54 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Board Board committees and delegation Board Committees Group Management Committees Audit Committee The Risk Committee Responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control policies and and its systems for internal control and risk management.
It also procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks and monitors the independence, objectivity and tenure of the external auditor, assessing individual key risks on a rolling basis.
considers whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: and assesses the long term viability of the Company.
See page 66 for full report The Land Committee The Reviews and approves all land acquisition proposals across the Group.
Board Depending on the value of the land acquisition or its complex nature Nomination Committee e. g. high rise apartments or joint venture arrangements, Board approval Responsible for monitoring the composition and balance of the Board may also be required.
to ensure that it has the appropriate skills, experience and diversity to successfully deliver the strategy of the Group and ensuring progressive refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
See page 62 for full report The Treasury Operating Committee Reviews the Groups funding requirements and approval of new debt facilities.
Additional approval from the Board may be required for certain types of Remuneration Committee funding and where the level of funding is over and above the levels delegated Responsible for designing and implementing the Groups overall remuneration to the Treasury Operating Committee.
strategy and policy and for setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors Chief Executive and members of Senior Management directly below the Board.
See page 76 for full report The Allotment Committee Responsible for approving the allotment of shares within dilution limits and the authority obtained from shareholders.
Safety, Health and Environmental Committee Executive Committee Responsible for the stewardship of the safety, health and environmental issues impacting the business including, but not limited to, the Groups Supports the Chief Executive in carrying out the day-toThe Health and Safety Operations Committee compliance with the safety, health and environmental management system.
day management of the activities of the Group.
It also monitors any significant safety, health and environmental risks and Develops the health and safety strategy for the Group: ensures that health exposure to the business and the steps taken to mitigate against these.
and safety policies and procedures are adequately implemented and adhered See page 74 for full report to throughout the Group: monitors the effectiveness of the Groups health and safety systems and keeps abreast of changes in legislation surrounding safety, health and the environment.
The Disclosure Committee Responsible for ensuring that the Company remains compliant with the The Operations Committee requirements of the Market Abuse Regulation.
Chief Operating Officer Responsible for managing operational performance.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness Board and Committee Evaluation In accordance with the Code, the Board is responsible for undertaking a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
In 2015 this process was conducted internally and in FY16 we appointed an external company to facilitate the evaluation.
Details of progress made on the outcomes of the 2015 review and the results of the 2016 review are set out below.
Update on 2015 Board performance evaluation outcomes Table 2 Board composition Succession planning Board meetings 2015 outcomes Ensure satisfactory skills, experience and knowledge are Increased focus on succession planning for the Board as a Maintain the disciplines enshrined in Board processes such as maintained to help deliver the Companys long term strategy whole but more specifically for Non-Executive Directors and streamlined papers and pre-allocation of sufficient time to consider and objectives.
Progress in FY16 Reviewed the skills required to achieve the Groups strategy and David Thomas appointed as Chief Executive, he previously Refocus agenda to give greater prominence to items for discussion completed the appointment of Jock Lennox as Non-Executive held the role of Group Finance Director.
and requiring a decision as well as items of strategic significance to Director and Audit Committee Chair designate.
Completed the make the Board decision making process as effective as possible.
Identified that Mark Rolfe was coming up to nine years service appointment of Neil Cooper as Chief Financial Officer.
and appointed Jock Lennox as a new Non-Executive Director.
Progress towards strategic actions now being considered in more Diversity review of the business undertaken and steps detail at each meeting.
identified and implemented to increase diversity levels Reduction of the size of Board and Committee packs to allow for throughout the Group.
important information with supporting documentation to be included in the exhibit book.
Board performance evaluation 2016 Evaluation of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors We last conducted an externally facilitated Board evaluation in respect of FY13.
In accordance As part of the 2016 Board Evaluation, IBE evaluated the effectiveness of the Chairman.
with the Code, we therefore engaged the services of Independent Board Evaluation 'IBE' to Interviews were held with each member of the Board and the result was unanimous support.
undertake the evaluation review for FY16.
IBE also undertook the external evaluation for FY13 Of particular note was the Chairman's ability to steer the Board in a way that encourages giving them a greater insight into how the Board and its procedures have developed over the openness and transparency.
In addition, his knowledge of the important issues requiring Board years.
IBE has no other connection with the Company.
debate and his focus on them during Board meetings was seen as a key strength.
These findings were presented to the Senior Independent Director who shared them with the Board without the Board evaluation process Chairman being present before providing feedback to the Chairman.
IBE attended meetings of the Board and its committees and interviewed all Board members IBE also assessed the effectiveness of each Board Director, including the Non-Executive andkey members of Senior Management.
Their review covered the following: Directors and provided feedback to the Chairman.
The Chairman subsequently held one to one The performance of the Board and its principal committees generally and individually: meetings with each Director to discuss the findings and agree any areas of improvement or training development identified.
There were no issues of any substance arising from this review.
board contribution to strategy and shareholder accountability: In addition, in accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Chairman met at least once risk management: with the Non-Executive Directors independently of the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive financial and operating reporting: Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present usually prior toor immediately following Committee meetings.
succession planning including diversity : inter-relationships between the Board and its Committees and between the Executive andNon-Executive Directors: board Committees and decision making: and effectiveness of each Director.
56 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2016 External Board Effectiveness Evaluation Outcomes IBE delivered their report to the June Board meeting.
The results were generally positive and identified governance processes, shareholder accountability and relations, selection of new Board members and Board culture as areas of particular strength.
The areas of improvement identified were: Table 3 Succession planning Training and Development Strategy 2016 outcomes Further work required to identify talent within the business To assess the requirements for Board training and development To have a longer term view on strategy for the Group.
and to ensure that potential successors to Board roles are for individual Directors.
Increased focus required on diversity ethnic and gender throughout the business.
Actions for 2017 Executive Directors together with HR to focus on identifying Each Director to provide suggestions and an annual timetable Specific sessions to be held throughout the year to focus on employees below Board level as potential future successors.
for training and development to be maintained.
strategic issues identified by the Board.
A programme on diversity led by the Chief Executive, has commenced in FY16 and will be developed further in FY17.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee 2016 outcomes All Committees are operating effectively with members understanding what is expected of them to undertake and discharge their responsibilities as well as their regulatory requirements.
The Committee is well versed in the detail of audit issues and Continue the focus on simplifying remuneration structures over Actions for 2017 To support the Board in identifying successors for Board and focus over the next year will be to include a more strategic view the coming year.
committee members as well as Senior Management.
of financial and audit issues.
Focus on diversity throughout the business especially with regards to gender and ethnic diversity.
Information and support Training The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, ensures that the Board receives The Chairman regularly reviews training requirements of, and annually agrees development accurate, timely and clear information.
Each Director is issued with an agenda, briefing papers needs with, individual Directors.
A number of internal presentations and updates are provided to and comprehensive operating and financial management reports for the period under review, Directors as part of the Board and strategy agenda.
This forms part of the training the Directors generally five working days before any Board meeting.
The Company Secretary attends all receive for their role.
Subjects are chosen based on their impact on the business and include Board and Committee meetings and all Directors have access to her advice and, if necessary, but are not limited to general economic and market updates, government and regulatory toindependent professional advice at the Companys expense to assist with the discharge environment, our customers, financial updates and planning, sales and product development.
of their responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors are provided with a rolling three-year schedule of proposed meeting dates.
Any Director who is unable to attend a meeting is invited to provide their views to the Chairman ahead of that meeting, having reviewed the agenda, briefing papers and management information.
Reasons for non-attendance are recorded by the Company Secretary and either sheor the Chairman will meet with any absent Director to go through any action points which are of relevance.
Formal minutes of each Board meeting are prepared, circulated and submitted forapproval at the next meeting.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Effectiveness continued Induction On joining the Company, each new Director participates in a full and formal induction process.
Neil Cooper's induction The aim of the induction is to assist the Director to familiarise himself with the business and Neil Cooper was provided with a tailored induction process which included, amongst other its culture in addition to the roles and responsibilities of the Board and each member of Senior matters, health and safety training, site visits, meetings with all Board members and the Management.
Site and divisional functional visits are arranged so the Groups business is Company Secretary, key external advisers and senior and operational management teams seen in operation.
Each new Director is provided with an induction pack containing general across the business.
This enabled him to gain a greater understanding of our products, and specific information relating to their role such as a schedule of meetings, copies of Board processes and policies.
Neil met with the Group's brokers and analysts to gain an external minutes, various policies and procedures, details of their duties as a Director of a listed plc and perspective of items of importance to the Group.
He also met major shareholders of the other obligations under the various regulations governing the Company.
David Thomas' induction David Thomas' induction was focused on his new role as Chief Executive given that he was already familiar with the Group's operations having previously held the position of Group Finance Director.
He worked closely with Mark Clare to gain a more in-depth view of the role and the associated responsibilities to ensure a smooth transition.
During this period David met with external analysts and stakeholders and internal management allowing him to gauge for himself the priorities of the business.
Neil Cooper visiting the Group Urban Design team at the Group Support Centre in Leicestershire.
Pictured with Phillip Livesley, Senior Urban Designer.
David Thomas on a health and safety visit to our Saxon Rise site at Mercia.
Pictured with Group SHE Director, Vince Coyle and Projects Manager, Ian Green.
58 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Accountability Internal controls and risk management Jock Lennox's induction In accordance with provision C. 2.3. of the Code, the Board monitors and regularly reviews the Jock Lennoxs induction began as soon as he accepted his appointment.
He was sent various effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including those related to material documents for him to begin to understand the Company and its culture.
As an experienced financial, operational and compliance performance and the risk management systems see Non-Executive Director, Jock was already familiar with his obligations as a plc Director of a the Audit Committee report on pages 66 to 73.
A risk framework has been developed for listed company.
Meetings were arranged with all Board members and members of Senior all business processes by the Internal Audit function and approved by the Audit Committee.
Jock also visited various regional offices and sites across the country including This framework forms the basis of the internal control audit plan for the year ahead, which tests the Group Support Centre in Leicestershire.
if key controls are being applied effectively in each operating division.
Material issues identified during internal audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board on a quarterly basis.
Any necessary actions are immediately taken to remedy any significant failings in the internal control system.
The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage risks that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal controls therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal controls does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential issues can be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
Further details can be found in the risk management section of the Strategic Report pages 41 to 45.
The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups Financial Statements are reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
A review of the consolidated accounts and Financial Statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
The Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
Fair, balanced and understandable As part of its considerations, the Board reflected upon the feedback shareholders provided in respect of our 2014 15 Annual Report and Accounts.
It also set aside adequate time to review Jock Lennox visiting a sales office at our Malbank Waters site in the Central region.
Pictured with Angela ONeill-Walker, Sales Adviser.
anddiscuss significant areas of the 2015 16 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board assessed the tone, balance and language of the document being mindful of the requirements of the Code and the need for consistency between the narrative section of the Report and the Financial Statements in arriving at its conclusion.
The Board's formal statement on the Annual Report and Accounts being fair, balanced and understandable is contained within the Director's Responsibility Statement on page 104.
The process undertaken by the Audit Committee to assist the Board in assessing if the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable can be found on page 69.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report continued Relations with shareholders 2015 Activity July August September October November December Post year end trading update.
Full year results Annual Corporate Trading update and Annual Private client brokers announcement and Governance meetings with General Meeting.
Annual update on analyst presentation.
remuneration to major Institutional broker sales Chief Financial investors and principal UK and US roadshows desk briefings.
Officer introductory investor advisory groups.
following the full year analyst meetings.
Top shareholders and key results announcement.
investor roundtable chaired Institutional broker sales by Chief Executive and Senior desk briefings.
Ad hoc meetings with existing and potential investors and sell-side analysts The Board recognises the importance of having an effective relationship with its shareholders investor relations activities, including updates from the Companys brokers.
Additionally, the and other stakeholders.
The Group has arrangements in place which enable it to communicate Companys brokers presented an analysis of investor feedback during the year under review.
effectively with shareholders in respect of business strategy, governance, remuneration and any Investor Meetings Senior Management or Board changes.
It also conducts regular institutional investor meetings after the release of the annual and half year results and following the publication of each of our The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with investors and analysts trading updates.
in order to convey an understanding of the market and the Groups operations and objectives.
These meetings take place throughout the year but particularly after the annual and half year Trading Updates results announcements.
In FY16, the Directors attended a total of 161 investor meetings 133 one We are fully aware that the Disclosure and Transparency Rules have removed the requirement to one meetings and 28 group meetings.
In addition, they attended a number of conferences and for companies to publish interim management statements to the market in between the full and investor roadshows in the UK and the US.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors also half year results.
We therefore undertook a review of our reporting frequency and, given the have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders at the request of either party.
cyclical nature of our business, we believe that it is imperative that we keep our shareholders The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with major shareholders, as and when fully informed of the performance of the business on a regular basis.
In addition, given that we required, to gain an understanding of any issues and concerns.
only publish short trading updates four times a year, two of which are in preparation for the half Remuneration Committee and full year results, the burden on management time is not deemed to be excessive.
We will therefore continue to publish trading updates in FY17 four times a year and will keep the position During the year, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consulted with major investors under review.
and the principal investor advisory groups on the proposed remuneration outcomes for FY15 and the Groups approach to remuneration for FY16, in accordance with the Remuneration Policy Any announcement published via the Regulatory Information Service including the half year approved at the 2014 AGM.
This process was also repeated in August 2016 in respect of the FY16 and annual results, trading updates and other Company announcements can be found on the outcomes and proposals for FY17.
Board Updates Annual General Meeting In order to ensure that all Directors are aware of, and have a clear understanding of, the views of All Directors, including the Chairmen of the Committees, attend the AGM and are available to answer shareholder questions.
The notice of each AGM and related papers are circulated to all major shareholders, the Chief Financial Officer reports regularly to the Board on the Companys shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
60 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2016 2016 Activity Activity January February March April May June January February March April May June Post half year end Half year results US roadshow following the Private client Q3 trading update.
Institutional broker sales Post half year end Half year results US roadshow following the Private client Trading update.
Institutional broker sales trading update.
announcement and half year results.
Institutional broker sales analyst presentation.
Institutional broker sales Private client brokers group Institutional broker sales desk briefings.
Goldman Sachs Small & Mid Peel Hunt Builders, desk briefings.
Goldman Sachs Small & Mid Peel Hunt Builders, following the half year Paris roadshow following the cap Symposium.
Industrials and Support following the half year Paris roadshow following the Cap Symposium.
Industrials and Support results announcement.
Deutsche Bank half year results.
Deutsche Bank Institutional broker sales Housebuilding conference.
Institutional broker sales Housebuilding Conference.
Ad hoc meetings with existing and potential investors and sell-side analysts Ad hoc meetings with existing and potential investors and sell-side analysts.
Between 1 July 2016 and 6 September 2016 the following changes in respect of interests in the Major shareholders voting rights in the Companys issued share capital have been notified to the Company: In accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTRs, all notifications received by the Company are published on the Companys website % of total www.
co. uk and via a Regulatory Information Service.
Number of issued share Nature of 1 1 Name voting rights capital holding As at 30 June 2016, the persons set out in Table 4 have notified the Company, pursuant BlackRock, Inc. 50,693,351 5.05 Indirect to DTR 5.1, of their interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital.
1 Based on the Total Voting Rights as at the relevant notification dates.
Table 4 Notifiable Interests The Total Voting Rights of the Company as announced on 1 September 2016, are 1,003,771,524.
% of total issued Number of share capital Nature of 1 On behalf of the Board Name voting rights when notified holding BlackRock, Inc. 50,694,370 5.05 Indirect Capital Research and Management Company 89,384,141 8.97 Indirect John Allan FMR LLC 34,579,199 8.24 Indirect Chairman Standard Life Investments Ltd 47,711,714 4.94 Direct & Indirect 6 September 2016 1 Represents the number of voting rights last notified to the Company by the respective shareholder in accordance with DTR 5.1.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61
