Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Nomination Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee plays a vital role within the business.
It ensures that the Company is headed by an effective Board which is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company.
Through the strategic focus of the Nomination Committee, we can ensure that the Board has the optimum skills and experience for achieving its long term strategy and goals.
We aim to build a responsive, open and transparent culture, where contributions are valued, so it is imperative to get the appointment process right.
A key focus of the Nomination Committee during the year under review was the appointment and re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors and the external Board evaluation.
One of our key areas of focus for the next financial year will be to oversee the implementation of the recommendations of the performance evaluation of the Nomination Committee.
John Allan Chairman of the Nomination Committee 6 September 2016 This has been a year of consolidation for the Nomination Committee following the changes to the Executive Directors in FY16.
John Allan Nomination Committee Chairman 62 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Nomination Committee activity FY16 Main activities undertaken during the financial year The Nomination Committee met formally on three occasions during the year to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to it by the Board.
The main areas of focus for the Nomination Committee during the year were as follows: Board composition and balance Reviewed skills, experience and knowledge of each Board member and of the Board as a whole, against the needs of the Board.
Considered and recommended to the Board the re-appointment of Nina Bibby as Non-Executive Director pages 64 and 65.
Governance Considered and confirmed the independence of, and commitment to the role of, each NonSuccession planning Executive Director.
Conducted external recruitment process for a new Considered and recommended to the Board the Non-Executive Director page 64. authorisation of the potential conflict of interest arising from Neil Coopers role as Non-Executive Director Considered and recommended Richard of Pennon Group PLC.
Akers as a successor to Mark Rolfe as Senior Independent Director.
Undertook an annual review and recommended to the Board the renewal of the authorisation of existing Assessed the tenure of Board members and held Directors potential conflict of interests.
discussions with Directors on expected length of service in order to inform the succession plan Approved a new procedure for conflicts and potential page 65. conflicts to be reviewed by Directors at each Board meeting and not just annually page 65.
Reviewed and approved its annual agenda and terms of reference.
Committee effectiveness Reviewed and made progress against matters arising from the 2015 annual evaluation.
Undertook an external evaluation of its own performance and reviewed and devised an action plan to address issues arising page 57.
Nomination Committee Terms of Reference: www.
co. uk investors corporate-governance governance-policies Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Nomination Committee report continued Role Appointment and re-appointment of Directors The role of the Nomination Committee includes: The Nomination Committee leads the process for appointments to the Board and makes recommendations to the Board when suitable candidates have been identified.
When a vacancy monitoring the structure, size and composition of the Board: arises the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of each and knowledge on the Board and considers this against current and future needs to deliver ofthe members: its strategy.
It then prepares a description of the roles and capabilities required for that appointment.
The search for Board candidates is carried out, and appointments made, on merit making recommendations to the Board in respect of any changes required: with due regard for Board diversity and the need to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and leading the process for Board appointments: experience.
External recruitment consultants are used where appropriate.
giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors and Senior Management Appointment of Jock Lennox in the course of its duties: During the year, the Nomination Committee began a formal process to identify a suitable regularly reviewing the time commitment required from the Chairman and the candidate to replace Mark Rolfe who indicated his intention to step down from his position Non-Executive Directors to satisfactorily fulfil their roles: and through an orderly transition following eight years of service.
Consideration was given to the considering and, if deemed appropriate, authorising potential conflict of interests.
skills and experience required of the new Director and a job description was produced.
The Zygos Partnership, an independent recruitment agency, with no other connection to the Company, were Membership and attendance at meetings then briefed in order that they could assist with the search.
A list of candidates of both genders was prepared and reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
Four candidates were shortlisted and The membership of the Nomination Committee and the attendance at each of its scheduled met with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The two preferred candidates then met meetings is set out in Table 5.
In accordance with Code provision B.
2.1. the majority of Committee the remaining members of the Board.
Jock Lennox, who is the Chair of a number of other Audit members are considered independent by the Company and their biographies and qualifications Committees and who demonstrated that he had the relevant financial experience, was selected are shown on pages 46 and 47. to take on the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee felt that his considerable and wide ranging experience would be an asset to the Group and recommended his appointment Table 5 to the Board for approval.
John Allan absented himself from the final decision to appoint Jock Member Role Number of meetings attended Lennox due to his previous working relationship with Jock at Dixons Carphone plc.
John Allan Chairman 3 3 Richard Akers Member 3 3 Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors Tessa Bamford Member 3 3 Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for an initial three-year term and normally serve a second three-year term, subject to re-election by shareholders and statutory provisions Nina Bibby Member 3 3 relating to the removal of Directors.
Beyond this a third term of up to three years may be Mark Rolfe Member 3 3 served subject to particularly rigorous review and taking into account the need for progressive David Thomas Member 2 3 refreshment of the Board.
The Articles, in accordance with the Code, require any Non-Executive Director who has served nine years or more on the Board continuously to be subject to annual 1 D avid Thomas was unable to attend one meeting due to personal reasons.
He reviewed the papers and provided comments re-appointment.
to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
The letters of appointment of all Non-Executive Directors alongside the service contracts for the Note: Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office 3 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
during normal office hours or via the Companys website www.
3 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
Copies will also be available at the 2016 AGM for 15 minutes before and throughout the meeting.
The letters of appointment clearly set out the time commitment expected from each Non-Executive Director to ensure they satisfactorily perform their duties.
The required time commitment is reviewed annually by the Board.
Each Non-Executive Director confirms that they are able to allocate the time commitment required at the time of their appointment and thereafter as part of their individual annual effectiveness review undertaken by the Chairman.
64 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information During the year, the Nomination Committee considered the re-appointment of Nina Bibby.
Directors conflict of interests The Nomination Committee was satisfied that Nina remains independent in character and The Board has, in accordance with the Articles and best practice guidelines, authorised the judgement and has no other relationship or circumstance that would affect this.
Nina confirmed Nomination Committee to oversee the process for reviewing and making recommendations to the that she would be able to continue to dedicate sufficient time to fulfil her role as a Non-Executive Board concerning any actual or potential conflict of interests which may arise for any Board member, Director of the Company.
Accordingly, the re-appointment of Nina for a second three-year term including details of any terms and conditions which it deems necessary to impose on any authorisation was recommended to the Board, which it fully endorsed.
This process was carried out satisfactorily during the year in respect of all Directors.
Retirement and re-election of Directors The Company Secretary maintains a register of Directors conflict of interests which is reviewed annually with recommendations made to the Board in respect of any changes to the authorisations The Articles currently require Directors to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the first AGM following their initial appointment to the Board and thereafter at intervals of no that may be required.
Following the annual review for 2015, it was agreed that the register of conflicts would be reviewed at each Board meeting.
This enables each Director to review their more than three years.
All Board members will, however, in accordance with the Code, stand for entries and notify the Chairman and or the Board of any new conflict or possible conflict and of any re-election by shareholders at the 2016 AGM irrespective of their date of appointment and length change in circumstances relating to authorisations already given.
The Board, when authorising of service on the Board.
anyconflict or possible conflict of interests, does not count in the quorum the Director whose Biographical details of each of the Directors and supporting statements for their re-election conflict or possible conflict is being discussed and reserves the right to exclude a Director from are set out on pages 46 and 47 of this report and in the Notice of the 2016 AGM.
Details of the ameeting whilst a conflict or possible conflict is being considered.
The Board may revoke or vary Executive Directors service contracts can be found in the Remuneration report on page 83. any authorisation at any time.
Each of the Directors has been subject to a formal performance evaluation process and the Nomination Committee, and the Board, are satisfied that they each continue to be effective in, Board diversity policy and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles.
The Board, therefore, recommends During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the Groups policy on diversity, including that shareholders approve the resolutions to be put forward at the 2016 AGM relating to the professional, international and gender diversity.
This policy was in turn also considered by the re-election of all Directors.
The Nomination Committees primary goal remains to identify the most suitable candidate to join the Board and for other senior positions within the Group.
However, it also seeks to ensure that, Succession Planning Executive Directors in managing an appointment and in succession planning, it has regard to the benefits of diversity, During the year, the Board undertook its annual review of the Group's succession plans.
including but not restricted to gender diversity and its impact on effective decision making.
This involves a review of succession plans for Executive Directors and other Senior Management In terms of gender diversity the Board will continue to work only with recruitment search consultants roles below Board level.
The aim of this review is to identify suitable individuals who are capable who have adopted a voluntary code of conduct addressing gender diversity.
The Board has agreed of filling senior managerial positions and ensure that their development needs are identified not to impose a quota regarding gender balance preferring instead to appoint strictly on merit.
It also seeks to ensure that the Board's future needs are met.
As part of their The Nomination Committee and the Board do recognise the need to ensure that the business reflects development, senior managers who are not of Board level will be invited to attend part of a Board a diverse workforce, at all levels of seniority, whilst always seeking to ensure that each post is offered meeting to present on their specialist area.
This also enables the Board to assess the quality of to the best available candidate.
Promoting diversity at a Senior Management level and more generally internal talent and for the individual to get a greater understanding of the workings of the Board.
within the workforce is an objective for the Chief Executive and HR Director.
Progress has been made In order to assist with the development of senior managers, they are able to take on nonwith promoting diversity within the business see page 35, Diversity and inclusion.
executive roles with other organisations in order that they can widen their experience.
The Nomination Committee plays an active part in this process.
It intends to place a greater Barratt Developments PLC Diversity Policy focus on succession planning during the next year in response to the outcomes of the recent www.
co. uk sustainability our-policies external effectiveness review.
This report forms part of the Corporate governance report and is signed on behalf of the Succession Planning Non-Executive Directors Nomination Committee by: The Nomination Committee reviews annually the length of service of the Non-Executive Directors and holds conversations with the longer serving members to create a plan for the John Allan progressive refreshment of the Board.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 6 September 2016 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65
