St G St Go o rateg rateg v five er rn na a i ic c n n Rep Rep c ce e a an n o or r d Re d r t t emu mu ner ner at at ion ion REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee leads the process for Board appointments The Board and its Committees Throughout the year the membership of each Committee has comprised independent Non-Executive Directors to the extent required by the Code B.
We value continuity and experience of British Lands business and were delighted to recommend that Lord Turnbull be re-appointed as Senior Independent Director.
Lord Turnbull will however step down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee following this years AGM, although he will remain a member of that Committee.
William Jackson has agreed to take on the position of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
2.4 As reported last year, following a rigorous selection process, Laura Wade-Gery was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of British Land on 13 May 2015.
Lauras biography demonstrates her huge retail and consumer experience.
No further changes to the Board occurred during the year.
Composition of the Board John Gildersleeve The Committee considers that the Board consists of individuals with Chairman of the Nomination Committee the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge to provide strong and effective leadership of the Company.
The majority of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors, and the Boards collective Nomination Committee members attendance during experience covers a range of relevant sectors, as illustrated in the left the year ended 31 March 2016 hand column.
As well as a breadth of property and financial experience, John Gildersleeve 2 2 many Board members have personal experience of working in the retail William Jackson 2 2 and corporate environments that are typical of many of our occupiers.
Lord Turnbull 2 2 All of British Lands Directors will retire and submit themselves for A.
1.2 re-election by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee believes that all the Directors continue to demonstrate Composition of the Board commitment to their roles as Board and Committee members, continue to discharge their duties effectively and that each makes a valuable contribution to the leadership of the Company.
8% 33% Non-Executive Chairman Diversity Independent Non-Executive Directors British Land pays full regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender Executive Directors diversity, both when the Nomination Committee is searching for 59% candidates for Board appointments and when the Company is searching for candidates for other appointments.
The Board agrees with the conclusions of the Women on Boards report by Lord Davies of Abersoch that greater efforts should be made in 1 Directors core areas of expertise improving the gender balance of corporate boards and that quotas for female board representation are not the preferred approach.
The Property 38% Company currently has three female Directors: Lynn Gladden and Laura Finance 38% Wade-Gery, who were appointed as Non-Executive Directors in 2015, Retail and consumer 12% and Lucinda Bell, who was appointed Chief Financial Officer in May 2011.
Academic 6% This currently represents 25% female Board membership.
Public sector 6% 1 Some Directors are represented in more than one category.
84 84 Br Brit itish ish L La and nd A An nn nu ua al l Re Rep po or rt t a an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 16 6 Principal responsibilities of the Committee Key areas discussed and reviewed by the Committee in 2016 Regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board.
Review of the structure, size, composition of the Board, along with the skills, knowledge and experience of its members to ensure that Directors remain able to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively and to the required high standard.
Recommendations to the Board with regard to Board changes Selection and appointment of Laura Wade-Gery as a Non-Executive and Committee membership changes.
Appointment of William Jackson as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
Succession planning, including identification of potential internal candidates for senior vacancies which may arise on a crisis, short, medium or long term basis.
Reviewing time commitments required from Non-Executive Directors.
Time commitments required from Non-Executive Directors were reviewed as part of the year end process.
Recommendations for re-election of Non-Executive Directors.
Recommendations to the Board regarding Directors standing for re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
Terms of Reference The Committees Terms of Reference can be found on the Companys website at www.
2.1 The promotion of women to the Board and other senior positions Our people strategy focuses on creating a team who can deliver within the Company is dependent on the recruitment, development Places People Prefer.
Getting closer to our customers is one of our key and retention of women in the workforce, both within the Company strategic priorities and having a workforce which reflects the diversity and more widely throughout the business and professional community.
of our customers helps us achieve this.
The policy throughout British Land is to employ the best candidates available in every position regardless of As of 31 March 2016, British Lands employees including Broadgate sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, colour, age, religion or philosophical Estates comprised 283 females and 306 males 2015: 218 and 247 belief, sexual orientation, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy, respectively : of the employees considered to be executives, 141 were maternity, gender reassignment or disability.
Applications for employment female and 257 were male 2015: 115 and 205 respectively.
Senior by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the executives, comprising the Executive Committee and Operations aptitudes of the applicants concerned.
In the event of members of staff Committee, consisted of 11 females and 26 males 2015: 8 and 17 becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment respectively.
To encourage and help mothers return to work, we offer continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
The policy provides enhanced maternity leave payments and support flexible working that the training, career development and promotion of disabled people patterns: currently 27 of our female employees take advantage of this should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
We also offer enhanced paternity leave payments and support flexible working patterns for all parents and other employees We achieved a key milestone on our journey towards creating a truly whose personal circumstances may make this beneficial.
Currently 13 inclusive environment with our formation of BL Pride, our lesbian, gay, men work flexibly and 5 men took advantage of enhanced paternity leave bisexual, transgender LGBT and allies network, and our Womens 2015: 9 and 14 respectively.
Training and mentoring programmes are network this year.
Both networks have been active in the year and we are provided to ensure that all our employees achieve their potential, taking pleased that our Chief Executive, Chris Grigg was ranked 11th in the 2015 account of their diverse development needs.
It is pleasing that our Chief Leading 30 LGBT Ally Executives by OUTstanding and the Financial Times.
Financial Officer, Lucinda Bell, was an internal appointment, reflecting the development of our own people.
We are also piloting a mentoring scheme for women, offering help, guidance, advice and support where it is needed.
The Nomination Committee seeks to increase the percentage of female Board members as quickly as we are able.
The speed at which we can achieve this will be subject to the availability of suitable candidates and compliance with the requirements of the Equality Act: the Board has a fundamental obligation to ensure that appointments are of the candidates best able to promote the success of the Company and we John Gildersleeve do not consider that it would be to the long term benefit of the Company Chairman of the Nomination Committee if appointments were made on any other basis.
Subject to these requirements, we have an ongoing commitment to further strengthening female representation at Board and top management level.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85
