St Go rateg verna ic n Rep ce an or d r t emuneration GOVERNANCE REVIEW Our robust governance structure is an integral part of the way we design and deliver our strategy The Board has continued to apply good governance practices during The Chairman meets with individual Directors outside formal Board the year and considers that the Company has fully complied with the UK meetings, as part of each Directors continuing contribution to the Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This section of the Annual Report delivery of the Companys strategy.
This process also allows for open, and Accounts 2016 outlines how we have applied the Codes principles two-way discussion about the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and provisions throughout the year.
We are reporting against the Code and individual Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive.
By these which applies to companies with reporting periods beginning on or after means, the Chairman is continually informed of the views of individual 1 October 2014.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
uk Directors and can act as necessary to deal with any issues relating to Board effectiveness before they become a risk to the Company.
Leadership The Boards core responsibilities include setting British Lands strategic The Strategy Days aims and leading the Company as it works to achieve these aims and The annual Strategy Days held in February are attended by the full attain long term success.
The Board focuses on strategy throughout Board and the Executive Committee.
the year and the annual Strategy Days provide a key opportunity to do this, as explained in the box to the right.
Progress against, and the The Executive Directors, senior executives and external guests deliver appropriateness of, the agreed strategy are considered at Board a number of presentations to the Board, providing an in-depth analysis meetings during the year, in light of Company performance and on all aspects of the business and the external environment.
The changes to the external environment.
Strategy Days are a key opportunity to discuss, challenge and develop the Companys strategy.
There is a written division of responsibilities between the Chairman responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive responsible As well as considering the Group as a whole and the overall corporate for running the Companys business, which has been approved by the strategy, consideration is given to each part of the Groups current and Board A.
2.1. prospective portfolio, and to Group financing.
The Executive Directors, led by the Chief Executive, are responsible The days are carefully structured to achieve a balance between for ensuring that the business is run in accordance with the Boards presentations and time for debate and discussion.
The relatively small number of employees at British Land means that the Executive Directors are involved in, or aware of, all major Areas focused on at the 2016 Strategy Days included: activities of the Group hence they are extremely well placed to ensure Corporate Strategy that actions are aligned with the Boards strategy.
This is exemplified by Feedback from Investor Perception Audit the process by which investment opportunities are appraised.
More Office Strategy information on the involvement of the Executive Directors in the Retail Strategy investment process can be found on page 77.
Canada Water The Board sets the parameters and controls within which the Companys Culture and composition of the Board management may operate when undertaking the day-to-day running of The composition of the Board is a fundamental driver of its success as the business.
These controls ensure that decisions are taken by people it provides strong and effective leadership: the breadth of knowledge, with the correct authority to do so.
skills and experience of our Non-Executive Directors is detailed in their biographies on pages 68 and 69.
The Nomination Committee is responsible The major decisions reserved for Board approval and other decisions for reviewing the composition of the Board and Board-level Committees delegated to the Executive Directors are formally documented A.
1.1. and assessing whether the balance of skills, experience, knowledge and The Executive Directors make decisions within these predefined independence is appropriate to enable them to operate effectively B.
Decisions that would normally fall within these parameters may still be taken to the full Board for approval where such decisions The procedure for the appointment of new Directors is rigorous and relate to activities outside the ordinary course of business or where transparent.
Other than the appointment of Laura Wade-Gery on 13 May the Executive Directors consider it appropriate to do so.
Management 2015, no changes to the composition of the Board occurred during the year.
Committees deal with their specific areas of responsibility before making decisions where they have authority to do so or recommending actions for Board-level approval, if this is required.
A key consideration when making each decision is on whether the proposed action is aligned with the strategy the Board has developed.
74 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and all Effectiveness Directors offer themselves for election or re-election by shareholders Regular Board and Committee meetings are scheduled throughout at the Annual General Meeting AGM each year, if the Board, on the the year and the Directors ensure that they allocate sufficient time to recommendation of the Nomination Committee, deems it appropriate discharge their duties effectively.
Occasionally, Board meetings may be that they remain in office B.
7 held at short notice, when Board-level decisions of a time-critical nature need to be made.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment set out Lord Turnbull has been a Non-Executive Director since April 2006. the time commitments expected and each Directors attendance record He has now completed ten years in office.
Whilst taking into account the shown on page 70 is considered when assessing whether they should need to progressively refresh its members through new appointments, stand for reappointment by shareholders.
the Board recognises the importance of continuity and the value that Directors who serve for many years are able to bring.
When a The Chairman considers that all the Directors continue to devote Non-Executive Directors tenure goes further than nine years their sufficient time to discharging their duties to the required high standard.
independence is carefully reviewed and monitored.
The Nomination British Lands policy is to allow Executive Directors to take one nonCommittee has again rigorously reviewed Lord Turnbulls contribution executive directorship at another FTSE company, subject to British Land and independence over the years, and recommended to the Board that Board approval.
External appointments of the Directors are disclosed in it is appropriate for him to remain in office and the Board is satisfied their biographies and fees earned by Executive Directors are disclosed that he remains independent B.
2.3. on page 101 of the Remuneration Report.
D. 1.2 We continue to have a strong mix of experienced individuals on the Board, The Directors are required to notify the Company of any potential with the majority being Non-Executive Directors who are independent conflicts of interest that may affect them in their roles as Directors of and can offer an external perspective on the business and constructively British Land.
All potential conflicts of interest are recorded and reviewed challenge the Executive Directors, particularly when developing the by the full Board at least annually.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting their agreed The Non-Executive Directors are kept well informed of the key goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting of performance.
They developments in the business by both the Executive Directors and other satisfy themselves of the integrity of financial information and that senior executives, through regular reports and presentations.
Reports internal controls and systems of risk management are effective.
include a Management Report delivered by the Chief Executive at each Board meeting and updates on the activities of the Risk and Sustainability The Board culture is one of openness and constructive debate: the Committees.
Directors voice their opinions in a relaxed and respectful environment, allowing coherent discussion.
The Chairman is responsible for maintaining Throughout the year presentations and reports on specific aspects of this culture.
He does so by ensuring information of an appropriate quality the business and individual assets are also delivered, along with updates is provided in a timely manner before Board meetings: the opportunity to on the regulatory and external environment.
properly consider such information in advance leads to focused discussion in the boardroom.
When running Board meetings the Chairman maintains Care is taken to ensure that information is circulated in good time a collaborative atmosphere and ensures that all Directors contribute before Board and Committee meetings whenever possible, and that to debates.
The Chairman arranges informal meetings and events reports are presented clearly and contain the appropriate level of detail throughout the year to help build constructive relationships between to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
It is the Company Secretarys the Board members.
role to facilitate effective information flows between the Board and its Committees, and between senior management and Non-Executive The high calibre of debate and the participation of all Directors, Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the and Non-Executive, allow the Board to utilise the experience and skills Board on governance matters, through the Chairman B.
5.2. of the individual Directors to their maximum potential and make well-considered decisions that are in the best interest of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors are therefore able to monitor the management of the business and the implementation of the strategic The Board considers that Aubrey Adams, Simon Borrows, Lynn Gladden, aims effectively, and are able to assess the suitability of the current William Jackson, Tim Score, Lord Turnbull and Laura Wade-Gery are strategy and the performance of the Chairman and Executive Directors independent.
In making this determination, the Board has considered B.
5.1. whether each Director is independent in character and judgement, and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to Board evaluation affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement B.
The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is reviewed annually, with an independent, externally facilitated review being conducted at The Board believes that the Non-Executive Directors biographies least once every three years.
The last external review was conducted demonstrate that they are of the stature and experience required to in 2015 B.
6.2.. properly perform their roles as independent Non-Executive Directors.
Following this years Board evaluation, the Board believes each NonAn internal review of the Board and its Committees was conducted in Executive Director standing for re-election at the next AGM continues to 2016 by the Company Secretary by way of questionnaire and covered effectively fulfil and remains committed to their role within British Land.
the following areas: i role, organisation and a composition of the Board The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are and its Committees: ii agenda: iii corporate governance: iv quality available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM of information: v monitoring Company performance: and vi Board B.
The review concluded that overall the Board operated very effectively with a continuous, high standard of performance throughout the year B.
6.1.. British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 St Go rateg verna ic n Rep ce an or d r t emuneration GOVERNANCE REVIEW CONTINUED During the year the Chairman met each Non-Executive Director Accountability individually to discuss their contribution to the Board and the Senior The Board is responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts Independent Director met with the other Non-Executive Directors with and, as confirmed in the Directors responsibility statement, the Board Executive Directors present to discuss the performance of the Chairman believes that this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, A.
The Remuneration Committee was provided with balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary an appraisal of the Chief Executives performance by the Chairman, to assess British Lands position, performance, business model and and an appraisal of the performance of the Executive Directors by strategy C. 1.1.
The basis on which the Company creates and the Chief Executive.
preserves value over the long term is described in the strategic report C. 1.2.
Board training and development British Land provides for all Directors a tailored and thorough induction, The Directors Responsibility Statement is set out on page 113 including the opportunity to meet with senior executives to be given an overview of their specific areas of responsibility within the business, Strategic report see pages 1 to 63 and the opportunity to visit the Companys key properties and developments B.
The Annual Report and Accounts is compiled by the relevant responsible individuals across the Company.
Specific sections are reviewed by The Company also offers Directors opportunities to update and refresh Department Heads and Executive Committee members as appropriate, their knowledge on an ongoing basis, to enable them to continue fulfilling ensuring that all key stakeholders across the business are involved.
their roles as Board members and Committee members effectively.
The Executive Directors are closely involved in drafting and reviewing This includes training opportunities and further visits to the Companys their relevant sections of the Report, before formally signing them off.
In 2015 16 the Board held meetings at the Finance, Investor Relations and Company Secretariat conduct a robust Companys properties: Broadgate Estate and Paddington Central due diligence process, verifying key statements made within the Annual in addition to the Companys head office.
Updates on the external Report and Accounts.
The full Annual Report and Accounts is then environment and regulatory matters are delivered to the Board reviewed thoroughly by the Audit Committee, before it is presented and relevant committees by external speakers, including corporate to the Board for approval.
The procedure undertaken to enable the Board to provide the fair, balanced and understandable confirmation to shareholders has been Key areas discussed and reviewed by the Board reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The process is enhanced by a specific in 2016 meeting between the Chief Financial Officer, Head of Strategy and Investor Relations and the Group Financial Controller and their relevant outcomes of the Board Strategy Days and approval of strategy: team members to review and document the key considerations approval of risk appetite: undertaken to ensure that information presented is fair, balanced and principal risks faced by the Company: understandable.
A report detailing those considerations was reviewed reports of the activities of the Audit including risk, Remuneration by the Audit Committee alongside a summary of the detailed procedures and Nomination Committees: undertaken and the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Chief Executives Management Reports: quarterly updates on the business and external environment: Risk management and internal control updates on the portfolio, including developments, acquisitions The Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks and disposals: it is willing to take in achieving the Companys strategic objectives.
updates on financing: results of the Board performance evaluation: The maintenance of the Companys risk management and internal reappointment of Directors at the AGM: control systems is the responsibility of the Board.
Oversight of the conflicts of interest: effectiveness of the risk management and internal control system approval of year end results, the Annual Report and Accounts, has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
A top-down risk review the AGM Circular and dividends: is combined with a complementary bottom-up approach to ensure that people: development and succession planning: risks are fully considered.
As well as complying with the Code, the best health & safety: practice recommendations in Guidance for Risk Management, Internal sustainability: Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting have been investor relations reports: adopted and the Companys internal control framework has been Remuneration policy: assessed against the internationally recognised COSO Internal Control cybersecurity: and Integrated Framework.
The latter assessment showed that all key information technology.
control elements are in place.
Appropriate internal control and risk management processes apply to all entities which British Land administers, including all material joint ventures and funds C. 2.3.
British Lands approach to risk, including the roles of the Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee in setting risk appetite and monitoring risk exposure, is described in the Managing risk in delivering our strategy section of the report on pages 57 to 63 C. 2.1.
Formal and transparent arrangements exist for considering how corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles are applied and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditor.
76 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Viability and going concern Investment: sticking to our strategy To read our viability statement see page 58 C. 2.2 Executive Directors are involved throughout the investment process and alignment with the Boards strategy is considered from the The Group has considerable undrawn debt facilities and cash deposits initial discussion of a transaction, right through to final approval.
in excess of current drawn banking facilities.
There is substantial All new investment opportunities are discussed at weekly headroom against the covenants for its unsecured banking facilities.
1 deal sourcing meetings, attended by investment executives.
It also benefits from a diverse and secure income stream from leases Potentially attractive deals that are in line with strategy with long average lease terms.
are selected to be investigated and analysed in detail by project teams.
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement, the Directors believe that the Project teams assess whether investment opportunities Group is well placed to manage its financing and other business risks should be pursued, conducting detailed property and 2 satisfactorily, and have a reasonable expectation that the Company and corporate due diligence: ongoing dialogue with the relevant the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for at least Executive Committee members takes place throughout 12 months from the date of the Annual Report.
They therefore consider it the process.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements C. 1.3.
Investment opportunities with potential are presented for 3 Investment Committee approval.
Depending on the size Taxation and nature of a transaction, the Investment Committee Our principles of good governance extend to our responsible approach can approve the proposed transaction outright or to tax.
It remains important to our stakeholders that the Companys recommend it for approval by the full Board.
approach to tax is aligned to the long term values and strategy of the Group.
The Groups tax strategy is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Investment opportunities are presented to the full Board Officer, with close involvement of Executive Directors and senior for approval, when required.
The Audit Committee is presented with an annual tax update.
The Groups internal control system is built on the following fundamental principles, and is subject to review by Internal Audit: Employees A defined schedule of matters reserved for approval by the full Board: Having expert people at British Land is one of the four core elements A detailed authorisation process: no material commitments are entered of our business model.
This applies both to the individuals on the Board into without thorough review and approval by more than one who have responsibility for leading the Company and to the employees authorised person: who work throughout British Land.
Formal documentation of all significant transactions: A robust system of business and financial planning: includes cash flow We encourage a high degree of employee involvement in the Company and profitability forecasting and scenario analysis performed on major and provide regular information on business activities and explanations corporate, property and financing proposals: of strategy through Company meetings, training sessions, internal A robust process for property investment appraisals: communications and an annual Company conference.
Employee Monitoring of key outcomes, particularly expenditure and performance feedback is also strongly encouraged.
of significant investments, against budget and forecast: Clearly defined policies and review of actual performance against policies The Operations Committee OpCo, which is comprised of senior Benchmarking of property performance against external sources such individuals across British Lands business functions, assists the as Investment Property Databank: Executive Committee with operational matters arising in the day-to-day Key controls testing: management of the business.
The OpCo forms a link between the A comprehensive property and corporate insurance programme: and Executive Committee and wider teams of employees, enhancing the flow A formal whistle-blowing policy.
of information around the Company, both upwards and downwards, to improve the strategic and tactical decisions that are made.
The aim of The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system the OpCo is to strengthen collaboration across the Company in driving of internal control over financial reporting annually, including the initiatives that help us achieve our objectives.
The OpCo also plays an systems of control for material joint ventures and funds.
During the increasingly important role in the development of the operational course of its review of the risk management and internal control systems leadership areas of our business, such as technology.
over financial reporting, the Audit Committee has not identified, nor been advised of, a failing or weakness which it has determined to be British Land continues to implement a number of initiatives to help significant C. 2.3. develop our employees and grow internal talent, reinforcing the Company culture of excellence and embedding values and behaviours.
A number of policies are in place to ensure that the Company not only As a relatively small company in terms of number of employees we are meets its legal obligations, but also behaves ethically, acts with integrity proud to be able to invest in our people on an individual basis, taking and protects its assets from the unlawful activities of others.
These time to understand specific requirements to progress careers.
include an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, a Competition Policy and a Fraud Awareness Policy.
All employees are made aware of the We have well-established all-employee share schemes to incentivise policies and procedures in place, with understanding enhanced by staff employees at all levels in the Company and align their interests with communications and training.
those of shareholders by building a holding of British Land shares.
Separate pension fund reports are made available to members.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 St Go rateg verna ic n Rep ce an or d r t emuneration GOVERNANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Staff turnover Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has recommended that we seek approval this year of a new Remuneration Policy, as our Matching Share Plan 2016 2015 2014 expires this year.
We are not intending to renew the Matching Share Plan.
Head office 44 19% 31 12% 32 15% Amendments to our Long-Term Incentive Plan are proposed to deliver a simplified remuneration structure with one long term incentive Broadgate Estates 53 15% 28 11% 42 20% arrangement.
The new Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 92 to 98.
Total average 98 17% 59 12% 74 17% Relations with shareholders The benefit of diversity, both on the Board and throughout the Company, The Board remains committed to maintaining open channels continues to be a key consideration when searching for candidates for of communication with shareholders.
It is important to us that Board and other appointments.
In addition, the Company continues to shareholders understand the Companys strategy and objectives: support the Pathways to Property programme, which aims to increase these must be explained clearly and shareholders feedback must diversity within the property industry as a whole by attracting students be heard and the issues and questions raised properly considered.
from a variety of backgrounds into the property sector.
British Land has a dedicated Investor Relations team which reports to Funding to charity and good causes the Chief Financial Officer.
Communication with investors and analysts Our Local Charter sets out how we build trust by supporting successful is an ongoing process throughout the year.
This includes regular local communities, and develop skills and opportunities to help local scheduled Investor Relations events, summarised in the box on the page people and businesses grow.
Our Charitable and Community Funding opposite, one-to-one and group meetings with Executive Directors and Guidelines set out how we allocate funding, with a particular focus on tours of our properties, as well as regular contact with the Investor initiatives close to our assets that have a positive impact on young people, Relations team.
During the year, the Chief Executive, Chief Financial education, employment and training.
Both documents can be found on Officer and our Investor Relations team met with representatives from our website at www.
We periodically commission an independent investor perception study which is presented to the Board.
The Charity and Community Committee, which approves all spend under the Charity and Community Budget, is chaired by a Senior Retail Asset The full Board plans to attend the AGM, which provides an opportunity Manager, and reports to the Executive Committee on an annual basis.
for all shareholders to question the Directors in person.
Donations during the year totalled 1,371,044, compared with 1,287,500 Significant emphasis is placed on the importance of feeding shareholder in the previous year.
British Land does not make any donations to views, both positive and negative, back to the Board.
relations report which includes direct market feedback on activity during the period is presented to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors Health and Safety at each scheduled Board meeting for discussion.
Shareholder opinions We have retained formal recognition of our focus on health and safety are also given due consideration throughout the annual Strategy Days through a successful audit of our OHSAS 18001 accreditation.
We E. 1.1 E. 1.2. continue to improve our approach to health and safety management to ensure that we consistently achieve best practice across all activities in the business construction, managed portfolio and head office to deliver Places People Prefer to our employees and our customers.
RIDDOR Year ended 31 March Total RIDDOR Accidents Accident Frequency Rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 Construction 3 8 0.14 0.19 per 100,000 hours worked Retail 23 19 0.01 0.01 per 100,000 footfall Offices 6 2 18.85 7.50 per 100,000 workers Head Office 0 0 0 0 per 100,000 full time equivalents Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013.
78 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Key investor relations activities during the year included Full-year results presentation.
Investor property conferences, London June 2015 and Netherlands.
Q1 interim management statement and call.
Retail capital markets day, London.
September 2015 Private Client roadshow, London.
Investor property tour, The Leadenhall Building.
November 2015 Half-year results roadshow, London.
December 2015 Analyst and investor tour, Broadgate.
January 2016 Trading statement, investor video and call.
March 2016 Private Client roadshow, London.
British Land aims to be informative and accessible to all shareholders.
For results and other key announcements we provide information on a timely basis to both retail and institutional shareholders.
A number of case studies, covering topics that range from profiles of our key assets to sustainability activities, are also available to view online.
Shareholders can ask questions at any time via our contacts page on the corporate website.
com contacts We are pleased with the level of engagement with shareholders achieved during the year and the Board also recognises the important contribution of providers of capital other than shareholders, namely our lenders and bond holders.
We maintain a regular and open dialogue with our lenders to help us understand their investment appetite and criteria.
Lord Turnbull, Senior Independent Director, is available to address any concerns shareholders may wish to raise other than via the usual channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors A.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79
