Governance and remuneration REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We are committed to monitoring the Groups control environment and financial reporting processes Welcome to the report of the Audit Committee.
The key areas of focus for the Committee this year have been reviewing and advising the Board on the viability statement included in the Annual Report and Accounts, scrutinising the process for valuation of investment and development properties by the Groups external valuers and overseeing the Internal Audit tender.
Composition The Committee comprises Aubrey Adams, Simon Borrows and myself, as Committee Chairman.
C. 3.1 Each of the Committee members is considered to be appropriately qualified and experienced to fulfil their role.
For the purposes of the Code, I am the member of the Committee nominated as having significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
Tim Score Chairman of the Audit Committee Activities During the year the Committee has undertaken each of its principal responsibilities, receiving relevant reports from the external valuers, the internal and external auditors, the Risk Committee and management Audit Committee members attendance during 1 and challenging the validity of accounting assumptions and judgements.
the year ended 31 March 2016 The table on page 81 details the principal responsibilities of the Tim Score 5 5 Committee and key areas of focus throughout the year.
Aubrey Adams 5 5 Simon Borrows 5 5 The Committee performs a detailed review of the content and tone of 1 During 2016 senior executives were invited to attend and or present at the annual and half-yearly press releases and the Annual Report and meetings of the Committee including the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Accounts, as well as trading updates.
The Committee has satisfied itself Strategy and Investor Relations, the Financial Controller, the Head of Tax, the that controls over the accuracy and consistency of information presented Head of Financial Reporting and the Head of Financial Planning and Analysis in the Annual Report and Accounts are robust, and has confirmed to the and Risk Committee Secretary.
Board that it believes this Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced A.
An assurance opinion is obtained for the Company from  LLP PwC over selected sustainability data and a verification exercise is performed by management to ensure consistency and accuracy of information presented.
Terms of Reference In addition to regular committee meetings additional time is spent by The Committees Terms of Reference, can be found on the Companys members of the Audit Committee meeting with executive management website at www.
com committees to understand key issues.
The Committee regularly meets with PwC C. 3.2 C. 3.3 and Internal Audit without management present and the Committee Chairman meets privately with the external valuers.
80 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal responsibilities Key areas discussed and reviewed by the of the Committee Committee during 2016 Monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements Results, commentary and announcements.
Reporting and all formal announcements relating to the Companys and External Key accounting judgements, including valuations.
financial performance: reviewing significant financial reporting Audit Changes to accounting policies.
issues, judgements and estimates, including the consistency, Going concern and the viability statement.
quality and appropriateness of accounting policies and the quality and completeness of disclosures.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment in relation to the annual report C. 3.4.
Making recommendations to the Board regarding the reappointment of the external auditor and approving the external External auditor effectiveness.
auditors remuneration and terms of engagement C. 3.7.
External auditor reports on planning the half-yearly review Monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, and the full-year audit, including the final opinion.
Reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable.
Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance.
Monitoring and reviewing the valuation process.
Effectiveness of the external valuers.
Valuations Reviewing assumptions and methodology.
The quality of the valuation process and judgements at half year and year end.
Monitoring the external valuers competence and effectiveness.
Valuer presentations to the Committee.
Overseeing the internal control environment and risk Risk register, including identification of the Groups principal Risk and management systems on behalf of the Board.
risks and movement in exposures.
internal Monitoring the Companys risk exposure and recommending Status of key risk indicators including any breaches of control the Companys risk appetite to the Board for approval.
Overseeing the assessment of the principal risks and Activities of the Risk Committee, including review of its minutes.
Effectiveness of internal control systems.
Reviewing the risk management disclosures on the Groups Responses to audit findings and recommendations for control approach to risk in the half-yearly and annual reports.
improvements, including reviewing the External Audit Reviewing the whistle-blowing policy and its implementation management letter.
An annual fraud risk assessment.
The insurance programme for property, development and corporate risks.
Approval of arrangements for the provision of internal audit Annual internal audit plan, including consideration of its Internal Audit services and any termination of such arrangements.
alignment to the principal risks, consideration of emerging areas of risk, coverage across the Group and its joint ventures, Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys and review of the Groups processes and controls.
Internal Audit function, including its plans, level of resources and budget.
KPMGs execution of the internal audit plan and reviewing the resultant audit reports and findings.
Reviewing internal audit reports, recommendations and progress in implementation of those recommendations.
Coordination between Internal Audit and External Audit.
Internal Audit reports: payroll, tax compliance, IT, The Leadenhall Building and Broadgate joint ventures, procurement phase 2, Broadgate Estates, leasing process, anti-bribery and corruption, key financial controls, treasury.
Internal Audit charter, defining its role and responsibilities.
Reviewing the Audit Committees effectiveness and its Terms The Committees Terms of Reference.
Considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting Maintenance of the Groups REIT status.
standards and the Listing Rules.
Review of PwCs Sustainability Assurance Report.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED significant issues in relation to financial statements Internal Audit The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to The Companys Internal Audit function during the year was outsourced be important by virtue of their size, complexity, level of judgement to KPMG, who reported regularly to the Committee.
The Committee required and potential impact on the financial statements and wider monitored the performance of Internal Audit throughout the year, as business model.
Identification of the issues deemed to be significant well as performing an annual review of its effectiveness.
The Committee takes place following open, frank and challenging discussion between believes KPMG discharged its duties effectively C. 3.6. the Committee members, with input from the Chief Financial Officer, PwC and Internal Audit and other relevant British Land employees.
KPMG has performed the Internal Audit function since it was outsourced in 2012.
It was decided that the Internal Audit function should be put out A particular area of focus for the Committee has been the viability to tender in March 2016 to facilitate evaluation of different internal audit statement which is included within the strategic report for the first approaches.
Following a competitive process, Ernst & Young LLP EY time this year on page 58.
The Committee has discussed the form was appointed.
EY will report regularly to the Committee and it is and content of the statement, and the analysis carried out to support it, envisaged that its performance will be monitored in a similar way.
with management and PwC throughout the year.
The Committee has confirmed to the Board that it believes the viability statement adequately Policy on PwC providing non-audit services C. 3.8 considers the Groups principal risks, covers an appropriate period, is With respect to non-audit services provided by PwC, the following supported by the assessment prepared by management and includes framework was in place during the year.
disclosure of all relevant material assumptions made.
Audit related services: audit related services include formal reporting The significant issues considered by the Committee during the year relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and various work ended 31 March 2016 are detailed below, alongside the actions taken in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
Where the external auditor must by the Committee to address these issues C. 3.8. carry out the work because of their office, the external auditor is selected.
In other circumstances the selection depends on which firm is best suited.
significant issues in relation to financial statements How these issues were addressed by the Committee considered by the Committee during the year The valuation of investment and development The external valuers presented their reports to the Committee and were Valuation of properties, which is conducted by external asked to highlight any significant judgements or disagreements with investment and valuers, is inherently subjective as it is made management.
Valuation certificates and outcomes were reviewed and development on the basis of assumptions made by the assumptions challenged, with particularly rigorous scrutiny this year properties valuers which may not prove to be accurate.
given the lower volumes of evidence setting transactions, compared The outcome of the valuation is significant to recent periods.
to the Group in terms of investment decisions, results and remuneration.
Risk is encountered through property and The Committee reviewed management papers on key judgements, Accounting for financing transactions, as large and non-standard including those for significant transactions, as well as the external transactions accounting entries can be required.
auditors report presented following the conclusion of the audit.
The appropriateness of preparing the Group The Committee reviewed managements analysis supporting the going Going concern financial statements on a going concern basis.
This included consideration of forecast statement cash flows, availability of committed debt facilities and expected covenant headroom.
PwC reported to the Committee the results of testing performed on managements analysis.
Whether the statement appropriately reflects the The Committee considered whether the assessment performed by Viability statement prospects of the Group and covers an appropriate management adequately reflects the Groups principal risks as disclosed on period of time.
pages 59 to 63: whether the period covered by the statement is reasonable in light of the industry the Group operates in and is a fair reflection of the forecast period typically considered by management: and whether the assumptions made and sensitivities identified represent severe but plausible scenarios in the context of solvency or liquidity.
Maintenance of the Groups REIT status through The Committee reviews compliance with the REIT tests annually.
REIT status compliance with certain conditions has a Management presented the methodology and results of the REIT tests, significant impact on the Groups results.
highlighting any change in long term trends and the current level of headroom.
For certain transactions, judgement is applied The Committee and PwC considered the appropriateness of the accounting Judgements affecting by management as to whether, and to what treatment applied by management in relation to revenue recognition.
The revenue recognition extent, they should be treated as revenue for Committee and PwC also considered the scope of the accounting standard the financial year.
and the reasonableness of the judgement made.
82 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Sustainability assurance: the selection depends on which firm is best Valuations suited and is reviewed on a five yearly basis.
Currently the external The external valuation of British Lands portfolio is a key determinant auditor provides an assurance opinion over selected sustainability data.
of the Groups balance sheet, performance and senior managements Tax advisory: the selection depends on which firm is best suited in the remuneration.
In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee circumstances.
adopts a rigorous approach to monitoring and reviewing the valuation General consulting: the external auditor is not selected to provide general process and the effectiveness of the Groups valuers, Knight Frank and consultancy services except in certain limited circumstances, and then CBRE.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the external valuers only after consideration that they are best placed to provide the service biannually, focusing on a qualitative analysis of capital values, yield and that their independence and objectivity will not be compromised.
benchmarking, availability of comparable market evidence and major outliers to subsector movements.
The following commitment protocol operated throughout the year and applied to any engagement for conducting other work excluding audit The valuers present directly to the Committee at the half-yearly and half-yearly reporting performed by PwC: and annual reviews of results, including providing confirmation of the The total non-audit fees are limited to 70% of the audit fees in any valuation process, market conditions and significant judgements made.
The audit and non-audit fees for the three-year average PwC reviews the valuations and valuation process, having full access are calculated in line with the methodology set out in the 2014 to the valuers to determine that due process has been followed and EU Regulations and include fees for joint ventures and funds: appropriate information used.
It reports its findings to the Committee.
Audit Committee approval is required where there were any doubts The valuation process is also subject to regular review by Internal Audit, as to whether the external auditor had a conflict of interest: and the most recent being undertaken in 2013, with another one planned for Approval by the Audit Committee Chairman is required for each later this calendar year.
In addition I, as the Committee Chairman, meet additional project over 0.1m in value where the cumulative fees for privately with the valuers.
non-audit work are projected to exceed 50% of the audit fee in any financial year.
During the year no project approvals by the Audit For the valuation of the Groups wholly-owned assets, the Company Committee Chairman were required.
has fixed fee arrangements with Knight Frank and CBRE, in line with the recommendations of the Carsberg Committee Report.
Copies of Effectiveness of the External Audit process the valuation certificates of Knight Frank and CBRE can be found on The Committee places great importance on ensuring a high quality, the corporate website at www.
com reports effective External Audit process.
Following best practice and in accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee annually reviews Identication and evaluation of commercial risks and the audit requirements of the Group, for the business and in the context of related control objectives the external environment.
The Committee also conducts an annual review The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the effectiveness of the performance of the external auditor and considers its independence, of sound risk management and internal control systems.
It fulfils this compliance with relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical standards and role by overseeing the activities of and receiving reports from the Risk objectivity.
C. 3.8 Committee and monitoring the risk management processes in place and the activities of the Internal Audit function, including its reporting on the Following its appointment in 2014, PwC successfully completed its first effectiveness of controls.
The Risk Committee minutes are circulated to audit last year.
The Committee reviewed PwCs performance this year and the Committee for review, with any significant matters highlighted for was content with the quality of the audit it had delivered.
Twice yearly the principal risks, which are derived from an reviewed PwCs proposals for the audit and is confident that appropriate assessment of the risk register, are presented to the Committee, along plans were put in place to carry out an effective and high quality audit.
with commentary on changes in the exposure to these risks in the period.
No significant issues were raised during the course of the audit.
PwC Annually, a report on the effectiveness of internal controls and the risk confirmed to the Committee that it maintained appropriate internal management system is prepared by Internal Audit for presentation to the safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.
Internal Audit and the Risk Committee work closely together considered and approved PwCs assessment of its independence and to ensure that identified risk areas are incorporated in the Internal Audit has recommended its reappointment to the Board, approval of which programme and similarly, findings of Internal Audit reviews are taken will be sought from shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
into account in identifying and evaluating risks within the business.
British Land maintains a framework of controls related to key financial The Committee has agreed to consider the need for a competitive tender processes and management of the associated risks.
The effectiveness for the role of external auditor every five years, with a competitive tender of such controls is reviewed annually, either by Internal Audit or as part taking place at least every ten years.
To the extent that the auditor did of the year-end external audit.
not rotate earlier through this process, the Company will rotate audit partner, as required by legislation.
There are no contractual obligations which would restrict the selection of a different auditor.
The Company has complied with the relevant parts of the Competition and Markets Authority Final Order on the statutory audit market for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Tim Score Chairman of the Audit Committee British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83
