GOVERNANCE 107 Report of the Audit Committee Membership Having taken all these matters into account, the Committee concluded that PwC had performed their audit effectively, Throughout 2016, the Committee consisted of Stuart Corbyn, efficiently and to a high quality.
Accordingly, the Committee has Simon Fraser, Richard Dakin and Claudia Arney under the recommended to the Board that PwC be re-appointed as Auditor chairmanship of Stephen Young.
All Committee members are to the Group.
considered independent by the Board, having no day-to-day involvement with the Company and, with the exception of Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures for Stuart Corbyn, not having been with the Company for more than safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the nine years.
The Boards position regarding Stuart is discussed external Auditor.
In assessing this matter the Committee on page 81.
Due to his position as Managing Director of Capital noted the following: Advisors Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of CBRE Limited, Each year the Auditor issues the Committee with an Richard Dakin does not take part in the Committees Independence Letter which confirms their independence and considerations regarding the valuation of the Groups compliance with the Auditing Practices Board APB Ethical property portfolio.
The letter reflects the Auditors views on the The composition of the Committee was a matter considered following matters: as part of the annual assessment of the Committee.
The Any relationships of which they are aware that, in their response supported the Boards view that, taken as a whole, professional judgement, may reasonably be thought to the Committee has competence relevant to the property sector.
bear on their independence and the objectivity of the audit The Board is also satisfied that, as a qualified accountant, engagement partner and staff.
Stephen Young has appropriate recent and relevant financial experience to discharge his duties as Chairman of the Committee.
Any services that the Auditor has provided to the Group in addition to the audit of the consolidated financial statements.
If required, the Committee has access to further financial expertise, at the Companys expense.
The total amount of fees that the Auditor has charged the Group for the provision of services during the Roles and responsibilities reporting period.
The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website.
The amounts of any future services that have been contracted for, or where a written proposal has Meetings been submitted.
The Committee met four times during the year to discharge its The Company operates a policy under which the Auditor responsibilities.
These were attended by the Groups external cannot be appointed for any non-audit work where the fee Auditor and members of the Groups senior management when exceeds 25,000 without the appointment being approved by invited.
Two additional meetings are held each year with the the Audit Committee.
There have been no such appointments Groups independent property valuers CBRE to consider the during 2016. valuation of the property portfolio.
Following each meeting, the Chairman updates the Board on the matters discussed Reviewed the tenure of the external Auditor and the lead and the decisions made.
PwC were appointed the Groups Auditor in 2014 and Craig Hughes has been the lead audit partner since Work of the Committee then.
In accordance with the current regulations the audit During the year, the Committees work covered the will be re-tendered every ten years.
There are no contractual following areas: restrictions in relation to the Groups choice of external Auditor.
External Auditor Significant financial judgements Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit.
Considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies, The assessment took into account the views of both assumptions, judgements and estimates used in the preparation management and the Auditor and was supported by a of the financial statements.
In discharging this responsibility, questionnaire that highlighted the key areas.
The Committee the Committee routinely considers the potential for fraud also reviewed the audit plan, which was focussed on risk and arising from revenue recognition and the overriding of controls materiality, and considered the quality of the planning, the by management.
In addition the following significant financial extent to which it was tailored to the business and its ability to judgements were identified and the procedures set out below respond to any changes in the business.
Finally, the Committee carried out: noted the fees paid to the Auditor for both the statutory audit and non-audit services which are set out below.
Valuation of the Groups property portfolio The Committee considers this to be the major area of 2016 2015 judgement in determining the accuracy of the financial 000 000 statements as it is a major component in determining the Audit of Derwent London plc and subsidiaries 330 320 Groups net asset value.
In view of this, meetings were held Total audit services 330 320 with the Groups external valuers before both the interim and Review of interim results 39 38 final results to consider the portfolio valuation contained Other assurance services therein.
These meetings were led by members of the Non-audit services Committee with relevant and current expertise in property Total other services 39 38 valuation.
Key matters discussed during the meetings include Total fees 369 358 the assumptions underlying the valuation, any valuation which required a greater level of judgement than normal, for example development properties, and any valuation movements that were not broadly in line with that of the IPD benchmark.
The assumptions were also discussed with the Auditors who have their own valuation experts and carry out their own Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 108 GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee continued independent tests.
This year the valuation of the Groups Risk management and internal control Hampstead Road property was the subject of particularly Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal detailed scrutiny.
These procedures enabled the Committee financial controls.
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for to be satisfied with the assumptions and judgements used the effective management of risk across the Group but has in the valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
delegated responsibility for this review to the Audit Committee.
The review of internal non-financial controls is delegated to Taxation and REIT compliance the Risk Committee.
In conducting its review, the Committee The Committee was aware that, should the Group not noted that no matters had been raised by PwC as a result of comply with the REIT regulations, it could incur tax penalties their controls testing undertaken as part of the annual audit.
or ultimately be expelled from the REIT regime which would The Committee also reviewed the Groups Risk Register, have a significant effect on the financial statements.
The together with the controls that constitute the system of internal Committee noted the frequency with which compliance with financial controls and the evidence that they had operated the regulations was reported to the Board and considered the effectively over the period.
No areas of weakness were margin by which the Group complied.
Based on this and the identified and, as a result of the review, the Committee level of headroom shown in the latest Group forecasts the confirmed to the Board that the system of internal financial Committee agreed that, once again, no further action was controls had operated effectively for the year ended required for the current year.
31 December 2016 and up to 28 February 2017.
Borrowings and derivatives Internal audit The valuation of the 2019 convertible debt and interest rate Considered the need for an internal audit function and swaps was seen as an area of elevated risk.
The Committee concluded that, in view of the close involvement of the noted that the valuations were carried out by an independent Directors in the day-to-day operations, the scale and third party which had valued the instruments in previous complexity of the organisation and the focussed nature of the years and that the Auditor used its own treasury specialists Groups business, there is no need to establish an internal audit to re-perform the valuation and to assess the reasonableness function at the present time.
However, external assurance may thereof.
The Auditor subsequently confirmed that no be sought in particular areas that are identified as higher risk.
issues had arisen relating to the valuation.
The Committee was satisfied with the level of assurance gained from Other matters addressed by the Committee these procedures.
The Company was contacted by the FRC regarding its disclosure in the 2015 Report and Accounts relating to the Fair, balanced and understandable accounting for conversion of the 2.75% unsecured convertible Reviewed the Groups annual report and accounts to consider bonds 2016.
The Committee assisted the Company in whether, taken as a whole, they were fair, balanced and responding to the request for further information following understandable and whether they provided the information which the matter was satisfactorily concluded with no necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and adjustment being required.
Additional disclosures are performance, business model and strategy.
In carrying out this included in the 2016 annual report.
review, and subsequently reporting its opinion to the Board, the Committee had regard to the following: T he FRCs review was based on the Companys annual report and accounts and does not benefit from detailed knowledge of The adequacy of the systems for bringing all the relevant its business or an understanding of the underlying transactions information to the attention of the preparers of the report entered into.
Their correspondence provides no assurance that and accounts and the adequacy of the controls operating the report and accounts are correct in all material respects: the over the systems.
FRCs role is not to verify the information provided but to Whether the procedures for obtaining assurance over the consider compliance with reporting requirements.
accuracy of the information were sufficient.
Monitored the integrity of the Groups interim and annual The consistency of the reports within themselves and with financial statements and the two business updates published other reports and whether they are in accordance with the during the year and reviewed the significant financial reporting information received by the Board during the year.
Whether the statements were written in straightforward Reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee.
language, without undue repetition and with the use of any Noted that the accounts for the Groups pension schemes had adjusted measures adequately explained.
been audited and that no matters had been raised.
Following its review, the Committee was satisfied that the The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions Groups report and accounts, taken as a whole, present a of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the fair, balanced and understandable overview and provide the financial year under review.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Stephen G. Young Viability statement Chairman of the Audit Committee Considered the appropriateness of the Groups viability 28 February 2017 statement and going concern assumption and advised the Board accordingly.
