GOVERNANCE 77 Corporate governance Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Groups Corporate Governance report for 2016.
The latest update of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Code was published in April 2016 and is effective for accounting periods starting after July 2016.
Accordingly, Derwent London was subject to the 2014 version of the Code for the whole of 2016 and I am pleased to report that it has, once again, complied in full with the provisions of The Code.
The Companys position regarding the independence of Stuart Corbyn is discussed on page 81.
Whilst 2016 was, as anticipated last year, a relatively quiet year for legislative or regulatory changes, a number of initiatives were commenced that could lead to substantial changes to the governance framework over the next few years.
Most of these have their roots in recent high profile corporate misconduct and have the intention of restoring responsible capitalism.
Robert A. Rayne The Government is playing an important part in this and its initial Chairman inquiry covered a wide range of governance matters including directors duties, executive pay, board composition and gender balance in executive positions.
This led to the publishing of a Green Paper on Corporate Governance Reform in November 2016 which consulted on executive pay and improving stakeholder representation.
We wait to see how any changes arising from this consultation are enacted.
At Derwent London we recognise that our licence to operate is a valuable asset that is essential to running a sustainable business and we strive to maintain a corporate infrastructure that deserves the trust of all our stakeholders.
This not only requires a system whereby decision making is effective and efficient, but also the Key areas of activity in 2016 right culture to exist throughout the Company.
As mentioned Reviewed the new requirements introduced in my letter last year, a companys culture is now seen as a by the latest update to the UK Corporate fundamental factor in determining a companys behaviour, a Governance Code to ensure that the development that was evidenced by the publication of the FRCs Groups procedures had been adapted report Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards in July 2016. sufficiently to ensure continued compliance.
Whilst measuring a companys culture is difficult, it was pleasing Monitored the ongoing consultations and to note that in the most recent staff survey, words chosen to discussions regarding board diversity describe the culture at Derwent London were very much aligned and their broadening terms of reference.
with the tone that we, as the Board, promote.
The potential impact on the Groups board Another matter that continues to be the subject of regular refreshment programme and succession reviews is board diversity.
Following on from the Davies review, planning was noted.
the Hampton-Alexander Review has established a new target of Considered the requirements of both the 33% for women representation on Boards by 2020.
At the same new Market Abuse Regulations and the time the Parker Review considered the wider aspects of Modern Slavery Act 2015 and introduced boardroom diversity.
The benefits of a diversified board are well procedures to ensure compliance.
documented and maintaining a properly balanced board is a cornerstone of effective governance.
In this regard, we were Reviewed the results of the Board Appraisal pleased to welcome Claudia Arney and Cilla Snowball as the exercise and identified changes that would latest additions to the Board.
However, to preserve this critical improve the performance of the Board.
balance, ensuring that the Board has the correct mix of skills, Ensured that the Groups risk management experience and knowledge must be given at least as much process remained effective given the weight when recruiting new directors as meeting prescribed changing risks facing the Group.
levels of the various forms of diversity.
This subject is discussed further in Our people on page 68 and on page 82.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 78 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued New legislation Corporate governance in focus During the year we completed the process to ensure that we comply with the Modern Slavery Act and our policy statement Governance framework can be found on our website by following the link from the The Groups governance framework is homepage.
We have also revised our procedures regarding designed primarily to ensure its compliance inside information and directors share dealings to reflect the with the Main Principles and Code Provisions new requirements introduced by the Market Abuse Regulations.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code and These changes included establishing a new committee of the in addition to make sure that the Group Board, a Disclosure Committee, to assist the Company in complies with the requirements of the wider identifying inside information and maintaining the insider list.
legislative environment in which it operates.
The framework also establishes a code of Future developments conduct which helps promote the Groups The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has stated that they open and transparent culture throughout do not intend to amend the Code before 2019 unless their the business.
monitoring of its application indicates that changes are needed.
This suggests a period of relative calm but, as mentioned above, Responsible business new regulations are likely to arise from one or more of the Derwent London recognises the wide range ongoing reviews.
In addition, the new General Data Protection of stakeholders to which it has a responsibility.
Regulations will come into force in 2018.
Therefore, during 2017 In the current environment in which there is a we will be studying the content of this new legislation and concerted effort to re-establish responsible drawing up the necessary procedures to ensure compliance as capitalism, the Group strives to be seen as well as monitoring the requirements of any new draft rules.
responsible in order to preserve its licence to Annual General Meeting operate.
However, at a more objective level, As in previous years, I would encourage you to attend the our responsibility to other stakeholders can be seen in the Groups Sustainability Report Companys Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2017 where you will have the opportunity to meet the chairmen of the Board which is released on the Groups website, www.
com, at the same time committees and members of senior management.
as this Report and Accounts is published.
Robert A. Rayne Page Chairman 28 February 2017 66 Remuneration The Groups Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is therefore due for renewal at the forthcoming AGM in May 2017.
With the heightened level of attention being given to this matter under the responsible capitalism initiative, the Remuneration Committee has consulted with the Groups major shareholders to ensure that the revised policy being voted on at the AGM accords with best practice and is acceptable to investors.
Page 85 Brexit and London economy The vote of the UK to leave the EU created a heightened level of uncertainty, particularly for London, which is likely to persist for some time and radically changed the risk profile facing the Group.
The Directors considered the effect of this change when conducting their robust assessment of the risks to the delivery of the Groups strategic goals and concluded that the possibility of an unfavourable exit settlement represented a new principal risk to the Group.
Page 60 GOVERNANCE 79 The Board Role and responsibilities Directors The Board of Derwent London is responsible for: The Directors of the Company during the year and their interests Setting the Groups strategy for delivering long term value in the share capital of the Company, including deferred shares to shareholders and other stakeholders and ensuring that and shares over which options have been granted under the adequate resources are available to meet its objectives.
performance share plan, are shown in table 1 below.
All of these Providing effective challenge to management concerning the interests are held beneficially.
There have been no changes in any of the Directors interests Monitoring management performance in delivering the strategy.
between the year end and 28 February 2017.
Risk management including setting the Groups risk appetite.
During the year, a conditional grant of 179,345 shares was made to Directors under the Performance Share Plan PSP Ensuring that an appropriate culture is agreed and conveyed whilst 127,242 shares vested to the Directors from an earlier throughout the Company.
conditional award at a zero exercise price.
The remaining A formal list of matters reserved for the Board is maintained 66,518 shares of this award made to Directors lapsed.
which includes decisions relating to strategy, management and The Directors do not participate in the Executive Share capital structure, internal control and corporate governance, Option Scheme.
major contracts, certain external communications and Board membership.
The list is reviewed periodically.
Other than as disclosed in note 36 the Directors have no interest in any material contracts of the Company.
The Board either discharges its responsibilities directly or through delegation to management or one of the Board committees.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 80 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued The Board and Executive Committee Role and responsibilities The full Board met eight times during 2016 and six meetings Chairman are scheduled for 2017.
One meeting every year is arranged As Chairman, Robbie Raynes principal responsibility is the specifically to consider the Groups five year strategy.
effective running of the Board.
This involves setting its Extra meetings are arranged if necessary for the Board agenda, ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full to properly discharge its duties.
and constructive part in the development of the Groups The Executive Committee, which consists of the executive strategy and making sure that the Boards decision making Directors plus five of the Groups senior managers, met eleven process is operated correctly.
Both bodies are provided with Other key responsibilities include: comprehensive papers in a timely manner to ensure that the members are fully briefed on the matters to be discussed at With the Nominations Committee, ensuring that the Board the meeting.
is and remains appropriately balanced to deliver the Groups strategic objectives and to meet the requirements Directors attendance at Board and Executive Committee of good corporate governance.
meetings during the year was as follows: Monitoring the composition of the board committees Executive to ensure that they have the appropriate skills and Full Board Committee experience to effectively discharge their duties.
Number of meetings 8 11 Executive Ensuring that there is effective communication with the John Burns 8 11 Groups shareholders.
Simon Silver 8 10 Chief Executive Damian Wisniewski 8 11 John Burns is the Groups Chief Executive Officer and he Paul Williams 8 11 is primarily responsible for running the Groups strategy Nigel George 7 11 and overall commercial objectives together with David Silverman 8 11 implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees.
This includes the following responsibilities: Non-executive Robert Rayne 8 To develop the Groups strategy in response to changes Stuart Corbyn 8 in the market or economic conditions.
Richard Dakin 8 To keep the Chairman appraised of important and Simon Fraser 8 strategic issues facing the Group.
Stephen Young 7 To ensure that the Groups business is conducted with the Claudia Arney 8 highest standards of integrity in keeping with its culture.
Cilla Snowball 8 Senior Independent Director SID A formal schedule, which has been approved by the Board, sets Simon Fraser took over as the Groups SID at the beginning out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who is of 2016.
The role has two key functions: to provide a responsible for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief sounding board for the Chairman in matters of governance Executive Officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day or the performance of the Board, and to be available to operations of the business.
shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication Board Committees with the Company.
Other functions of the SID include: In addition to the Executive Committee the Board maintains four Board Committees.
The terms of reference of each To at least annually lead a meeting of the non-executive Committee are available on the Groups website Directors without the Chairman present to appraise the www.
Set out below are details performance of the Chairman.
of the membership and duties of the Committees.
To act as an intermediary for non-executive Directors Remuneration Committee when necessary.
Membership and attendance: To act as an independent point of contact in the Groups Whistleblowing procedure.
Claudia Arney Chairman Stuart Corbyn Simon Fraser Stephen Young The Committee is responsible for establishing the Groups remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages for the executive Directors and selected senior executives.
There were five meetings of the Committee in 2016 and the report of its activities is set out on pages 85 to 103.
GOVERNANCE 81 Nominations Committee As a result of this evaluation, the Board is satisfied that the Membership and attendance: structure, balance of skills and operation of the Board continues to be satisfactory and appropriate for the Group.
Simon Fraser Chairman Having used the online survey as the basis of the effectiveness Stuart Corbyn review for a number of years, the Board decided to supplement Richard Dakin this years process by the introduction of confidential interviews, Cilla Snowball conducted by Lintstock.
Given the increased importance being attached to a Groups culture, Lintstock was asked to ensure that The Committees primary responsibility is identifying external this subject received appropriate attention in the course of the candidates for appointment as Directors and, subsequently, interviews.
recommending their appointment to the Board.
In addition if requested, the Committee will make a recommendation The main areas for development that were identified in this concerning an appointment to the Board from within the Group.
years appraisal process were succession, strategy and market The Committee met twice during 2016 and the report of the changes.
Ways to improve the Boards performance in these Nominations Committee is on page 104. areas are being explored and will be reported on in next years report and accounts.
Risk Committee Membership and attendance: Having considered the results of the review, and taken account of matters discussed in his one-to-one meetings with Richard Dakin Chairman the Directors, the Chairman is satisfied that the non-executive Stephen Young Directors continue to be effective and show a high level of Cilla Snowball commitment in discharging their responsibilities.
In reaching this conclusion, the Chairman paid particular attention to those John Burns Directors that had served on the Board for more than six years.
Damian Wisniewski All the non-executive Directors are standing for re-election at The Committees main responsibility is to review the the Annual General Meeting.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk The performance of the Chairman was assessed by the nonmanagement systems.
It met three times during the year executive Directors under the leadership of the Senior and the Committees report is on page 105.
Independent Director using the responses to that section Audit Committee of the survey.
Membership and attendance: The performance of the executive Directors was assessed by the Remuneration Committee as part of the salary review process.
Stephen Young Chairman Stuart Corbyn Independence Richard Dakin The position regarding Stuart Corbyns independence is referred Simon Fraser to in the Chairmans letter on Corporate Governance.
Under the criteria set out in provision B.
1.1. of the Code, Stuart is not Claudia Arney deemed independent having served on the Board for more than The Committee is responsible for reviewing, and reporting nine years.
to the Board on, the Groups financial reporting and for Length of service is only one of a number of criteria against maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups Auditor.
which a directors independence can be assessed, but, in view The Committee met four times during 2016 and the report of of Stuarts tenure, the Board has specifically considered the Audit Committee is on pages 107 and 108. his independence.
attended Factors taken into account in the review included: not attended That Stuart had no relationships with management that might Performance evaluation compromise his independence.
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its The manner in which he exercised his judgement.
Committees, as required by provision B.
6.2. of the Code, was undertaken at the start of 2016 by way of a confidential, online The level of commitment to the role demonstrated during survey completed by all the Directors and the Company the year.
This was facilitated by Lintstock, an independent Taken together with the effective challenge that Stuart third party which carries out no other work for the Company.
consistently presented to management, the Board was satisfied The responses were consolidated by Lintstock which then that he continued to demonstrate an independent state of mind.
prepared reports for the Chairman of each of the Board Committees and the Chairman of the Board.
Despite this conclusion, in the interest of good governance, Stuart stepped down as the Groups Senior Independent Director In view of the new appointments made during 2015, the quality and chairman of the Nominations Committee at the start of the of the Groups induction process was focussed on and the year having served on the Board for more than nine years.
It has replies received were generally favourable.
Overall, the now been agreed that Stuart should leave all the Committees responses identified no particular areas of weakness although that he currently serves on with effect from 31 December 2016 some matters were raised where it was felt that improvements and retire from the Board after the Groups Annual General could be made.
One of these was the extent of the nonMeeting in May 2017. executive Directors input to the Groups strategy.
To enhance this aspect of the Boards performance, an off-site strategy day was arranged during 2016.
Another matter commented on was the size of the Board.
Although mentioned by a number of respondents, none suggested that the Boards performance was compromised by its size and this is a subject regularly considered by the Nominations Committee.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 82 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Diversity Diversity of the Group The Board notes the continued focus on diversity exhibited by a range of bodies and the wide scope of consultations and reviews published during 2016.
These include the Hampton-Alexander % Review which aims to build upon the progress resulting from the Male 59 recommendations made by Lord Davies and The Parker Review Female 41 which considered the ethnic diversity of UK boards.
The Boards policy in this regard is to make appointments based on merit with the over-riding objective of ensuring that the Board maintains the correct balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the Group to successfully deliver the Groups strategy whilst keeping in mind the well documented benefits of a diversified Board and avoiding the pitfalls of positive discrimination.
The Board is also conscious that altering the diversity of Length of tenure of Directors the Board can only be undertaken in conjunction with the underlying Board refreshment programme.
Having recruited two new non-executives in 2015, there have been no further Years % appointments to the Board in 2016, and consequently its 0-2 15 diversity is unchanged.
2-4 8 The Board currently includes two women 15% and the gender 4-6 8 mix throughout the Group is illustrated by the adjacent diagram Over 6 years 69 and on page 68.
Succession One of the responsibilities of the Nominations Committee is to ensure that the Group would be able to continue with its long term strategy in the event of unforeseen circumstances.
As part of this responsibility, the Committee considers the Groups succession planning on a regular basis to ensure that changes to the Board are properly planned and co-ordinated.
The Committee also monitors the development of the executive team below the Board to ensure that there is a diverse supply of senior executives and potential future Board members with the appropriate skills and experience.
The Executive Committee also considers the adequacy of the Groups succession plans below the Board as part of the five year strategy review.
Composition of the Board Having taken account of all the relevant factors described above, the Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence to deliver the Groups strategy, to enable the non-executive Directors to effectively challenge the views of the executive Directors and to satisfy the requirements of good corporate governance.
GOVERNANCE 83 Communication with shareholders Risk management and internal control The Company recognises the importance of clear The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in 2017 communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with together with the controls and mitigating factors are set out institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, on pages 60 to 65.
The Board has carried out a robust principally by the executive Directors, through presentations and assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including visits to the Groups property assets.
The Board receives regular those that would threaten its business model, future reports of these meetings which include a summary of any performance, solvency or liquidity.
As part of the assessment significant issues raised by the shareholders.
the Board specifically considered the impact that the UKs decision to leave the EU might have on these risks.
In view of the The Groups website www.
com, which includes uncertainty created by the vote and the unknown nature of the the presentations made to analysts and investors at the time of business environment that the Group will eventually be the Groups interim and full year results, together with the social operating in, the Board concluded that this represented a new media channels that the Group uses, provide additional sources of principal risk to the business.
Websites for specific developments are used to help explain the Groups current activities to Details of the price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks that are shareholders in more detail.
The Annual Report, which is available inherent in the Groups business are given in note 23 on pages to all shareholders, reinforces this communication.
During 2016, the Group held over 320 investor meetings with 167 The key elements of the Groups internal control framework investors.
Of these, 70 were shareholders at the year end and their which is designed to manage and control the Groups risks are: ownership represented over 60% of the shares in issue.
A calendar an approved schedule of matters reserved for decision of our main shareholder events in 2016 can be seen below.
by the Board and the Executive Committee, supported The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders in by defined responsibilities and levels of authority: particular to question the Directors and the Chairman of each of the day-to-day involvement of the executive Directors in the Board Committees.
An alternative channel of communication all aspects of the Groups business: to the Board is available to shareholders through Simon Fraser, a comprehensive system of financial reporting and forecasting the Senior Independent Director.
including both sensitivity and variance analysis: maintenance, updating and regular review by the Risk January Property Conference London Committee of the Groups Risk Register which forms part February 2015 Results presentation of the risk management process: and Roadshow United Kingdom a formal Whistleblowing Policy which includes access to March Roadshows Netherlands and United Kingdom an external help line.
Salesforce presentations x3 April Property Conference London The effectiveness of this system and the operation of Salesforce presentation the key components thereof have been reviewed for the May 2016 Q1 business update conference call accounting year and the period to the date of approval Salesforce presentation of the financial statements.
Property Conference Amsterdam This review did not reveal any significant weaknesses in the June Property Conference London Groups system of controls.
July The Board was able to assess the effectiveness of the August 2016 H1 results presentation controls through the close day-to-day involvement of the Roadshows Netherlands and United Kingdom executive Directors in the operation of many of the controls Salesforce presentation and the various reports that the Board receives which enable September Property Conference London x2 and New York any significant control failure to be identified.
Roadshow United Kingdom October November 2016 Q3 business update conference call Investor conference Property Conference London x2 December Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 84 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Internal audit The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary given the size and complexity of the Group.
Report and accounts The Board has considered the Groups report and accounts and, taking into account the recommendation of the Audit Committee, is satisfied that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Going concern Under Provision C. 1.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is required to report whether the business is a going concern.
In considering this requirement, the Directors have taken into account the following: The Groups latest rolling forecast for the next two years, in particular the cash flows, borrowings and undrawn facilities.
Sensitivity analysis is included within these forecasts.
The headroom under the Groups financial covenants.
The risks included on the Groups Risk Register that could impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency over the next 12 months.
Having due regard to these matters and after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence until at least February 2018.
Therefore, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Groups Viability Statement, which reflects the Boards conclusion regarding the impact of the principal risks on the Groups solvency and liquidity over the five year period of the review, is set out on page 65.
