NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Ensuring diversity and succession Nomination Committee members David Tyler Chairman Pierre Bouchut Gwyn Burr Terry Duddy Andrew Formica Judy Gibbons skills, the Directors have collectively many years of experience Dear Shareholders gained in a wide range of businesses and excellent track records I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report in a range of sectors, as illustrated by the table below.
Skills on the covering our work in 2016.
This report should be read in Board cover retail, property, finance, marketing, human resources, conjunction with the separate report on our compliance with the international and general corporate experience.
Two NonUK Corporate Governance Code, which can be found on pages 115 Executive Directors are serving executives.
Directors serve as non-executive directors on external boards.
These appointments provide invaluable experience and enable the Changes to the Board Directors to see other corporate models and governance processes Following a number of changes to the Board last year, this year which, in turn, enrich debate on the Board.
Further information on has been relatively quiet and has allowed newer Board members the biographies of the Directors is on pages 120 to 121. to become fully established.
Andrew Formica was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in late 2015, and 2016 has been his first full Chart 46 year on the Board.
Pierre Bouchut succeeded Jacques Espinasse as Board experience by sector Chairman of the Audit Committee, following Jacques retirement at the 2016 AGM.
Both Directors received an induction, tailored to their respective role.
Details are described further on the opposite Finance, banking, fund management page.
You can also read Andrews reflections on his first year on page 67.
Property, regeneration projects Board balance of skills and knowledge French market, international business A key responsibility of the Committee is to ensure that the Board maintains a balance of skills, knowledge and experience Customer service, customer behaviours appropriate to the operation of the business and required to Retail deliver the strategy.
As in past years, the Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and as part of this review the Digital technology, marketing Committee considered: The number and balance of Executive and NonNon-Executive Director Executive Director Executive Directors: Committee membership: Diversity Background professions, core skills and experience: There are currently two female Directors on the Board, Independence: and representing 20% of its composition.
The Board recognises the Diversity, including age, gender and ethnicity.
benefits of diversity in its widest sense, which remains central Following this review the Committee is satisfied that the Board to the Committees thinking about diversity on the Board.
The continues to have an appropriate mix of skills, knowledge and Committee has noted the recommendation in the Hamptonexperience to operate effectively.
In addition to their professional Alexander Review for a new voluntary target of a third of all 72 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chart 47 Chart 48 Diversity Board balance Directors induction and development New Directors or Directors who take on a new role on the Board receive a tailored induction facilitated by 4 6 2 8 the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
During the year Andrew Formicas induction followed his appointment to the Board in late 2015.
He had a meeting with the General Counsel and Company Secretary to discuss the legal and regulatory framework in which Male Executive directors operate, the Groups policies including the Female Non-Executive Share Dealing Policy and the work plan for the Board and its Committees.
Andrew had meetings with senior Figures as at 31 December 2016 management and his fellow Directors.
He visited a number of the Groups assets and met colleagues and Board members in FTSE 350 companies to be women by 2020. local management in the business.
Andrews reflections The Committee has also considered the findings of The Parker on his first year as a Non-Executive Director are on Report on the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards and is aware of the page 67. likely target for FTSE 100 companies to have at least one person of Pierre Bouchut succeeded Jacques Espinasse as colour on the Board by 2021.
When vacancies arise, consideration Chairman of the Audit Committee following the of diversity in its widest sense will be taken into account during 2016 Annual General Meeting.
His induction focused the recruitment process while future appointments will always be onthe requirements and responsibility of his new role.
For further information on progress on diversity A comprehensive pack of briefing papers provided within the business, see Our people on page 40. background information for the briefing meetings.
Succession planning The meetings covered, amongst other matters: The Committee has continued to focus on this important area A discussion with the External Auditor, Deloitte LLP in 2016.
The Committee received an update paper on succession Deloitte, covering corporate governance matters planning for the Executive Directors.
Individual Executive Directors and an update on the role and responsibilities of the discuss their career aspirations with the Chief Executive, who keeps Audit Committee: the Committee appraised of those discussions.
As part of my job, I A meeting with the Groups external valuer, Cushman also keep closely in touch with the Executive Directors and other & Wakefield, to discuss the valuation process and the senior members of the management team.
role of the Audit Committee Chairman in that process: Following the acquisition of the loan portfolio in Ireland in 2015, A discussion on the Companies Act and a review of the management structure was carried out and a directors duties: requirement for a senior strategic role to support the Companys A private meeting with Deloitte with whom the Audit strategy and drive business performance across the UK and Ireland Committee Chairman engages separately outside the portfolios was identified.
The Committee was kept up to date on Committee timetable: and progress to identify external candidates for the role of Managing A session with the Group Financial Controller Director, UK and Ireland and was kept abreast of progress of the and the Risk and Controls Manager to discuss risk interview process, which culminated in the appointment of Mark management and internal control.
Bourgeois to the role who started on 1 February 2017.
The Nomination Committee continues to take a keen interest in the succession plan, which includes Executive Directors, the Group Executive Committee members and senior management roles across the business.
Short to medium-term plans have been reviewed to ensure that key roles can be filled on an interim basis as well as longer term.
The Committee continues to receive reports on the talent pipeline for the future which identifies high calibre individualsas potential successors for senior management roles.
The Committee acknowledges however, the size of the organisation means that there are not obvious successors for every senior role.
The Committee will continue to focus on this area as part of its remit.
David Tyler Chairman of the Nomination Committee HAMMERSON.
