AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Overseeing robust risk management Audit Committee members Pierre Bouchut Chairman Gwyn Burr Andrew Formica Judy Gibbons Risk management and internal controls Dear Shareholders We reported last year that the Committee had approved a proposal I am pleased to present my first report on behalf of the Audit to adopt a new co-sourcing internal audit provision, overseen by Committee, having succeeded Jacques Espinasse who retired after a newly appointed Risk and Controls Manager.
Further details the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
This report should be read in on the new arrangements which combine internal and external conjunction with the section on how we have complied with the resource are provided on page 76.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which is on pages 115 to 119.
Having monitored the Groups risk management and internal controls system, and having reviewed the effectiveness of material I fulfil the Code requirement of having recent and relevant controls, I confirm on behalf of the Committee that no significant financial experience, and my fellow Committee members bring failings or weaknesses in the Groups control structure were a wide knowledge of financial matters, financial reporting, risk identified during the year.
management and internal controls and sector knowledge.
The Committees work also included the consideration of Cushman External risk landscape & Wakefields the Valuer valuation of the Groups portfolio for Throughout the year the Committee has monitored broader 2016, which is key to determining the Groups overall business market conditions and property and consumer market trends.
In performance and year end results.
The Committee scrutinised particular the Committee has debated the risks and challenges and discussed the valuation process and was satisfied with the arising from the referendum decision to leave the European Union conclusions reached by the Valuer.
The Committee also spent in relation to the valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
Other time reviewing the appropriateness of the significant financial risks have been considered such as cyber risk and the increased risk judgements and these are set out in more detail on page 77. of terrorist activity at our shopping centres.
The Committee uses Audit Committee effectiveness the Risk Management Framework as a basis for such discussions.
It is kept under regular review by management and the Committee The externally facilitated Board effectiveness review in 2016 to ensure that risks are appropriately identified and categorised concluded that the Committee was fulfilling its duties effectively.
and that their potential impact on the Group is understood and This confirms my view that the Committee continues to operate appropriate resources are allocated to mitigate them.
See page 53 effectively and plays a key role in ensuring appropriate risk for further discussion of the Groups approach to risk management.
The regular discussion and challenge, which the Committee has had with senior management, External Auditor the External Auditor, the Risk and Controls Manager and the We announced in last years Annual Report that we had started the Valuer, together with the high quality of reports and information process to appoint a new External Auditor.
I chaired the selection provided to the Committee has enabled us to discharge our sub-committee and the outcome of the process in October was duties effectively.
the decision to appoint  LLP PwC I would like to commend Deloitte for the continuing high quality as the Companys External Auditor subject to final approval of of the audit services they have provided to the Company over shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
about the process are on page 75.
Pierre Bouchut Chairman of the Audit Committee 74 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A range of candidates was considered, including audit firms outside External audit tender the four largest public accounting firms.
The sub-committee, Deloitte or its predecessor firms have been the Companys External supported by senior management, prepared a list of key selection Auditor since the Company was founded in the 1940s.
In last criteria and decided which firms would be invited to take part.
Key years Annual Report the Company stated that it had considered selection criteria in relation to the potential candidate firms were tendering and rotation options in advance of the required rotation discussed and agreed by the sub-committee and included: date of 2021 under the new regulations.
After consideration, Approach to client service and audit quality: the Committee recommended that a tender process should be Quality and cultural fit of the lead partner and key undertaken in 2016 to align with the current auditor partner team members: rotation and priorities of the Group.
The Committee decided that Deloitte would not be included in the process in the interests of The extent to which wider real estate and retail industry experience and knowledge would influence the delivery of best practice.
the audit: Audit tender timetable Technical expertise and a pragmatic, commercial approach to resolving issues: Meetings held between management and Dec 15 Proposed audit approach including delivery and management of sub-committee members and audit firms to Apr 16 determine their capabilities and prospective the audit across the Group: audit partners.
Areas of audit innovation and use of technology which would benefit the Group: Agreement of short list of audit firms by the Proposed audit transition plan: and May selection sub-committee.
Confirmation of 2016 Value for money.
Invitation to tender Issue of tender documents and supporting  LLP, Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG June information to the participating firms.
Series of LLP and were short listed and invited to tender.
They were each 2016 management meetings and site visits in the UK, asked to prepare a detailed proposal document.
The proposal Ireland and France with prospective firms.
document included two special assignments designed to test the quality and scope of technical expertise.
A formal presentation was Receipt and evaluation of tender documents by also prepared by each candidate firm which included presentation Sept the sub-committee.
2016 of the audit approach to the valuation of one of Hammersons Separate presentations to the sub-committee developments.
This was intended to demonstrate practical audit from prospective firms.
Recommendation of approach and judgement and presentation and reporting skills.
the new auditor by the sub-committee to the The firms were invited to a series of meetings at Hammersons Audit Committee.
offices to meet the UK, France and Ireland financial teams and Recommendation of appointment of the members of the tax and treasury teams.
They also met the General Oct new auditor to the Board for approval.
Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chief Executive, the Chief 2016 Announcement of the appointment via RNS.
Financial Officer, members of the Audit Committee and senior management.
The process was supported by the establishment of Initial planning with PwC.
Induction period a data room to allow access to consistent information to support commenced with PwC shadowing Deloitte the candidate firms tender proposals.
A guided tour of one of the during 2016 year-end process.
Groups assets, The Oracle, Reading, was also provided.
Formal presentations Selection criteria and timetable In early September proposal documents were submitted and A proposed timetable for the tender process was agreed.
Key considered by the selection sub-committee and in late September factors in determining the timetable were the ability to identify a the three firms each made a formal presentation to the selection new External Auditor in time to allow an induction period with the sub-committee at which each was given the opportunity to discuss successful firm shadowing Deloitte during the year end process.
their presentation and answer questions.
It was also important thatthe tender timetable should fit around existing work patterns to ensure a thorough process.
Selection of new External Auditor Following consideration of the proposal documents and the In accordance with the audit tender timetable approved by the presentations and taking into account the views of colleagues Committee in November 2015, the Committee established a who met with each firm, the sub-committee identified sub-committee, chaired by Pierre Bouchut and including Andrew  LLP PwC as the proposed new External Formica, and supported by the Chief Financial Officer and other Auditor.
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board that senior managers.
The sub-committee had a number of meetings with following the resignation of Deloitte after the completion of the management and prospective firms to establish firm credentials and December 2016 year end audit, PwC be appointed by the Board lead audit firm partner selection.
as External Auditor, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
The Board accepted the recommendation.
COM 75 Audit Committee report continued To determine the Internal Audit Programme for 2016, key Effectiveness of the External Auditor risk areas in the Groups Risk Management Framework were The Committee considered the effectiveness of the External considered, in particular, key risks which had not been subject Auditor as part of the 2016 year end process.
The Committee to recent internal audit, areas of change within the business and sought the views of key members of the finance team and their heightened business risk areas.
Having satisfied itself that the feedback confirmed that Deloitte continued to perform well programme was based on a thorough review of the Groups key and provided the appropriate level of challenge to management.
business activities and addressed a number of related risk areas, During the year the Committee also monitored progress against the Committee approved the programme.
the external audit plan at each meeting and considered the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Audit Quality Review AQR During 2016 audits were carried out on: findings for Deloitte.
The AQR team selected the audit of the UK retail parks operations: 2015 Hammerson plc financial statements as part of their 2016 Cyber security: annual inspection of audit firms.
The focus of the review and their reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are required Business continuity management: and rather than highlighting areas performed to or above the expected Follow up reviews of 2015 audits.
The Chairman of the Committee received a full copy of the In addition to the approved plan, reviews were also undertaken report of the AQR team and has discussed these with Deloitte.
The on other areas including a review of the Health and Safety Committee confirms that there were no areas for improvement management system and head office suppliers.
identified in the report and is satisfied that there is nothing in the report which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
The Committee received an internal controls update at each meeting and reviewed the results of the internal audit reports.
Overall, the Committee concluded that Deloitte had carried out its Each of the audits confirmed that these areas were appropriately audit for 2016 effectively and efficiently.
Some recommendations for improvements were identified which were agreed by management and responsibility Non-audit services assigned.
The Committee also regularly reviewed progress The Committee recognises the need for objective and independent on any outstanding actions and the expected timetable for auditors and how such objectivity might be, or appear to be, their completion.
compromised through the provision of non-audit services by the External Auditor.
During the year the Committee considered the In 2017 the Committee will continue to follow a risk-based extent of the non-audit services provided by Deloitte.
Details of approach to internal audit.
Risk areas scheduled for future audits the policy on the provision of non-audit services are included in include shopping centre operations, sustainability reporting, the Annual Report on page 118 and the full policy is available at lease management, internal controls for VIA Outlets and www.
Details of the fees paid to Deloitte for nontreasury processes.
audit work in 2016 are also on page 118.
Full details of Deloittes fees To allow the new internal audit arrangements to become better are shown in note4to the accounts on page 144. established before reviewing their effectiveness, the next review Viability statement of the effectiveness of the internal audit will be undertaken The Committee reviewed managements work on assessing during 2017. potential risks to the business and the appropriateness of the Fair, balanced, understandable Companys choice of a five-year assessment period.
Following The Committee adopted the same approach as in previous years this review, the Committee was satisfied that management had to ensuring that the 2016 Annual Report is fair, balanced and conducted a robust assessment and recommended to the Board understandable.
The process was led by an internal editorial team that it could approve and make the Viability Statement on page 59. consisting of members drawn from Group Finance, the Company Internal audit Secretariat, Corporate Communications, Investor Relations Following a review of the Groups internal audit arrangements and Marketing.
The editorial team met regularly to review work in late 2015, during the year new internal audit arrangements and ensure balanced reporting with appropriate links between have been implemented which use a combination of internal and key messages and sections of the Annual Report.
A paper was external resources to enhance and monitor the Groups internal presented to the Committee to help them challenge and test its audit procedures.
The internal audit co-sourcing arrangements assessment that the report was fair, balanced and understandable.
enable the Risk and Controls Manager, who leads internal audit The Committee, together with senior management, reviewed the activities, to draw on expertise in specific areas from outside the report in its final stages and the Committee and then the Board Company where a high degree of specialist technical knowledge were able to confirm that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is required.
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
76 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Significant financial judgements During the year the Committee considered the appropriateness of significant financial judgements made in connection with the financial statements as set out below: Table 49 Significant financial judgement considered How the Committee addressed the issue Valuation of the Groups property portfolio The Committee recognises that the Group operates in liquid and The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is a key risk due mature markets, in which there are well-established valuation to its significance in the context of the Groups net asset value.
The Committee is also familiar with the processes by which All valuations are thoroughly reviewed by management and the management provides information to the Valuer.
The Committee received presentations from the Valuer in July i.
Shopping centres and retail parks and January to review the outcomes of the Valuers valuations.
The Committee challenged the Valuers assumptions and was satisfied The shopping centres and retail parks valuations are undertaken by the Groups external valuer, Cushman & Wakefield Valuer.
that the procedures and methodologies used were appropriate.
Current market conditions and recent transactions were also The valuations are based on inputs such as capitalisation yields and market rental income ERV and hence are inherently subjective.
Premium outlets The Valuer was asked to highlight any significant judgements and The premium outlet valuations are also undertaken by the Groups disagreements with management and the Committee satisfied itself Valuer and include judgements on capitalisation yields and income.
However, the valuations are more subjective than for the Groups The Committee was satisfied that the valuation of the Groups shopping centres and retail parks as the sector has fewer comparable portfolio was prudent and reasonably based.
transactions and the valuation methodology requires judgement about future performance and discount rates.
Accounting for significant transactions The Committee reviewed managements paper explaining the i. Con version of previously acquired Irish loan portfolio into proposed accounting treatment for the Irish loan acquisition and the underlying property assets subsequent conversion to the underlying property assets.
It also One of the key transactions during the year has been the conversion explained the accounting treatment associated with the various of the previously acquired Irish loan portfolio into the underlying ownership structures and control provisions, Dundrum Town Centre, property assets, including Dundrum Town Centre, Dublin, the Ilac Dublin is equity-accounted as a joint venture, the Ilac Centre, Dublin Centre, Dublin and a number of development sites.
The accounting is treated as a joint operation, whilst Dublin Central, Dublin is a for this conversion is material to the Groups financial statements wholly-owned development property.
and was complex as the assets had different ownership interests and At 31 December 2016, the loan secured against the Pavilions shopping control provisions.
centre, Swords had not been converted into property and it is equityaccounted within the Allianz joint venture.
Other transactions During the year the Group made a number of acquisitions and For other significant transactions including the acquisition and part disposals, including transactions between the Group and its joint disposal of Grand Central, Birmingham, the Committee reviewed and ventures.
There are risks in the accounting processes for these challenged managements accounting proposals and judgements.
Committee was satisfied that the approach adopted was appropriate.
The description of the significant financial judgements above should be read in conjunction with the Auditors Report on page 126 and the significant accounting policies disclosed in note 1 to the accounts on pages 136 to 139.
