Strategic report Governance Financial statements Report of the Audit Committee Composition of the Committee The current members of the Audit Committee are shown on page 25, these individuals having been selected to provide the right balance of knowledge, skill and experience to support the business in pursuing its strategy and achieving its objectives.
Following the announcement of Humphrey Prices retirement in March 2016, Rebecca Worthington, having originally been appointed to the Board on 10 June 2014, took over the Chairmanship of the Committee on 6 June 2016.
Melvyn Egglenton stepped down from the Audit Committee with effect from 23 August 2016 and David Rough was appointed to the Audit Committee in his place.
Margaret Young continued as a member of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
All Committee members are considered by the Board to be independent.
Rebecca Worthington, Margaret Young and David Rough all have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code, further details of which are given on page 25.
The Audit Committee as a whole have relevant industrial property experience.
No members of the Committee have links with the Companys external auditor.
Meetings Rebecca Worthington The Committee meets regularly during the year, its meetings being Chair of the Audit Committee aligned to the financial reporting timetable.
Senior representatives of the external auditors, Executive Directors and senior management may Introduction by the Chair of the Audit Committee be invited to attend the meetings at the Committees discretion.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the Audit Committee.
During 2016 the Committee met three times for scheduled meetings.
The objectives of the Committee are to: Details of members attendance at each meeting are shown on page 27. increase shareholder confidence in the credibility and objectivity Annual evaluation of performance ofthe Groups published financial information: assist the Board in meeting its financial reporting responsibilities The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the byensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise undertaken during the management and internal control procedures and to ensure that the year and the Committee was found to be operating effectively.
principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements comply with applicable Responsibilities of the Committee statutory requirements: and The Audit Committee the Committee has been established in strengthen the independent position of the external auditor by accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
providing channels of communication between them and the Non-Executive Directors.
The full terms of reference of the Committee, reviewed in 2016, are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement The Committees principal responsibilities include: is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Financial This report sets out: Statements and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, itis fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information information regarding the composition of the Committee, the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, meetings it held during the year and the evaluation of its performance: performance, business model and strategy: the responsibilities of the Committee and the manner in which it reviewing the interim and full-year financial statements prior to their discharges them: and submission to the Board, considering whether the Groups chosen the areas of significant judgement considered by the Committee accounting policies have been properly applied and whether any during the year.
changes to financial reporting requirements have been properly dealt with: I would like to thank my fellow members of the Committee, together reviewing the Groups principal risks on a bi-annual basis: with management, for their support during the period since my ensuring that the Group has in place the internal controls, systems appointment and look forward to working with them in continuing to and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate its identified risks deliver the Committees objectives.
and ensure the integrity of financial information: monitoring the Groups internal audit requirements: ensuring that the Group has in place the systems and procedures necessary to comply with relevant legislation, regulation and best practice concerning social, environmental and ethical matters: Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 Report of the Audit Committee continued reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees and Internal control and riskmanagement contractors to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the most wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters, reviewing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place throughout the systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
procedures for detecting fraud: That process, which accords with the 2014 FRC Guidance on Risk considering all matters relating to the recommendation for Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and terms of Reporting, is supported by regular meetings of the Board and engagement of the Groups external auditor: Committee along with: maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups external auditor, reviewing their effectiveness, objectivity and independence, formalised management structure comprising a clear considering both the scope of their work and the fees paid to them organisational structure with well-defined lines of reporting and for audit and non-audit services: and responsibility, along with set parameters under which the business developing and implementing the policy for the provision of can operate without further or specific consideration by the Board: non-audit services by the external auditor.
financial reporting disciplines covering performance monitoring, profit and cash flow forecasting and the preparation of the The Committee is satisfied that it receives sufficient, reliable and consolidated accounts: timelyinformation from management in order to allow it to fulfil its investment appraisal procedures a clearly defined framework for responsibilities.
The ways in which the Committee discharged its capital and development expenditure and subsequent ongoing responsibilities during the year are described below.
appraisals: and risk identification and management procedures risk identification Oversight of the financial reportingprocess and management is an integral part of the system of internal control.
The Committee reviewed and considered the following areas in respect Identified risks along with the associated controls and monitoring of financial reporting and the preparation of the interim and annual procedures intended to mitigate then, are documented in a risk financial statements: register.
The risk register is reviewed bi-annually and updated where appropriate, reports are received from the executive on control appropriateness of the accounting policies applied by management: procedures, and any areas for improvement are agreed for extent of compliance with external and internal financial reporting subsequent action.
Information regarding the key risks the Group standards and policies: faces in pursuing its strategy and achieving its objectives is reported appropriateness of the significant judgements made by management: in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 23. adequacy of statutory disclosures: completeness and adequacy of the disclosure of the principal risks Internal audit and uncertainties faced by the Group: and The majority of the processing and accounting for the day-to-day whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, transactions of the Group is outsourced to third-party suppliers.
Management maintain a close relationship with these suppliers and perform regular detailed reviews of their work, reporting to the In order to carry out this work, the Committee considered the work Committee if any significant concerns are raised by these reviews.
The andrecommendations of the finance team led by the Finance Director, Committee regularly reviews the internal controls to ensure that they Richard Lowes.
In addition, the Committee received regular reports are adequate for the size and complexity of the business.
from the external auditor setting out their views of the accounting treatments and judgements included in the financial statements.
The Committee believes that the outsourcing of day-to-day processing Thereports from the external auditor are based on a full audit of the and accounting routines, combined with the oversight and review annual financial statements and a review of the unaudited interim procedures performed by management and the independent challenge financial statements.
and assurance provided by the external auditor, provides three lines of defence that mitigate the need for an internal audit function at this In November 2016, the Company received a comment letter from time.
The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor this theFinancial Reporting Council FRC requesting further information position on an ongoing basis.
and explanation in relation to the Groups 2015 Annual Report andAccounts.
After due consideration and approval by the Audit Whistleblowing Committee, the Company responded to the FRCs requests.
The The Group has in place a formal whistleblowing policy and a dedicated Companys correspondence with the FRC closed satisfactorily with independent whistleblowing hotline, as part of the arrangements set nochanges to reported results being required.
As a result of the upand monitored by the Committee, so that employees are able to correspondence, the Company has refined the wording of certain of report any matters of concern.
The Board has appointed Rebecca itssignificant accounting policies and extended certain disclosures in Worthington as the Board member with responsibility for the the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
The FRC has advised the Committee that while its review was External audit Compliance with CMA Order 2014 conducted by staff with an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting frameworks, it is based only on a review of the Annual The Committee confirms that the Company has complied with The Report and Accounts and does not benefit from a detailed knowledge Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation of the Groups business or an understanding of the underlying Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit transactions entered into.
Accordingly, the Committee acknowledges Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. that the FRCs review provides no assurance that the Annual Report and Accounts are correct in all material respects.
30 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In addition to acting as external auditor, services provided to the Group External audit Appointment during 2016 by Deloitte and their associates included tax advice in Deloitte have been the Groups external auditor since 2006 when respect of overseas income tax, VAT and property transfer taxes.
theGroup prepared its first Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The audit partner responsible for the Groups audit matters is changed Payments made by the Group for non-audit fees for the year every five years in accordance with the Ethical Standards issued by the represented 16% of the total fees paid to Deloitte.
Further details of Auditing Practices Board.
audit and non-audit fees for the year are disclosed on page 80.
The Committee has established a tendering policy that requires an External audit Effectiveness audit tender every ten years.
The audit for the year ended 31 December The Committee has adopted a formal framework in its review of the 2016 was tendered during 2015.
Three audit firms were invited to effectiveness of the external audit process which includes: tender, including the previous incumbent, Deloitte.
A panel, including the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director, considering how the audit process can support the work of considered written submissions and oral presentations from each theCommittee: ofthe firms.
Following this competitive tender process the Audit determining the scope of the audit, including the completeness of Committee recommended to the Board and the Board approved the risks of material misstatement identified in the independent thereappointment of Deloitte for the year ended 31 December 2016. auditors report: Anew audit partner, Claire Faulkner, has led the audit for the year ended monitoring the planning and execution of the audit: 31 December 2016. reviewing communications received from the auditor: assessing the quality of the formal, audit report to shareholders: External audit Independence andobjectivity appraising the audit partner and the audit team: In forming their opinion on the independence and objectivity of the evaluating the extent to which the audit contributes insights external auditor, the Committee takes into account the safeguards andadds value: and operating within Deloitte and they are asked to provide a formal assessing the effectiveness of the management team in the statement of their independence annually.
To safeguard the independence of the external auditor, the Committee A comprehensive auditor assessment questionnaire is completed ensures compliance with its policy governing the provision of non-audit annually by each member of the Committee and the Finance Director.
services by the external auditor under which Deloitte may not provide a In addition, feedback is obtained from members of the senior service which places them in a position where they may be required to management team, including the Joint Chief Executives, and from the audit their own work.
Specifically, Deloitte are precluded from providing wider finance team.
The responses are collated and the resulting services relating to bookkeeping or other services relating to the analysis considered by the Committee with any concerns being accounting records or financial statements of the Group, financial discussed with the auditor.
Every year the external audit partner meets information system design and implementation, appraisal or evaluation with the Committee Chairman and Finance Director to formally discuss services, actuarial services, any management functions, investment the quality of the external audit process using this evaluation framework banking services, legal services unrelated to the audit, remuneration and the outcome of those discussions feeds into the audit process for related services or advocacy services.
To further fulfil its responsibilities regarding the independence and The Committee meets as considered necessary with the external objectivity of the external auditor, the Committee reviewed: auditor without management being present.
The effectiveness of the management teams role in the external audit process is assessed the scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors principally using the following performance measures: engagement letter: the external auditors overall work plan: the timely identification and resolution of areas of accounting the external auditors fee proposal: judgement: a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements to the quality and timeliness of papers analysing those judgements: ensure objectivity and to identify, report and manage any conflicts the management teams approach to the value of independent of interest: and audit and the booking of any audit adjustments arising: and the extent, nature and associated fees of non-audit services the timely provision of draft public documents for review by the provided by the external auditor.
The Committee believes that it receives particular benefit from certainnon-audit services being provided by the external auditor due totheir wide and detailed knowledge of the Group and so discretion is used, subject to the controls set out above, in obtaining such services from Deloitte.
Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are based on the work undertaken and are not success related.
Consideration is given to the nature of and remuneration received for other services provided by Deloitte to the Group and confirmation is sought from them that thefee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable them to perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
TheCommittee has fully evaluated all non-audit work undertaken byDeloitte during the year against its policy and remains comfortable that it is appropriate and the fees justified.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Report of the Audit Committee continued Areas of significant accounting judgement considered by the Audit Committee during 2016 The areas of significance considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements and its responses to them were as follows: Area considered Audit Committee response Accounting for the Groups acquisition of the The Committee considered the form and substance of the Groups influence over AIF in the remaining shares of Ashtenne Industrial Fund period through to the Groups purchase of the remaining minority interest.
Unit Trust AIF The Committee considered the treatment of the performance fee payable by AIF to the Group.
The Committee considered and debated the external auditors findings in this area.
Further information is given in notes 15 and 20 to the financial statements.
Investment property valuations Members of the Committee with relevant and current expertise in property valuations met with the external valuers of the Groups property portfolio to understand and challenge, where necessary, the valuations.
Further information is given in note 18 to the financial statements.
Judgements and disclosures made in relation The Committee reviewed and challenged the underlying assumptions used in the going concern to going concern and long-term viability forecasts and long-term viability calculations as well as the reasonableness of the stress tests carried out by management in relation to those forecasts.
The Committee considered the support for and adequacy of the disclosures made in the Annual Report and Financial Statements in relation to going concern, long-term viability, debt maturity and covenant compliance.
Further information is given in the Directors Report on page 54.
Basis for qualification for REIT status and the The Committee considered the Groups process for monitoring and maintaining REIT status.
recognition of overseas deferred tax assets The Committee considered the supporting evidence for recognition of overseas deferred tax assets, particularly in relation to tax losses.
The Committee considered the reasonability of managements assessment of the likelihood of future utilisation of tax losses in each relevant entity and jurisdiction.
Further information is given in notes 12 and 21 to the financial statements.
Recognition of any expense for the Founder The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions applied by management in its Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP valuation of the Founder LTIP, the charge to be recognised for the year and the dilutive impact onthe calculation of earnings per share.
The Committee considered the adequacy of the presentation and disclosure regarding the Founder LTIP in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Further information is given in note 33 to the financial statements.
Rebecca Worthington Chair of the Audit Committee 19 March 2017 32 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
