Strategic report Governance Financial statements Report of the Nomination Committee Composition of the Committee The Board has established a Nomination Committee the Committee, the majority of members of which are independent Non-Executive Directors as required by the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee comprises Melvyn Egglenton Chairman, Rebecca Worthington, Margaret Young, David Rough and either of the Joint Chief Executives, Morgan Jones and Ian Watson, at any one time.
James Hambro and Humphrey Price were members of the Committee during the year until their retirement from the Board on 23 August 2016 and 6 June 2016 respectively.
Rebecca Worthington acted as Chairman of the Committee for its discussions concerning the appointment of a Chairman to replace James Hambro upon his retirement.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee The role of the Committee is to keep under review the composition of the Board, to plan for its refreshment, with regard to balance and structure, and to consider issues of succession.
The Committee is responsible for a number of matters relating to the Melvyn Egglenton composition of the Board and its Committees and in discharging its Chairman of the NominationCommittee responsibilities gives careful consideration to the Groups policies on diversity, including those relating to gender and ethnicity.
The Introduction by the Chairman of the Committees responsibilities include: NominationCommittee reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and making The report below describes the Nomination Committee, recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes required: itsresponsibilities and its key activities during the year.
succession planning for Directors, ensuring that appropriate contingency plans are in place and being cognisant of the Groups During 2016 the main focus of the Nomination Committee was the strategy and culture: appointment of a new Chairman and a review of the composition of the identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates to fill Board Committees following the retirements of James Hambro and Board vacancies as and when they arise: Humphrey Price.
reviewing annually the time commitment required of Non-Executive Directors: and A key objective of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that the making recommendations to the Board regarding membership of Board has the right balance of skills and experience to enable it to the Audit and Remuneration Committees in consultation with the provide leadership and accountability.
It was therefore pleasing to see Chairman of each Committee.
that the feedback from the Board effectiveness evaluation process undertaken during the year provided confirmation that the Board, The Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, and the Board Committees, continue to operate effectively.
to meet at least once a year.
During 2016 the Committee met four times: to consider a replacement for James Hambro as Chairman, to review the contract and fees for the Chairman, to review the fees for the Non-Executive Directors and to make recommendations for any changes to the Executive Directors for their approval, to review the membership of the Board Committees and to approve its terms of reference for the coming year.
The full terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, reviewed in October 2016, are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 Report of the Nomination Committee continued Diversity Hansteen strives to have an equal, diverse and inclusive workforce.
TheCompany embraces diversity, including gender and ethnic diversity, and provides an environment where every employee has the opportunity to achieve their full potential.
It is one of Hansteens core values that people treat each other with dignity and respect.
The Board approved Hansteens diversity and inclusion policy in 2013 and reviewed it in 2016.
The policy is set out in the Employee Handbook and, as part of their induction, all new employees must confirm that they have read and understood the policy.
The Boards policy on diversity, including gender and ethnicity, together with objectives that it has set for implementing the policy, and progress on achieving these objectives are set out in the corporate and social responsibility section of the Annual Report.
Committee evaluation The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise undertaken during the year and the Committee was found to be operating effectively.
Activities during 2016 The Committees focus in 2016 was the replacement of James Hambro as Chairman and Rebecca Worthington was appointed Chair of the Committee to undertake this task.
The Nomination Committee noted that Melvyn Egglenton had recorded his interest in being considered for the position and considered whether it was appropriate to appoint headhunters to carry out an external search.
The Nomination Committee was of the view that Melvyn Egglenton was a strong candidate, given his considerable commercial experience and public company experience as Chairman of Pendragon PLC.
They also considered that over the previous two years on the Board he had shown himself to be independently minded and to offer a valuable contribution, whilst being supportive of the business.
Over that time, he had gained the respect of the whole Board.
During the year, the Committee also reviewed the composition of theBoard Committees and the role of Senior Independent Director, following the retirements of Humphrey Price and James Hambro andthe appointment of Melvyn Egglenton as Chairman.
Rebecca Worthington had already been appointed as the replacement for Humphrey Price as Chair of the Audit Committee.
It was agreed that Margaret Young had the necessary skills and experience and would be appointed to and act as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Margaret Young had attended a number of Remuneration Committee meetings since she joined the Board, despite not being a member of theCommittee.
It was also agreed that David Rough had the necessary skills and experience and would be appointed to the Audit Committee.
In addition, because of Davids previous experience, he was appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
Melvyn Egglenton Chairman of the NominationCommittee 19 March 2017 34 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
