Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance framework Audit Nomination Remuneration Hansteen Holdings PLC has adopted the principles and provisions of Board Committee Committee Committee the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which can be found Melvyn Egglenton1 7 2 3 6 on the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website www.
Morgan Jones2 7 2 The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups system Ian Watson2 7 2 of internal controls, including the review of its effectiveness and suitable Richard Lowes 7 monitoring procedures, in order to safeguard shareholders investment David Rough3 7 2 4 6 and the assets of the Group as well as the integrity of its accounting Margaret Young4 7 4 4 3 records and provide reliable information for use within the business and Rebecca Worthington 6 4 4 5 for publication.
The Groups system of internal controls is designed to James Hambro5 5 3 manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Humphrey Price6 4 1 1 objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Number of meetings during the year 7 4 4 6 The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the period under review and up to the date of this report.
Melvyn Egglenton was eligible to attend two Audit Committee meetings before his During the course of its review, the Board has not identified nor been resignation from that Committee.
Although also eligible to attend four Nomination advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be Committee meetings, he was excused from one meeting and part of another so significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions that the Committee could deliberate his appointment as Chairman.
The internal control environment will 2.
Either of the Joint Chief Executives attends the Nomination Committee continue to be monitored and reviewed by the Board.
David Rough was eligible to attend two Audit Committee meetings following his appointment to that Committee.
The Company complied throughout the year with all relevant provisions 4.
Margaret Young was eligible to attend three Remuneration Committee meetings set out in the Code with the exception of provision D. 1.1 relating to following her appointment to that Committee.
The current remuneration policy does not contain 5.
James Hambro was eligible to attend five Board meetings and three Remuneration malus and clawback provisions for the annual performance related Committee meetings before his retirement.
Although also eligible to attend two Nomination Committee meetings before his retirement, he was excused so that bonus, PSP and Founder LTIP schemes because provision D. 1.1 was the Committee could deliberate his succession.
introduced to the Code after the current remuneration policy was 6.
Humphrey Price was eligible to attend four Board meetings, one Audit Committee approved by shareholders and because the Founder LTIP is a legacy meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting before his retirement.
arrangement which was agreed before 27 June 2012.
Proposals to include malus and clawback provisions for the annual performance The roles of the Chairman and Joint Chief Executives related bonus, PSP scheme and Founder LTIP are included in the proposed remuneration policy set out in the Directors Remuneration The division of responsibilities between the role of Chairman and the Policy Report on pages 46 to 52. roles of the Joint Chief Executives is clearly defined, set out in writing and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Company complies with the Corporate Governance Statement requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective working Transparency Rules by virtue of the information included in this of the Board, ensuring that all members of the Board, including in Corporate Governance Statement supplemented by the information particular the Non-Executive Directors, have an opportunity to contained in the Directors Report on pages 53 to 57, the Report ofthe contribute effectively, and that there is appropriate and timely Audit Committee on pages 29 to 32, the Report of the Nomination communication with shareholders.
Committee on pages 33 and 34 and the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 35 to 52.
The Joint Chief Executives are responsible for the strategic direction and operational and financial performance of the Group, having been Leadership delegated this responsibility by the Board.
The role of the Board of Directors Effectiveness The Board is responsible to the shareholders of the Company for Composition of the Board thestrategy and future development of the Group and the efficient management of its resources.
As a result, the Board has a schedule of The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three independent matters reserved for its decision, which includes approval of annual Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The biographies budgets, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital of these Directors are set out on pages 24 and 25.
All Directors will offer projects, the raising of finance and management policies.
The themselves for re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors also meet the property valuers independent of management to discuss the year-end and half-year property James Hambro, Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, retired from valuations.
The Board meets at least five times a year with ad hoc the Board on 23 August 2016 and was succeeded by Melvyn Egglenton meetings as required.
who had previously served as Senior Independent Director since 8 June 2015 and as a Non-Executive Director since his appointment to the Board and Committee meeting attendance Board on 10 June 2014.
Melvyn Egglenton was considered to be independent on his appointment as Chairman.
The schedule below sets out the number of principal Board and Committee meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2016 Humphrey Price, a Non-Executive Director, retired from the Board on together with individual attendance by Board members at those meetings.
6 June 2016 and David Rough, who was originally appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015, succeeded Melvyn Egglenton as Senior Independent Director.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Corporate governance framework continued All of the Directors are considered to be able to allocate sufficient The evaluation process was conducted through a series of timeto the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
questionnaires, these covering: Atthe time of appointment, all Directors are made aware of the time commitment necessary to discharge their responsibilities and the strategy and risk-taking: letters of appointment for the Chairman and each Non-Executive leadership and accountability: Director set out an anticipated time commitment.
In addition to his management succession: roleas Chairman of Hansteen Holdings PLC, Melvyn Egglenton is Board and committee operations and culture: Chairman of Pendragon PLC, Director of the James Family Trusts risk management: and andNon-Executive Director of Soho Estates Holdings Limited and terms of reference, roles and engagement of committees.
The aim of the evaluation process was to identify what was working The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, each of whom well, as well as the areas needing additional focus and the information has no day-to-day involvement in the running of the Company, are needed to improve processes and meetings.
Overall the Board and independent from management, have no commercial, financial or other Committees were found to be working well and no major concerns or connection with the Company, other than as a shareholder, and are able systemic issues were identified thus recognising the amount of work to exercise independent judgement.
that the Board and senior management team has undertaken during the year to improve procedures in a number of areas.
The service agreements of the Executive Directors and terms and conditions of the Non-Executive Directors appointments are available The Board is confident that the performance of the Board and the for inspection at the Companys Annual General Meeting or at the Committees was and is effective and that all Directors demonstrate full Companys registered office.
commitment in their respective roles.
A full review of the composition of each of the Committees was undertaken during the year following Appointments to the Board the retirements of Humphrey Price and James Hambro.
Changes in the composition of the Committees are detailed in their respective reports.
In compliance with the Code, the Board has established a Nomination Committee.
The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to keep Accountability under review the composition of the Board, to plan for its refreshment, with regard to balance and structure, and to consider issues of succession.
In compliance with the Code, the Board has established an Audit The appointment of new Directors is a matter for the Board as a whole, Committee.
The primary roles of the Audit Committee are to increase following recommendations made by the Nomination Committee.
shareholder confidence in the credibility and objectivity of the Groups published financial information, assist the Board in meeting its financial The Nomination Committee works from terms of reference and these reporting responsibilities, ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk the Groups risk management and control procedures and oversee the Groups relationship with the external auditors.
The Nomination Committees report is set out on pages 33 and 34, and should be read in conjunction with this Corporate Governance Statement.
The Audit Committee works from terms of reference and these are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk Information and support provided to the Board The Audit Committees report is set out on pages 29 to 32 and should The Board is supplied, in a timely fashion, with the information it needs be read in conjunction with this Corporate Governance Statement.
to enable it to discharge its duties.
In between Board meetings, the Board receives a monthly performance pack containing detailed Remuneration information on the entire property portfolio.
The Board is also kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changing commercial In compliance with the Code, the Board has established a Remuneration risks, and each Director has access to independent professional advice Committee.
The primary role of the Remuneration Committee is to and the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
determine and recommend to the Board the specific pay and benefits packages for the Executive Directors, to ensure that they are fairly, but responsibly, rewarded for their individual contributions to the Groups overall Evaluation of the Board and its Committees performance taking into account their existing contractual entitlements.
The Board formally evaluates its performance and that of its Committees annually.
The Remuneration Committee works from terms of reference and these are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk The Chairman met with each of the Non-Executive Directors to evaluate their individual performances and the Non-Executive The Remuneration Committees report is set out on pages 35 to 52 and Directors met without the Chairman present to evaluate his should be read in conjunction with this Corporate Governance Statement.
Relations with shareholders In line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, during 2016 the Board also undertook an external evaluation process.
The Executive Directors regularly meet with institutional shareholders The evaluation process was facilitated by Independent Audit Limited, and analysts.
Private investors are also encouraged to meet with the anorganisation which, other than acting as advisers in the Board Board and to participate in the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairmen evaluation process, has no connection with the Company.
of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions, where appropriate, at the Annual General Meeting.
In January 2017, the Company Chairman and Chair of the Remuneration Committee met with a number of major shareholders to discuss proposed changes to the remuneration packages of the Joint Chief Executives.
Further details are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 35 to 52.
28 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
