74 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Nomination and Review Committee Dear shareholder Statement on diversity policy The Nomination and Review Committee, 2016 has been an important and busy and the Board, have always recognised year for the Committee.
the importance of boardroom diversity, providing a wide range of perspectives, As Chairman of the Committee it is my and the Committees policy is to seek to responsibility to ensure that we follow ensure that a range of suitable candidates a robust process and best governance is taken into account when drawing up practice whenever key decisions are longlists and shortlists.
The priority of the taken, in particular relating to new Committee is to ensure that the Group appointments and when considering continues to have the most effective the composition of the Board.
Board possible and all appointments Highlights of 2016 to the Board are made on merit against Chairman succession planning We continue to have more than 27 per objective criteria.
Externally facilitated Board evaluation cent female representation on the Board.
The Board is supportive of Lord Davies Board composition Members in 2016 aspirational target of 33 per cent female The Committees discussions regarding Chairman Board representation by 2020.
Further the composition of the Board continue to Patrick Burgess information regarding our diversity policy be framed by the Companys previously Chairman of the Board is set out below.
stated goal of reducing the overall size Members of the Board.
The Committee is satisfied Andrew Huntley Responsibilities and how they were that the balance of skills, knowledge Independent Non-Executive Director discharged in 2016 and experience on the Board and its Louise Patten The principal role of the Nomination and Committees is appropriate.
Independent Non-Executive Director Review Committee is to evaluate the skills Neil Sachdev until 4 May 2016 available on the Board and to determine Succession planning Independent Non-Executive Director when appointments and retirements The Committee chaired by Andrew are appropriate.
Huntley without my attendance when Areas of focus 2017 discussing chairman succession, has Continue refreshing of In addition to its key responsibilities been co-ordinating the search for a new Board composition in line with set out above, the Committee is also chairman and senior independent succession plans responsible for carrying out the annual director, in line with relevant Board Ensure smooth succession performance evaluation of the Board, its policies, and with appropriate input from of the Chairman Committees and individual Directors, as an independent executive search rm well as making recommendations on Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann.
appointments to the Board, including the induction programme for newly I am pleased to announce John Strachan appointed directors, and on succession as my successor.
Those Non-Executive Directors executive director since October 2015 and who have served on the Board for six brings a wealth of experience from the years or more have been subject to a retail property sector in the UK and particularly rigorous review.
The Committee carried out a formal Talent, training and development Board performance evaluation Talent development is a key focus of the process, the outcome of which is Committee and a comprehensive talent summarised opposite.
and leadership programme, including succession planning, has been The Committee met four times in 2016 implemented for senior management with its main focus on the composition across the Group.
The Committee of the Board and succession planning, in receives regular update reports regarding particular for the chairman and the senior progress and remains confident in the independent director.
future potential of the Groups most promising executives and staff.
Governance Nomination and Review Committee 75 The Chairman, with the assistance of Re-election of non-executive the Nomination and Review Committee, directors Induction for new directors regularly considers the need for directors All Non-Executive Directors will submit There is a comprehensive induction to update and expand their skills and themselves for re-election at the programme for new directors which is knowledge.
Training is provided for forthcoming annual general meeting tailored by the Chairman, in consultation non-executive directors in the form in May 2017, with the exception of with the Chief Executive and Company of presentations at Board meetings, myself and Andrew Huntley, our Secretary, depending on the type of attendance at relevant seminars Senior Independent Director, as we appointment.
The programme ordinarily and courses.
are both stepping down from the includes meetings with Board members, Board at that point.
senior management and external advisers, The Board also recognises the need for as well as a high-level review of all current directors to keep up-to-date with relevant Patrick Burgess projects, Board strategy and an in-depth legislative and regulatory developments Chairman review of the Groups assets.
Additional as well as changes to corporate 23 February 2017 elements are added to the programme governance best practice and investor on discussion between the Chairman and expectations.
The Company Secretary the individual director.
reports to each Board meeting on these Where required, the Company Secretary matters, drawing attention to any issues provides guidance or facilitates the of particular relevance.
provision of training on directors duties under the Companies Act 2006 and on legal, regulatory and governance matters with which the Company, Board and individual directors must comply.
Performance evaluation Every year, the Board conducts a performance evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, the Chairman reviews the performance of each Director and the Senior Independent Director oversees the review of the Chairmans performance.
The evaluation exercise conducted during 2015 identied three areas requiring attention during 2016.
Progress against those areas is shown in the table below: Areas identied for attention in 2016 Action taken Board succession planning As outlined on page 74 the Committee has overseen the process for the succession of the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director Nomination and Review Board succession is a standard agenda item Committee Board Committees Board Committees terms of reference were reviewed and all independent non-executive directors have been invited to attend any committee meeting if they so wish, irrespective of their formal membership 2016 performance evaluation This involved an external independent facilitator, Lintstock, engaging with the Chairman and Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation and tailor surveys for all directors to the specic circumstances of intu.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate governance consultancy and has no commercial dealings with the Group, other than for the provision of corporate governance services to the Board.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
As a result of the analysis, among other things the Board agreed that it should continue to devote attention to succession planning, consider the balance between presentation and discussion at meetings, and continue to spend more time discussing strategic topics.
In 2017, it is envisaged that Lintstock will facilitate an interview-driven review of the Board and its Committees, building upon the trends and themes in the output of the 2016 evaluation.
