30 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Our business model Relationships People are what make us tick.
Building and maintaining effective relationships is fundamental to our continued success Customers Retailers Investors Why they matter Our customers are at the heart Strong relationships with our We aim to deliver long-term value of everything we do.
We need to retailers, both existing and new, to our investors through strong, understand their ever-changing is fundamental.
We want to make stable income streams and capital needs to ensure that our centres sure our centres are the places appreciation.
In turn this ensures we continually evolve to meet their where their stores ourish by always have the ability to move the requirements.
Get this right and providing them with a high footfall business forward.
Understanding the we attract them from further, of happy shoppers.
This enhances requirements and concerns of both more often and for longer.
the customer experience and existing and potential investors is ultimately delivers rental income.
How we have engaged in 2016 Tell intu customer feedback shared customer research with conducted 380 meetings programme had 20,000 retailers helping them to optimise with investment institutions responses this year their position across our portfolio hosted regular investor visits shopper view, a research panel attended and hosted a wide range to our centres to show how of 1,200 customers, participated of industry events we are meeting our objectives in 29 projects hosted merchants association engaged in a wide range of focus groups to support meetings at each centre throughout Environmental, Social and development of shopper the year Governance indices with high tribes insight established a formal customer performance year-on-year public consultation for major relationship management attended investor conferences projects in the development pipeline programme, allocating key in the UK and internationally account managers carried out new research into the dynamics of international retailers investing in the UK See our customer insight on page 16 See our retailer insight on page 17 See relations with shareholders on page 67 For more information on when we engage our stakeholders to meet our strategic objectives see pages 32 and 33 Strategic report Relationships 31 Suppliers Local and national Our people government We rely on our suppliers to help Enduring relationships with Our employees are critical to our business run smoothly, from local authorities, town centre the success of the business.
In day-to-day operations through to the management and MPs is vital to centres, they are the face of intu construction of major developments.
Our centres are at the and delivering our brand promise It is essential we have open and heart of many of the towns and is central to making both transparent relationships and ensure cities where we operate and in which customers and retailers happy.
our suppliers maintain the same high we play a vital community role.
In Employee engagement is key standards we set ourselves.
some the local authority is our to a motivated workforce.
invited new suppliers to attend hosted our annual constituency conducted our annual employee brand immersion sessions MPs parliamentary dinner satisfaction survey held pre-construction meetings had 31 meetings with MPs in engaged with our employees to communicate intu standards centre or at Westminster using Toolbox talks and and expectations provided submissions to employee consultation forums recruited a new supply chain government consultations on published a new staff magazine, manager and coordinator relevant policy areas Chorus, to supplement the intranet actively participated in eight rolled out our national Business Improvement Districts apprenticeship programme BIDs and town centre evolved our reward and recognition partnerships programme Win Your Dream, worked with local authorities to that recognises outstanding progress our development pipeline demonstration of the intu brand promise Read more in our 2016 CR report Read more in our 2016 CR report See our people on page 55
