62 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Executive Committee Martin Breeden Hugh Ford Barbara Gibbes Susan Marsden Development Director General Counsel and Group Director of Finance Group Company Secretary Joined the Group in 2002 and was Joined the Group as Director of Joined the Group as Company Treasurer appointed Group Development Finance in January 2017 from Secretary in 2000.
A fellow of Joined the Group as General Counsel Director in January 2016.
Martin has Dominos Pizza Group Plc where she the Institute of Chartered Secretaries in 2003.
Appointed General Counsel & direct responsibility for intus was Group Financial Controller.
and Administrators, Susan began her Group Treasurer in April 2015. development programme across the Previously she held other senior career at the London Stock Exchange, Previously he was General Manager UK and intus Spanish business.
Martin finance roles and was a Director at and was Company Secretary of two Legal at Virgin Atlantic Airways, and has over 25 years experience in the Deloitte.
She qualied as a chartered FTSE real estate sector companies before that a commercial lawyer with retail property industry.
He is a fellow accountant in 2000. before joining intu.
He qualied as a of the RICS and a member of the solicitor in 1992 with Freshelds.
Gordon McKinnon Trevor Pereira Dushyant Sangar Julian Wilkinson Operations Director Digital and Commercial Corporate Development Asset Management Director Joined the Group as Operations Joined the Group in 2011 and was Director Director Director, CSC Trafford in January 2011 appointed Asset Management Joined the Group in 2007 as Joined the Group in 2010 and and became a Regional Centre Director in January 2016.
He was appointed Corporate Development Director in January 2013, before taking responsibility for optimising the subsequently appointed Group Digital Director in 2014.
He has been closely on the role of Operations Director of performance of intus shopping and Commercial Director, responsible involved in all of the Groups major intu in November 2013.
He has held similar positions for digital activities, commercialisation, acquisitions in the UK and Spain.
He years in various roles with Marks & at director level over the last 25 years marketing and customer experience.
previously worked for MGPA, a real Spencer before taking up an on behalf of both retailers and He previously worked for airport group estate private equity investment assignment with Manchester landlords and is a fellow of the RICS.
BAA plc for 21 years, latterly as Retail advisory business and for UBS.
He is a Millennium Limited, the task force and Commercial Director for Non-Executive Director of Prozone rebuilding Manchester city centre Heathrow Airport.
He was appointed Director of Operations at The Trafford Centre in 2004.
Senior management team Biographies of the senior management team are available on our website at: intugroup.
co. uk en about-us our-people
