Governance The Board 63 The Board The role of the Board Led by the Chairman, the Board takes primary responsibility for dening the Groups strategic objectives, risk appetite and control The and its committees environment: monitoring delivery of strategy by the Executive Board Directors: and shaping the resourcing, culture and values by which the wider business delivers targeted performance.
Corporate Responsibility Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Review Chairman Chairman Committee Committee Adle Anderson Louise Patten Chairman Chairman Members Members Patrick Burgess Patrick Burgess Andrew Strang, Adle Anderson, Andrew Huntley Members Members Rakhi Goss-Custard Key responsibilities Adle Anderson, David Fischel, Andrew Huntley, Louise Patten Key responsibilities Sets remuneration policy for the Alexander Nicoll, Helen Drury, Key responsibilities Monitors the integrity ofnancial Executive Directors and the Jennifer Sandars Ensures the Board comprises people statements, internal controls and Chairman and recommends Key responsibilities with an appropriate balance of skills, risk management process and and monitors the level and Oversees the management of knowledge and experience.
reviews the effectiveness of the structure of remuneration the Groups CR activities.
all independent NEDs are invited to internal and external auditors.
attend when discussing Board succession See page 52 for more See page 69 for more See page 76 for more See page 74 for more information information information information Capital Projects Committee Key responsibilities Executive Committee Key responsibilities Chairman Reviews new projects and Chairman Considers investment proposals, Patrick Burgess expenditure in detail and makes David Fischel reviews progress on projects and project expenditure in detail and Members recommendations to the Board on Members receives updates on other business David Fischel, Matthew Roberts, certain projects, as appropriate.
Has Matthew Roberts, Martin Breeden, matters.
Has delegated authority, John Whittaker, Andrew Huntley, no power to approve proposals Hugh Ford, Barbara Gibbes, within limits, to authorise initiatives John Strachan orauthorise expenditure.
Susan Marsden, Gordon McKinnon, and expenditure.
The Capital Projects Committee Trevor Pereira, Dushyant Sangar, The Executive Committee is not is not a formal Committee of Julian Wilkinson a formal Committee of the Board the Board Key strategic matters discussed in 2016 Optimising asset Delivering UK developments Making the brand count Seizing the growth performance opportunity in Spain management and oversight supported the development review and approval of the the Groups Spanish strategy of the Groups capital of the Groups digital strategy Groups strategic plan and discussion of potential investment programme large-scale national marketing approval of renancings acquisitions and development considered recommendations events across all centres disposal of intu Bromley monitoring performance of from Capital Projects regular Corporate disposal of interest in Spanish assets Committee Responsibility Committee Equity One development plans for development pipeline of meetings acquisition of remaining 50 per intu Costa del Sol 1.9 billion cent interest in intu Merry Hill Other key matters discussed Areas of focus in 2017 continuing focus on risk modelling and analysis, including continuation of progressive evolution of the Board, in line cybersecurity risk and the impact of the UKs EU referendum vote with agreed succession planning and to meet the demands 375 million issue of Guaranteed Convertible Bonds by subsidiary of the business due 2022 completion of Nomination and Review Committee oversight monitoring and progression of corporate objectives for 2016 of Board succession matters succession planning for both the Chairman and Senior Independent monitoring and progression of corporate objectives for 2017 Directors scheduled retirement continuing oversight of strategic and operational delivery continued oversight of strategic and operational delivery continuing focus on the impact of the UKs EU referendum vote 64 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 The Board continued Leadership internal policies, procedures and controls including risk management Board culture The Board and its governance arrangements, delegated authority The Chairman is directly framework limits and a related parties protocol accountable for the culture of The Board is responsible for setting which are regularly reported on, the Board, which is dened by: intus strategic aims and then monitoring reviewed and updated by the managements performance against Board and relevant committees highly experienced and those aims as well as setting the strategic internal processes which are knowledgeable directors, with a framework within which those aims communicated to all staff and wide range of skills and diverse can be achieved.
The business model are available at all times on the perspectives who act condently described on pages 28 and 29 illustrates Groups intranet and are true to themselves the key value creation and operational a conservative, measured approach drivers for intus strategy and the means Each aspect is routinely reviewed by the to business, allied with a willingness by which the Board ultimately delivers Board and updated to satisfy the needs of to take considered risks through long-term growth and sustainable returns the business.
The Board has continued to insightful investment to achieve for shareholders and debt investors.
review its governance framework and has strategic goals adjusted, where necessary, the roles, the relationships between individual Appropriate and effective corporate structure and accountabilities of senior directors and the senior executives, governance is taken seriously at intu and management to reect the demands of which encourage beneficial debate the business.
During the year, the is intrinsic to all aspects of the Boards and open discussion of views governance structure below the Board activities.
Consequently, governance is was reviewed to ensure the correct and interwoven into the activities of The Boards culture permeates accurate ow of information and management, who are accountable to the throughout the Groups operations responsibility.
For instance, following the Board, and all employees who are in turn and is enshrined within intus values, retirement of the Chief Operating accountable to management.
This is which encourage staff to be creative, Officer at the end of 2015, the delegated reinforced by the established coherent bold and genuine at all times.
Further authority limits were revised to reect the governance framework which underpins information on intus culture and increased scale of the Groups operations.
the culture and workings of the Group values can be found on pages 55 to 57.
The role was divided into three parts with clearly dened responsibilities to facilitate decision-making.
Matthew and accountabilities, consisting of: Roberts, Chief Financial Officer, assumed responsibility for centre-based operations Board committees to enable the and two new roles, Development Board to operate effectively and Director and Asset Management Our approach to CR give full consideration to key matters Director, were created.
CR underpins the strategic aims of as shown in the diagram on page 63 our business, creating a long-term delegated authority limits, which and sustainable business that brings apply at all levels of the business and value to all our stakeholders.
are incorporated into all operational procedures ensuring matters are dealt Further details of our related with at the appropriate level activities can be found in the 2016 CR report Structure of the Board and independence Board structure Board independence excludingChairman Gender split Chairman 1 Executives 2 Men 8 Executives 2 Non-Executiv es 6 Women 3 Non-Executives 8 Non Independents 2 Governance The Board 65 Roles and responsibilities Role Responsibility Chairman Patrick Burgess Leading the Board, setting agendas, achieving clarity of decision-making, ensuring effectiveness in all aspects of the Boards remit, driving the culture of accountability and openness and ensuring effective two-way communication with shareholders and between non-executive directors and senior management Chief Executive David Fischel Delivery of Group strategy, primary accountability for day-to-day operational management, implementation of policies and strategies developed by the Board, modelling and setting the Companys culture, and developing the abilities and skills of the Groups personnel to their maximum potential Chief Financial Matthew Roberts Managing the Groups funding strategy, nancing, reporting and investor Officer programme, encompassing leadership of the finance function.
From January 2016 also responsible for intus centre-based operations Independent Adle Anderson, Rakhi GossBringing an external and independent view to the Boards discussions, objectively Non-Executive Custard, Andrew Huntley, scrutinising the performance of management, providing rigorous and constructive Directors Louise Patten, John Strachan, challenge to executive management when appropriate, ensuring financial controls Andrew Strang and risk management are robust, determining appropriate levels of remuneration for management.
Independent non-executive directors are entitled to attend any committee meeting if they wish, without the responsibility of full membership Senior Independent Andrew Huntley Providing advice, additional support and experience to the Chairman as required.
Director Available to act as an intermediary for the other directors if necessary.
Leads the appraisal of the Chairmans performance annually in conjunction with the other non-executive directors and is available as an additional point of contact to shareholders Non-Independent Richard Gordon, John Whittaker intu has representatives of two major shareholders appointed as non-executive Non-Executive directors the Deputy Chairman John Whittaker and Richard Gordon.
Direct Directors shareholder Board representation, with appropriate management of conicts, ensures that key strategic, operational and governance decision-making is more closely aligned with the interests of the direct shareholder groups they represent and other institutional and retail investors generally.
In this respect the Group surpasses the expectations of the Stewardship Code.
The representative directors also contribute strongly to the Boards culture and personality, adding insight and constructive challenge from their varied commercial backgrounds, their experience and expertise Alternate Directors Steven Underwood, In accordance with the Companys articles of association, John Whittaker and Richard Raymond Fine Gordon have appointed Steven Underwood and Raymond Fine respectively as their alternates.
The Board has generally invited the alternates to attend Board meetings T he Board reviews the independence of its non-executive directors on an annual basis.
With the exception of John Whittaker and Richard Gordon, the Board has concluded that all other non-executive directors are independent.
Biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 60 and 61 Board relevant sector experience percentage of Board Length of tenure of Directors 0 3 years 2 Property 81% Digital 9% Legal 9% 3 6 years 2 6 9 years 5 9 years 2 Retail 81% Financial 27% Governance 18% 66 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 The Board continued Effectiveness Board meetings Balance and composition Board agendas are shaped to create time for strategic discussion and debate with time The Nomination and Review Committee allocated to routine matters being closely managed.
regularly reviews the composition of the Board attendance table 2016 Board to ensure that it operates efficiently Nomination and has access to a broad range of 1 Board Audit & Review Remuneration knowledge and viewpoints.
The Board 2 4 2 4 Patrick Burgess 4 4 4 4 3 3 4 4 determined that new candidates for the John Whittaker 4 4 role of non-executive director should 4 4 4 David Fischel 4 4 3 4 3 3 3 4 have sector-relevant qualications and 4 Matthew Roberts 4 4 4 4 experience notably in property, retail, Andrew Huntley 4 4 3 3 4 4 finance or digital, to ensure that these 2 Adle Anderson 4 4 4 4 4 4 key areas are well-represented while Richard Gordon 4 4 also having regard to wider business Rakhi Goss-Custard 4 4 4 4 knowledge and diverse backgrounds 2 Louise Patten 4 4 3 3 3 3 which can be beneficial to the Group.
3 Neil Sachdev 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 John Strachan 4 4 The appropriate balance of skills, Andrew Strang 4 4 3 4 independence, experience and knowledge does not in itself ensure the efficient 1 S cheduled Board meetings only, excludes Board away day, Spanish centres visit and Board update conference calls.
To this end, the 2 Board or Committee chairman.
Chairmans style and leadership of the 3 Neil Sachdev stepped down from the Board following the 4 May 2016 annual general meeting.
Board are essential to creating an 4 Attends meetings in a non-voting capacity.
environment where the non-executive directors are able to draw on their own At each scheduled Board meeting, the Executive Directors, Asset Management, Development experience to constructively challenge and Commercial Directors each provide updates on their key areas of responsibility.
In the views of the executive management.
addition, the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Review Committees The Chairman facilitates this by drawing give updates on the workings of and progress made by those Committees, highlighting any on the non-executive directors range areas requiring escalation to, or consideration by, the full Board.
Other matters for discussion of experiences to provide insight and are added to the agenda for scheduled Board meetings, or discussed at additionally convened alternative perspectives and has invited Board meetings, as required.
all independent non-executive directors to attend any committee, irrespective of whether they are formally a member of such committee.
Conicts of interest The Board has adopted a formal The Chairmans The balance of the Board is illustrated procedure under which directors must style and leadership on page 64. notify the Chairman of any potential conicts.
The Chairman then decides of the Board are Time commitment whether a conict exists and essential to creating an and external activities recommends its authorisation by the Non-executive directors are appointed Board where appropriate.
In certain environment where the for a three-year term and their continuing circumstances, the conicted director non-executive directors service thereafter is subject to review may be required to refuse himself from by the Board and annual re-election the Boards discussions on a matter in are able to draw on their by shareholders.
Their annual time which he or she is conicted.
Directors own experience to commitment varies with specified must also notify the Chairman when they minimum requirements within the terms take on any additional responsibilities or constructively challenge of their appointment and is assessed as external appointments, and it is their the views of the executive part of each directors annual review.
responsibility to ensure that such Each Director has demonstrated that appointments will not prevent them management.
he or she has sufficient time to devote from meeting the time commitments to their present role at intu.
Governance The Board 67 Board oversight of Communication Relations with risk management Directors are kept fully informed of shareholders The effective assessment and progress on key matters, including management of risk is key to the delivery We place considerable emphasis on operational and financial performance, of the Groups strategy.
The setting of maintaining an open and frank dialogue between formal meetings.
This is the Groups risk appetite by the Board with investors.
Our programme of investor achieved by way of either scheduled provides the framework within which relations activities involves members of conference calls or less formal update the Groups risk management the Executive Committee including, on meetings in months where there is process operates.
occasion, the Chairman and the Head of no formal Board meeting scheduled.
We seek to develop Ad hoc meetings and working visits to The Board has overall responsibility for existing and potential investors centres are also regularly arranged to risk management and the Audit understanding of intus business strategy, support the Chairmans policy of open Committee monitors and reviews the operations, performance and investment communication.
The chairmen of the effectiveness of the risk management case.
This provides the Board and Executive Audit Committee and Remuneration process ensuring that the appropriate Committee with an insight into the differing Committee communicate regularly governance and challenge around risk views of intus institutional and other and directly with relevant staff and is embedded throughout the business.
significant investors as well as those of external advisers, including but not retail shareholders.
limited to the Head of Risk and Internal The Groups risk management process Audit, the Company Secretary and Key activities in 2016 included: is set out in more detail on pages 36 and Deloitte, who act as the Remuneration results meetings and update calls: 37, and the Groups principal risks are Committees consultants.
an average of 50 institutions attended discussed on pages 38 and 39.
As part each announcement of the Governance Framework all The Chairman and Company Secretary road show meetings: following results recommendations to the Board must ensure that all Directors are provided announcements we conducted around include specic consideration of potential with accurate and timely information 170 meetings in the UK, South Africa, risks to ensure this aspect is given due to facilitate informed discussion at US and Europe consideration while still permitting the Board meetings.
investor conferences: we attended Board to act decisively.
nine real estate conferences organised by investment banks, meeting Many of the risks to which the Group is 130 institutions exposed have remained broadly in line site visits: toured Puerto Venecia, with 2015.
One of the principal changes in intu Eldon Square and intu Metrocentre the period was the increased uncertainty in the year, with 35 investors and 12 in the UK economy and real estate sell-side analysts markets following the vote on 23 June interaction with sell-side analysts: 2016 for the UK to leave the European engaged with analysts from around 20 Union.
This is discussed in further detail institutions to ensure the insight of their on page 38. research was accurate 380 380 inin five vs e ts o tr o in r in tetre arc atc io tio ns ns in in 2 2 01 0 6 16
