Governance Audit Committee 69 Audit Committee Dear shareholder Responsibilities The Audit Committees key As the Chairman of the Audit Committee responsibilities are to monitor and review: it is my role to present to you the Audit Committee report for 2016. the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of The Committee has this year continued the significant financial reporting to focus on risk management, particularly judgements and accounting policies in relation to the evolving digital the effectiveness of the Groups environment, our developments in the internal control and risk management UK and our expanding operations in the effectiveness of the internal Spain.
The Committee has reviewed the audit function, including the Areas of focus in 2016 results of the risk review performed by work programme undertaken by cybersecurity the Board, and also overseen the the function international operations implementation of key recommendations the Groups policy on and approach audit tender process following the independent review of the to whistleblowing viability statement intu risk process performed at the end of the Groups overall approach to last year.
The Groups approach to risk monitoring areas of risk Members in 2016 management is described in detail on the Companys relationship with pages 36 and 37 and the principal risks the external auditor, including Chairman are detailed on pages 38 and 39. its independence Adle Anderson Independent Non-Executive Director Following our annual review of auditor Main activities during the year Members quality and independence see page 71 The Audit Committee considered the Rakhi Goss-Custard for more detail, we have recommended following key matters in 2016: Independent Non-Executive Director that  PwC be Neil Sachdev until 4 May 2016 reappointed for the 2017 audit.
valuation of the Groups Independent Non-Executive Director investment property Andrew Strang The EU Audit Regulation 537 2014 and the Groups cybersecurity plans Independent Non-Executive Director Audit Directive 2014 56 EU became accounting treatment of the most applicable from 17 June 2016 and must significant transactions including the For members other board appointments, be implemented in the UK from that acquisition of the remaining 50 per skills and experience see Board of Directors on date.
These limit the length of tenure cent of intu Merry Hill, the issue of pages 60 and 61 an audit rm can serve, and put in place convertible bonds and the disposal of Areas of focus in 2017 requirements for the audit tender process intu Bromley developments as detailed below.
PwC has been intus financial control of the international operations audit rm for more than 20 years and Spanish business culture a tender process is in progress such that, the 2016 internal audit plan and completion of audit tender process allowing for transition, a new audit rm audit charter will be in place for the year ending the viability statement 31 December 2018. items classied as exceptional the results of a review of the carrying value of the Groups investment in Prozone the Groups counter-terrorism approach the Groups supply chain processes valuation of the Groups swap portfolio the Groups approach to tax risk 70 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Audit Committee continued Key financial reporting and These issues were discussed by the significant judgements Committee following nalisation During the year the Committee of the audit.
discussed the planning, progress and final conclusions of the external audit The Committee takes into account process.
The audit plan was reviewed the views of the external auditor in and approved at the July 2016 Committee understanding and assessing whether meeting.
The significant risk areas suitable accounting policies have been identied were: investment property adopted, whether management has valuations: significant transactions during made appropriate estimates and the year: revenue recognition: and judgements and whether disclosures management override of controls.
The main issues International Standards on Auditing discussed by the Committee in the UK and Ireland identify these latter year are detailed in the table below.
two risks as significant for all companies.
Issue Action taken Valuation of investment For the interim results at 30 June the Audit Committee carried out a review of the investment property valuations.
and development property The full Board carried out a review of the 31 December valuations included in this report.
Due to the overall importance of the valuations to the Groups results, the relevant Audit Committee meeting included a presentation from Knight Frank as part of the discussions considering the valuation process.
The Audit Committee review included discussion with management and the auditor of the key assumptions and results of the valuation process undertaken by the independent third party valuers.
This review also included understanding which general factors had inuenced the valuers in concluding on appropriate yields to use in the valuations.
This involved factors affecting both the investment and occupier markets and recent comparable market transactions.
Particular emphasis was given to understanding the factors that had resulted in individual property valuations being either signicantly above or below the average movement in the Groups valuations.
Presentation of information Operating through joint ventures is a core part of intus strategy.
Management both review and monitor the business, including the Groups share of joint ventures, on an individual line basis not on a post-tax profit or net investment basis.
The gures and commentary presented in the strategic report have therefore been presented consistently with this management approach.
Reconciliations between the management and statutory bases are provided in the other information section on pages 168 to 170.
The Committee has reviewed the prominence given to both statutory information and information on a management basis, and concluded that the approach adopted provides the most useful analysis of the results for the year.
Going concern The Companys going concern review, which is based on an 18-month cash ow projection with particular focus on the next 12 months, was discussed with management.
The projections cover the major trading cash ows, being rental income and interest expense, and capital expenditure plans in the context of the latest debt maturity prole.
Stress tests of the projections were considered, covering reductions in the value of the Groups properties as well as alternative capital funding scenarios and what impact such changes may have on both the Groups liquidity and its ability to meet the financial covenants on its debt facilities.
The discussion also considered what actions were available to the Group to mitigate the impact of such reductions on the cash ow projections.
Following discussions with management, the Committee agreed with the conclusions reached and the treatments relating to the above issues adopted in these financial statements.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of The UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than that required in adopting the going concern basis of accounting.
The viability statement is included on page 68 and sets out the conclusion of that assessment.
The Audit Committee assessed the viability position and reported its recommendations to the Board.
Governance Audit Committee 71 External auditor The tender process commenced during Fair, balanced and understandable The Audit Committee has assessed 2016 and will conclude during the first At the request of the Board, the Committee the effectiveness of the external auditor, half of 2017 such that, allowing for considered whether the 2016 annual report PwC, in line with the approach set out in transition, a new audit rm will be in place was fair, balanced and understandable the Financial Reporting Councils Audit for the year ending 31 December 2018. and whether it provided the necessary Quality Practice Aid.
In carrying out the The Company has compiled a shortlist of information for shareholders to assess evaluation the Audit Committee has held potential rms based on selection criteria, conrmation of both independence and intus performance, business model, discussions without the auditor, asked the wish to tender, as well as meetings with position and strategy.
As part of its auditor to explain the risks to audit quality potential lead audit partners.
The formal considerations the Committee took into that they have identied and their phase of the tender process will account the preparation process detailed rm-wide controls relied upon, enquired commence shortly.
below which, together with opinions of about the findings from internal and key executives and the external auditor, external inspections of their audit, The EU Audit Regulation 537 2014 has been designed to assist the Audit challenged the auditors strategy and and Audit Directive 2014 56 EU Committee in reaching its view: plan and discussed the outputs of the the regulations became applicable in audit with the auditor.
This included direct at an early stage, a matrix is the UK from 17 June 2016, and apply to meetings, review of reporting issued by produced identifying key themes and the Group for the period from 1 January the external auditor and review of the sections in which those themes 2017.
The above plans are in line with the independent reports: should be reected requirements of these.
individual sections of the annual report senior finance staff reviewed the are drafted by appropriate senior A resolution to reappoint PwC for the detailed execution of the 2015 audit management with regular review 2017 audit will be proposed at the 2017 plan with the engagement team and meetings to ensure consistency across annual general meeting.
The Committee identied specic improvements for the whole document will continue to review the effectiveness the 2016 plan a verication process is undertaken and independence of the external auditor the report of the Financial Reporting to ensure that information contained each year.
Council FRC s May 2016 Audit is appropriately supported and Quality Inspection review of PwC was factually accurate reviewed and found to be supportive Non-audit services detailed reviews of drafts of the annual of the rms overall systems of During 2016 the Group had a policy to report are undertaken by members of quality control ensure that the provision of any non-audit the Executive Committee and other the Chairman of the Audit Committee services by the incumbent external senior management and the Chief Financial Officer each auditor did not impair the external drafts are discussed with the Groups met privately with a senior partner of auditors independence or objectivity.
legal advisors and brokers PwC unrelated to the engagement to a final draft is reviewed by the Audit review the performance of the rm The Audit Committee had delegated to Committee and discussed with senior the Audit Committee reviewed the the Executive Directors the authority to management prior to consideration audit plan provided by PwC, including contract for non-audit services with the by the Board the risks identied and its approach external auditor up to a specified value, to these subject to consideration whether As a result of its considerations the proposed arrangements would maintain Committee is satisfied that, taken The Company has complied with the audit independence, as well as the as a whole, the annual report is fair, provisions of The Statutory Audit Services external auditor satisfying the Company balanced and understandable and has for Large Companies Market Investigation that independence would be maintained.
recommended it as such to the Board.
Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee The Audit Committee had considered Responsibilities Order 2014 and in doing the option of putting material non-audit so has applied the transitional provisions work out to tender.
While recognising related to the audit tender process.
that the circumstances of a particular transaction may have made it most sensible to use the incumbent external auditor for such work for example where the nature of the transaction would not allow a new rm sufficient time to assimilate the requisite knowledge of the Groups operations in order to carry out 72 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Audit Committee continued the non-audit work, the Audit Committee The three-year average ratio of non-audit had recommended that non-audit fees to audit fees is 71 per cent.
The work should be undertaken by higher levels of non-audit fees in 2014 someone other than the external principally related to reporting auditor wherever practical.
accountant work in respect of raising debt and the 2014 rights issue the analysis does not remove certain non-audit fees Details of the amounts paid to the which are now excluded from the external auditor for audit and non-audit calculation of the ratio.
services are included in note 9 to the financial statements.
The Company engaged PwC to carry out certain Risk management and non-audit work in 2016 including internal control assurance services in respect of the The Board has overall responsibility to Groups 2016 interim report.
The above oversee the Groups system of internal safeguards were adhered to when control and to keep its effectiveness awarding this non-audit work and fees under review, as well as to determine the paid to PwC in respect of non-audit work nature and extent of the risks it is willing represented 7 per cent of audit fees paid.
to take in achieving its strategic objectives During 2016 the Group used accounting based on the balance of potential risks rms other than PwC for a number and reward.
The Groups approach to risk of assignments.
management is described in detail on pages 36 and 37 and the principal risks On 1 January 2017 the Group are detailed on pages 38 and 39. implemented the FRCs Ethical Standard for Auditors which imposes restrictions on The Audit Committee oversees the certain non-audit services.
A number of Boards annual review of the effectiveness non-audit services are prohibited and of the risk management and internal others require approval by the Audit control systems.
During this review the Committee.
There is an overall fee limit of Board has not identied nor been made 70 per cent of the average of audit fees aware of any failing or weakness which it charged in the past three years, and has determined to be significant.
hence the fee limit comes into force for the financial year to 31 December 2020.
The key elements taken into account in this review include: Consequently, from 1 January 2017 the Audit Committee now has sole authority the Groups internal audit functions to contract for non-audit services with the work during the year see page 73 external auditor subject to observing the Groups risk management process certain guidelines including: the Groups controls over its financial reporting process including: the the Audit Committee must consider comprehensive system for reporting whether the proposed arrangements results to the Board for review and will maintain audit independence consideration: the review process the external auditor must satisfy underlying the production of the the Company that it is acting consolidated financial statements: independently and the experience and quality of the team involved in the financial The table below summarises the fees paid reporting processes to the auditor over the last three years.
the status of the independent review 2016 2015 2014 000 000 000 Audit fees 705 628 566 Non-audit fees 48 96 1,074 Total fees paid to auditor 753 724 1,640 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 7% 15% 190% Governance Audit Committee 73 Internal audit There were five whistleblowing incidents Committee membership The Group has a risk and internal audit relating to the intu Group during 2016.
The Committee members have been function which reports to the Audit These were: an ex-employee alleging selected to provide the wide range Committee.
The risk and internal audit various operational shortcomings of financial and commercial expertise function reviews internal controls and investigations revealed a personal necessary to full the Committees duties reports to the Audit Committee on grievance, and corrective action was and responsibilities.
The Board is satisfied whether such controls are in place taken : a report that electrical testing was that the Committee has recent and and are being operated effectively.
The not complying with the correct process relevant financial experience for the function covers intu properties plc and allegation was unsubstantiated : a report purposes of the UK Corporate Governance its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
that security staff were leaving a centre Code the Code.
Additionally, in early again, unsubstantiated : a report accordance with the 2016 Corporate The risk and internal audit function has of inappropriate purchasing practices Governance Code applying to the a rolling programme of reviews ensuring between a supplier and certain staff Company from its 2017 financial year the that all centres, functions and areas of investigations led to three employees Board has determined that the current the business are reviewed regularly.
The leaving the business : and a report that composition of the Audit Committee as most significant areas covered in 2016 a centre was not adhering to correct a whole has competence relevant to the included shopping centre healthchecks, purchasing policy investigations sector in which the Company operates.
information and communication led to the centre implementing For full detail of the members experience technology governance, insurance, additional controls.
and skills please see Directors procurement and supply chain, business biographies on pages 60 and 61. information and mergers and acquisitions.
Audit Committee effectiveness Additionally, annual assurance activities As part of the Board evaluation process, were performed, including a review of the the Audit Committee reviewed its own assurance map, gifts and hospitality and effectiveness and this confirmed that executive expenses.
the Committee remained effective at meeting its objectives.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk and internal Adle Anderson audit function and in particular ensures Chairman of the Audit Committee that the function remains sufficiently 23 February 2017 independent of the wider business to ensure it can carry out its work effectively.
An independent review of the risk and internal audit function is carried out every five years and was last performed at the end of 2013.
An external review of the Groups risk management process was carried out at the end of 2015 as discussed in the focus on risk section on pages 36 and 37.
The key recommendations have been implemented during 2016.
Whistleblowing policy The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups whistleblowing policy and procedures, under which employees can raise concerns about possible improprieties whether financial or otherwise within the Group on a condential basis.
The arrangements are monitored by the Committee throughout the year.
All whistleblowing incidents are reported to the Committee and fully investigated with procedures reviewed and improved where appropriate.
