JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 60 Governance Nomination Committee Report Appointments policy and process When considering Board appointments the Board follows formal and transparent procedures to ensure that appointments of Directors are made on merit, having regard to the requirements of the role that will best support the business and promote the success of the Company.
The Committee begins the recruitment process by evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of its existing members, the diversity of the Board and the on-going requirements and strategic developments of the Group.
The search process is then able to focus on appointing a candidate that will complement and enhance the Boards effectiveness and overall performance.
The Committee uses the services of search firms to identify appropriate candidates.
The Committee will only use those firms Statement from the Nomination that have adopted the voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
No CommitteeChairman firms have been retained during the current reporting period.
As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased to A long list of potential appointees is reviewed followed by report on the activities of the Committee for the reporting the shortlisting of candidates for interview based upon the period.
I was appointed Chairman of the Committee at that objective criteria set out in the agreed role specification.
time succeeding Tom Cross Brown, following a number of Non-Executive appointees must be able to demonstrate that changes to the Board and executive management team.
they have sufficient time available to devote to the role and I am pleased to report that the new Board has the necessary prior to appointment all prospective Directors must identify strength, knowledge, skills and experience to successfully whether they have any potential conflicts of interest.
deliver the merger, together with the Groups strategic and business plans.
Short listed appointees are interviewed by the Chairman, other Committee members and the CEO.
The Committee recommends This year it will oversee a streamlining of the Board and the a preferred candidate who is invited to meet other Board executive team, while demonstrating a commitment to members.
Finally, detailed external references are taken and developing talent and improving competition for internal roles.
following this the Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board on the appointment.
Succession planning will form an integral part of the Boards strategy deliberations and as such the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee has met formally on four occasions has a clear focus on both facilitating and delivering progress during the period and considered in addition to the succession on this.
The Committee has commenced a rigorous process to plans set out above: ensure that succession plans for each Board, executive team The proposed changes to the Board following the acquisition and senior management are in place and which can be of Partnership Assurance Group: implemented on a contingency and longer term basis.
the effectiveness review of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and individual Directors which was conducted Committee members through an externally facilitated process: The membership of the Committee changed at the date of keeping under review the independence of the Non-Executive the acquisition of Partnership, with Steve Melcher leaving the Directors, considering the judgement, thinking and Committee and myself, Paul Bishop, Ian Cormack and Michael constructive challenge that they each demonstrate in Board Deakin joining Tom Cross Brown and Keith Nicholson.
and Committee discussions: Role of the Committee recommending to the Board that each of the Directors be The role of the Nomination Committee is to keep under review proposed for election by shareholders at the Annual General the leadership needs of the Company, and regularly review the Meeting on 18 May 2017.
The Committee made this size and composition of the Board, where appropriate making recommendation having considered the balance of abilities recommendations for the orderly succession of Executive and and experience required of both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Director appointments, and the progressive Non-Executive Directors, and on the basis that all Nonrefreshing of the Board and its Committees.
In assisting and Executive Directors, whether independent or not, continue advising the Board, the Committee seeks to maintain an to demonstrate the personal qualities necessary to contribute appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, independence, to the leadership of the Company: and experience and diversity on the Board, taking into account over the coming year, the Committee will continue to focus on the challenges and opportunities facing the Group.
Board succession planning and talent development.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee comprises of six Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are deemed independent during the period.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and the CEO and the Group Chief Operating Officer are normally invited to attend meetings.
The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Members biographies are set out on page 50 to 53.
Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman, Nomination Committee The Committees duties are explained in more detail in its terms of reference which are available on the Groups website at www.
