Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Governance Corporate Governance Report 2016 Group governance framework The following chart illustrates the governance structure established by the Group Board: JRP Group plc Board Risk and Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance Committee Committee Committee Committee GRCC Partnership Life Other Integration Just Retirement Limited Group Executive Assurance Company Subsidiary Boards Sub-Committee JRL O ce Committee Limited PLACL JRL & PLACL UK Business Executive Investment Committee Committee Management Sub-Committees The Allotment Committee has responsibility for overseeing the allotment and listing of new ordinary shares in the Company in accordance with the Companys executive incentive plans and employee share plans.
Its members comprise any two Directors, one of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Every Board Committee has written terms of reference setting out its duties, reporting responsibilities and authorities which are reviewed annually.
Committee terms of reference are subject to periodic updating to reflect any changes in legislation, regulation or best practice.
Further details on Committees are set out on pages 60 to 65.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Group Risk and Compliance, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on the Groups website at www.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 56 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The five main Board Committees are comprised of Non-Executive Directors of the Company who were appointed by the Board following review and recommendation by the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman of each Committee reports on the proceedings of the previous Committee meeting at the next scheduled Group Board meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is the Secretary of every Committee.
The following table shows the members and invited attendees of the Board Committees: Investment JRL Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk and Compliance and PLACL Chris Gibson-Smith By invitation Member Chairman Member By invitation Tom Cross Brown Member Member Member Rodney Cook By invitation By invitation By invitation David Richardson By invitation By invitation By invitation Simon Thomas By invitation By invitation By invitation Paul Bishop Chairman Member By invitation Member Peter Catterall Ian Cormack By invitation Chairman Member Member Michael Deakin By invitation Member Member By invitation Chairman James Fraser Steve Melcher Member Member Member By invitation Keith Nicholson Member Member Chairman By invitation Clare Spottiswoode Member Member Audit Committee Nomination Committee The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board with the The Nomination Committee assists the Board in determining discharge of its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, the composition and make-up of the Board.
It is also internal and external audits, including reviewing the Groups responsible for periodically reviewing the Boards structure and annual financial statements, reviewing and monitoring the identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, scope of the annual audit and the extent of the non-audit work as the need may arise.
The Committee also determines undertaken by external auditors, advising on the appointment succession plans for the Chairman and the CEO.
It will normally of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the meet not less than twice a year and is chaired by Chris Gibsoninternal audit activities, internal controls and risk management Smith.
Its other members are Tom Cross Brown, Paul Bishop, systems in place within the Group.
The Audit Committee will Ian Cormack, Michael Deakin and Keith Nicholson.
normally meet not less than four times a year and is chaired by Paul Bishop.
Its other members are Steve Melcher, Keith Risk and Compliance Committee Nicholson and Clare Spottiswoode.
The Risk and Compliance Committee is principally responsible for assisting the Board and other members of the Group in the Remuneration Committee discharge of their risk and regulatory oversight responsibilities.
The Remuneration Committee recommends what policy the The Committee reviews and challenges the overall effectiveness Group should adopt on executive remuneration and, within the of the Groups regulatory systems and controls, risk terms of the Directors Remuneration Policy approved by the management and future developments.
It also provides advice shareholders at the AGM in November 2014, determines the on regulatory and risk strategies including oversight of current remuneration benefits, pension rights and compensation risk exposures.
The Committee will normally meet not less than payments for all Solvency II staff, the Chairman, the Executive four times a year and is chaired by Keith Nicholson.
Its other Directors of the Company, the Chief Actuary, the Company members are Chris Gibson-Smith, Tom Cross Brown, Ian Secretary, the members of the Executive Committee and any Cormack, Steve Melcher and Clare Spottiswoode.
other employees of the Group for when the Committee determines it will have oversight as agreed by the Board from Investment Committee time to time.
The Remuneration Committee will also generate The Investment Committee of the Board of Just Retirement an annual remuneration report to be approved by the members Limited JRL and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited of the Group at the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee will PLACL assist the Boards in achieving their investment normally meet not less than twice a year and is chaired by Ian objectives.
The Investment Committee is responsible for Cormack.
Its other members are Chris Gibson-Smith, Michael reviewing and overseeing the implementation of JRL and PLACLs Deakin, and Steve Melcher.
investment policy, including the performance of the investment portfolio, recommending the appointment and assessing the performance of the external investment managers, and the effectiveness of reporting procedures.
The Investment Committee will normally meet not less than four times a year and is chaired by Michael Deakin.
Its other members are Tom Cross Brown and Paul Bishop.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 The Group Board is responsible for the proper management of The CEO is responsible for leadership of the Groups business JRPs Group strategy and direction, including its risk appetite.
It and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
also oversees the activities and direction of JRL and PLACL and His key responsibilities include: the Groups other operating subsidiaries.
There are 13 Board members: the Chairman independent on appointment, three Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and significant Executive and nine Non-Executive Directors seven of whom are commercial initiatives: considered independent.
Keith Nicholson is the Senior leading the executive team in the day-to-day running of Independent Non-Executive Director.
theGroup: ensuring the Groups operations are in accordance with the The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors Paul business plan approved by the Board, including the Boards Bishop, Tom Cross Brown, Ian Cormack, Michael Deakin, Steve overall risk appetite, the policies established by the Board, Melcher, Keith Nicholson and Clare Spottiswoode are each and applicable laws and regulations: independent of management in character, judgement and representation of the Groups interests in the UK and abroad: opinion.
The Board acknowledges that Peter Catterall and James Fraser, as the nominated principal shareholder Directors Maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on important in the Companys relationship agreement with Avallux S.. r. l business and strategy issues: and Cinven Limited the Groups principal shareholders, must recommending budgets and forecasts for Board approval: therefore be considered non-independent within the meaning of providing recommendations to the Remuneration Committee the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board benefits from the on remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other wide range of sector experience of its NonExecutive Directors.
senior management: and Biographical details of all Directors are given on pages 50 to 53. leading the communication programme with shareholders The Board believes that documented roles and responsibilities and ensuring the appropriate and timely disclosure of for Directors, with a clear division of key responsibilities information to the stock market.
between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer, are essential elements in the Groups governance framework In addition to their roles as Non-Executive Directors to and facilitate the effective operation of the Board.
constructively challenge and help to develop the Groups strategy, Paul Bishop, Ian Cormack, and Keith Nicholson The Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership and respectively chair the Boards Audit, Remuneration, and Risk governance of the Board but takes no part in the day-to-day and Compliance Committees, while Michael Deakin chairs the running of the business.
His key responsibilities include: Investment Committee of JRL and PLACL.
As the Senior Independent Director, Keith Nicholson provides a sounding Leading the Board effectively to ensure it is primarily focused board for the Chairman, and serves as an intermediary for on strategy, performance, value creation and accountability: the other Directors when necessary.
ensuring the Board determines the significant risks the Group Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the Executive is willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy: Directors under documented policies and procedures.
In leading the succession planning process and chairing the advance of scheduled Board meetings, each Director receives Nomination Committee: documentation providing updates on the Groups strategy, encouraging all Directors to contribute fully to Board finances, operations and development, and which have discussions and ensuring that sufficient challenge applies to reference to a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board major proposals: approval, which includes: fostering relationships within the Board and providing a sounding board for the CEO on important business issues: The Groups business strategy and risk appetite: identifying development needs for the Board and Directors: business strategy plans and objectives, budgets and forecasts: leading the process for evaluating the performance of the extension of the Groups activities into new business or Board, its Committees and individual Directors: and geographic areas: ensuring effective communication with major shareholders.
changes in capital structure and any form of fundraising: major changes to the Groups corporate structure, including reorganisations, acquisitions, disposals and major capital projects: the Groups systems of internal control and risk management: changes to the membership of the Board: interim and annual financial statements: and dividend policy.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 58 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The schedule of matters reserved for Board approval is reviewed annually.
The Board held 14 meetings during the pre-merger period from 1 July 2015 to 3 April 2016.
The table below shows Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings pre-merger: Risk and Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance Tom Cross Brown 13 14 3 3 3 3 3 3 Rodney Cook 12 14 Simon Thomas 12 14 Shayne Deighton2 11 13 James Fraser 14 14 Keith Nicholson 14 14 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 Kate Avery2 12 13 4 4 3 3 3 3 Michael Deakin 14 14 4 4 3 3 3 3 Steve Melcher 14 14 4 4 2 3 3 3 The Board held seven meetings during the post-merger period from 4 April 2016 to 31 December 2016.
The table below shows, Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings post-merger1 2 Risk and Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance Chris Gibson-Smith 7 7 2 2 1 1 4 4 Tom Cross Brown 7 7 1 1 3 4 Rodney Cook 7 7 Paul Bishop 7 7 5 5 1 1 Peter Catterall 4 7 Ian Cormack 5 7 2 2 1 1 2 4 Michael Deakin 7 7 2 2 1 1 James Fraser 7 7 Steve Melcher 7 7 5 5 2 2 3 4 Keith Nicholson 6 7 4 5 1 1 4 4 David Richardson 7 7 Clare Spottiswoode 7 7 5 5 4 4 Simon Thomas 7 7 1 This does not include additional ad hoc meetings held to approve discrete items of business or to support the work of the Committees between 4 April and 31 December 2016.
2 Shayne Deighton and Kate Avery retired from the Board upon completion of the merger on 4 April 2016.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, It is the view of the Board that the Groups internal controls are experience, independence and knowledge of the Company appropriate to the Groups needs at this time.
Internal controls provided by the Directors, with the aim of ensuring the Board are kept under review by the Board and its Committees and has the capabilities necessary to deliver its responsibilities for the Board is committed to maintaining standards of internal business strategy and governance.
The Board supports the controls that are in line with industry practice, the Groups principle of improving gender balance in the boardroom.
Further needs and regulatory regimes, in particular the requirements information about the Boards policy on diversity is given of the PRA and FCA.
The annual performance evaluation of the Board, its Non-Executive Directors appointments are subject to review Committees and of individual Directors was conducted after every three years.
Their letters of appointment set out the the year end and in keeping with the Code, for the period from expected time commitment, recognising the need for 4 April to 31 December 2016 via an external third party.
This availability in exceptional circumstances, and request that was followed by meetings of individual Directors with the the Board is informed of any subsequent changes in their Chairman.
The questionnaire responses were collated and other significant commitments.
None of the Executive Directors analysed by the external facilitator and the Group Company hold a Non-Executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
The results were reviewed by the Chairman and All Directors appointments are subject to annual re-election communicated by him and the third party facilitator to the by shareholders.
Board in a short workshop where the Board also directed its ambitions in terms of development and performance.
Led by A Group policy and process is in place to address possible the Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors conflicts of interest of Directors.
Any relevant conflicts and excluding the Chairman met to evaluate the performance potential conflicts with the interests of the Company that arise of the Chairman taking into account the views of Executive must be disclosed at the next Board meeting for consideration Directors : the results of that process were communicated and, if appropriate, authorisation by relevant Board members to the Board by the Senior Independent Director.
in accordance with the Companys Articles.
No conflicts were disclosed in the period.
All new Directors receive formal induction on joining the Board and a tailored training plan.
Their induction includes The Board has established a broad risk governance and discussions with the Chairman and Executive Directors as management framework, which is designed to provide well as one-to-one briefings and presentations from senior control and oversight over the management of all financial management on matters relating to the Groups business, and non-financial risks.
The Group operates a Three Lines of its procedures and regulatory developments.
As part of the Defence model.
The first line of defence is line management annual Board effectiveness review, the Chairman discusses with who devise and operate the controls over the business.
The each of the Directors their training and development needs.
second line functions are Risk Management and Compliance, which oversee the first line, ensure that the system of controls Directors may seek independent professional advice at the are sufficient and are operated appropriately, and also Companys expense where they consider it appropriate in measure and report on risk to the Group Risk and Compliance relation to their duties.
All Directors have access to the advice Committee.
The third line is Internal Audit who provide and services of the Group Company Secretary.
independent assurance to the Board and its Committees that the first and second lines are operating appropriately.
The Company maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major institutional shareholders through a scheduled programme The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness and of meetings which are generally undertaken by the CEO and monitoring of the Groups systems of internal control, covering Group Chief Financial Officer.
An Investor Relations function all material financial, operational and compliance controls, and provides the Board with regular analysis of investor activity for undertaking an annual review of the control systems in and share price performance.
Analysts and brokers reports place, while the implementation of internal control systems is are made available to all Directors and they also receive the responsibility of management.
The Groups systems of feedback from investor meetings.
The Senior Independent internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Director is available for consultation by shareholders if the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide they have concerns which are inappropriate to raise with only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material the Chairman, CEO or other Executive Directors.
The Groups internal control systems information for shareholders is included on page 168. comprise the following key features: Establishment of clear and detailed terms of reference for the Board and each of its Committees: a clear organisational structure, with documented delegation Chris Gibson-Smith of authority from the Board to senior management: Chairman a Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and control standards for the Groups operations: and defined procedures for the approval of major transactions and capital allocation.
