Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Governance Audit Committee Report Role and responsibilities The Committees key role is to provide effective governance and assurance over the Groups financial reporting, the performance of the internal audit function, the external auditor, and the management of the Groups systems of internal financial controls and related compliance activities.
The Audit Committee is focussed on the integrity of the Groups financial reports.
The Audit Committee liaises closely with the Risk and Compliance Committee through some cross membership and close cooperation of the Chairmen, which ensures that audit work is focussed on higher risk areas and that the results of internal and external audit work, can be used to inform the work of the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Statement from the Audit Committee composition The Committee members have been selected with the aim of CommitteeChairman providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties and include As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to report on appropriate life insurance accounting expertise.
The Board the activities discharged by the Committee during this reporting considers that the Committee Chairman has recent and relevant period.
I was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee financial experience as required by the UK Corporate taking over from Keith Nicholson on 4 April 2016 and Governance Code the Code.
throughout the period our activities continued to focus on the integrity of the financial reporting of the new Group and the The membership of the Committee changed at the date of the appropriateness of the internal controls in the context of the acquisition of Partnership, with Kate Avery and Michael Deakin significant integration activities which followed the merger.
leaving the Committee and Paul Bishop and Clare Spottiswoode joining.
The Committee was chaired by Keith Nicholson up to In particular the Committee oversaw the alignment of actuarial the date of the Partnership acquisition, with Paul Bishop taking and accounting bases of the new Group following the on the role of Chairman on 4 April 2016. acquisition of Partnership and the acquisition balance sheet and the pro forma and IFRS results.
Having conducted a thorough Summary of meetings during the year review of the significant financial judgements and financial The 18 month accounting period included the production of statement assumptions made in preparation of the Annual Report two sets of interim reports, as well as the Annual Report for the and Accounts, the Committee is satisfied that the 2016 Annual period ended 31 December 2016.
The Committee held seven Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
formal meetings during the period, plus one additional ad hoc meeting, and one Working Group.
The matters covered relating The Committee also conducted a review of the current external to the Groups financial reporting, external audit and internal audit arrangements and agreed with the approach and with the audit are as follows: recommendations made by the management team led by the Group Chief Financial Officer to appoint a single firm of external Financial reporting auditors for the year end 2016.
This resulted in a tender process, The Groups Annual Report and Interim Reports.
the execution of which was delegated to a sub-committee and which concluded with the recommendation to the Board of the The actuarial assumptions used by the Group which have appointment of KPMG LLP KPMG as the preferred audit firm the most material impact on the Groups results.
I recused myself from this process given my The alignment of actuarial and accounting bases across the previous association with KPMG.
enlarged Group following the acquisition of Partnership and the acquisition balance sheet.
The Committee invited to its meetings members of the The main accounting assumptions and any key judgements Executive team and other senior managers to present reports including the going concern basis, longer term viability on their areas of responsibility and provided effective challenge assessment and the accounting for goodwill and intangibles.
The external auditors were also invited to the meetings to report on their work and had direct access to External audit myself and the Committee to raise any concerns.
As Chairman Regular reports from the external auditor including meetings I also held regular one-to-one meetings with the Group Chief with the audit engagement partner without the presence Financial Officer, the Director of Group Finance, the Group Chief of management.
Actuary and the Group Regulatory and Audit Director to ensure that all significant areas of internal controls, including financial The 2016 period end audit work plan including the scope of reporting controls, were given appropriate consideration.
the audit and the materiality levels adopted by the auditor.
The independence of the external auditor including approval for the use of non-audit services provided by them.
The effectiveness of the audit process.
The reappointment, remuneration and engagement letter of the external auditor.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 62 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Internal audit Assumptions on Retirement income policyholder and equity The annual plan from the Group Regulatory and Audit release longevity Director, regular updates on internal audit work carried out The length of time the Groups Retirement Income customers and his end of year report.
and equity release mortgage holders will live and therefore the projected cash flows for Retirement Income and mortgage assets are key assumptions when setting the Groups insurance 2016 financial reporting liabilities.
Longevity experience is a key area of focus for the The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial Board, and the Committee, through the Board, receives regular reporting is to review with both management and the external reports on the actual against expected number of deaths and auditor the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial the likely causes, by condition, of any positive or negative statements concentrating on, amongst other matters: divergence.
Following the acquisition of Partnership, the Company is undertaking a comprehensive review of Retirement The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and Income customer longevity which is not yet completed.
practices: the appropriateness and clarity of the disclosures and The property assumptions used to value the Groups equity compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant release assets financial and governance reporting requirements: The value of the Groups equity release assets, which are largely material areas in which significant judgements have been in the form of roll-up mortgages, are reliant on a range of applied or there has been discussion with the external assumptions as to future house-price growth and the volatility auditor: and of house prices which determine the cost of the No negative equity guarantee which is given to all mortgagees.
whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the The Committee addresses both the methodology underpinning information necessary for shareholders to assess the these valuations and their calibration by reviewing and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
challenging the detailed analysis and recommendations put forward by the Deputy Chief Executive Officer in the period end To aid our review, the Committee considers reports from the and interim basis papers, which are also reviewed by KPMG as Group Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Actuary, and it also part of their audit.
Where appropriate, the Committee will also reviews reports from the external auditor on the outcomes seek views of external experts and advisers.
of their half-year review and 18 month period audit.
As a Committee we support KPMG in displaying the necessary External audit professional scepticism its role requires.
The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee audit cycle.
We receive a detailed audit plan from KPMG, in relation to the 2016 accounts, and how these were identifying its assessment of these key risks.
For the 2016 addressed, were: reporting period the primary risks identified were in relation to the valuation of insurance liabilities, acquisition accounting, The acquisition balance sheet of Partnership and alignment equity release asset valuation, reinsurance assets and liabilities, of accounting and actuarial bases investments and fraud risks including revenue recognition and Management engaged an external firm to assist with the management override of controls.
We challenged the work preparation of the acquisition balance sheet, in particular to done by the auditors to test managements assumptions and assist with identification and valuation of intangible assets.
We assess the effectiveness The accounting policies and actuarial methodologies and bases of the audit process in addressing these matters through the used to produce the acquisition balance sheet and subsequent reporting we receive from KPMG at the interim and period end.
reporting were reviewed by management and proposals to align In addition we also seek feedback from management on the the previous Just Retirement and Partnership approaches were effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee reviewed the reports of management period, management were satisfied that there had been and of the external firm and challenged the assumptions appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit underpinning the production of the balance sheet.
risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
The Audit Committee concurred with the view of management.
The valuation interest rate used to calculate the Groups insurance liabilities, reinsurance assets and deposits from Auditor independence reinsurers The Committee believes that the independence of the external The return on bond assets is adjusted for valuation purposes auditor is one of the primary safeguards for shareholders.
The for insurance liabilities, reinsurance assets and deposits from Committee reviewed audit independence and the scope of reinsurers to allow for credit risk for each bond by considering non-audit services and independence safeguards with KPMG.
the spread the difference between the gross redemption As part of this review, the Committee has received and reviewed yield and the yield on an equivalent duration risk-free written confirmation that, in KPMGs professional judgement, reference instrument.
The Group sets the credit risk as a fixed KPMG is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory minimum component plus a percentage of the spread, and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit calibrated significantly in excess of historic default rates, engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
which are provided by the leading rating agencies.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 An analysis of auditor remuneration is shown in note 5 to the The current audit partner will have served five years on the consolidated financial statements.
The Committee was satisfied engagement and is due to rotate off the audit after the 2016 throughout the period that the objectivity and independence period end.
of KPMG was not in any way impaired by the nature of the non-audit services undertaken during the period, the level of The Committee has approved KPMGs remuneration and terms non-audit fees charged or any other facts or circumstances.
of engagement and is fully satisfied with the performance, The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor objectivity, quality of challenge and independence of the of audit and non-audit services, and during 2016, KPMG was external auditor.
The majority of these services 2.425m related to the acquisition of Partnership.
The Committee will review the tenure of the auditor in 2017, and These services included support for the preparation of the will continue to comply with the Code and extant regulations on shareholders circular and court scheme documents, as well audit tendering.
as assistance with managements due diligence reviews.
The remainder of the non-audit services is largely in respect of The Committee believes that, when a tender takes place, taxation advice which was completed prior to the period end.
those asked to tender should have an equal chance of being These services were, in the opinion of the Committee, more appointed auditor.
The Company therefore intends, where efficiently provided by KPMG than other comparable firms due appropriate, to use audit firms other than KPMG for non-audit to it having obtained recent expertise during the Just services so that relationships are enhanced with those firms Retirement IPO.
capable of performing the role of external auditor.
The Committee will seek, with management, to ensure that there Audit tender are no contractual obligations which restrict the Committees There were two drivers for carrying out an audit tender process choice of auditor.
during the current financial year.
Risk management and internal control Firstly, in its 30 June 2015 Report & Accounts Just Retirement The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and Group plc JRG noted that the Groups external auditors, maintaining the Groups systems of internal financial control.
KPMG, had been in office since 2006.
In light of European The Audit Committee keeps under review the adequacy and regulations, the JRG Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and the appointment of external auditors and concluded that it would project planning for significant changes in financial systems be appropriate to put the external audit out to tender in the controls.
Non-financial controls are considered by the Group first half of 2016, with the successful firm being appointed for Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Secondly, the acquisition by JRG of Partnership Assurance Group internal financial control systems based on reports from the plc PAG in April 2016 to create JRP Group plc JRP meant Head of Internal Audit and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
that the audit of JRP and its subsidiaries was now carried out by two separate firms: KPMG who were auditors of JRP and the JRG Internal audit legacy subsidiary companies, and Deloitte LLP Deloitte who Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness were the auditors of PAG and its subsidiaries.
of the activity of the Group Internal Audit department is an agenda item at each Committee meeting.
The Committee These two factors gave rise to a clear need to move to a considers and approves the internal audit plan annually and single external audit provider as quickly as possible so as to looks to ensure its alignment with the external audit and the have a single auditor in place for JRPs Annual Report as at Groups risk management approach.
Reports from the Head of 31 December 2016.
Internal Audit include updates on audit activities, progress of the internal audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits It was noted that Paul Bishop, Audit Committee Chairman, and the action plans to address these areas.
The Committee had retired as partner at KPMG in January 2014.
Therefore, reviews the resource requirements of the Internal Audit he recused himself from the tender process and the decision department and is satisfied that it has the appropriate on selection of auditor and the Committee appointed Clare resources.
We hold private discussions with the Head of Internal Spottiswoode to chair the sub-committee that oversaw the Audit as necessary during the year and the Committee tender process.
Chairman also meets with him regularly outside the formal committee process and is responsible for his performance The Audit Committee sub-committee oversaw and agreed the appraisal and setting his annual objectives.
approach to the tender to be taken by management with the appointment of an operational decision making team overseen by Clare Spottiswoode.
This team was responsible for managing the tender process and making recommendations to the Audit Committee.
Paul Bishop Eight firms were invited to tender.
Following a robust review Chairman, Audit Committee process and consultation with major institutional shareholders, the Audit Committee made the recommendation to the Board and KPMG was selected as Group auditor.
Tenure of external auditor The appointment of KPMG as the Groups external auditor is kept under review.
KPMG has audited the Group since the 2006 year end.
