JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 64 Governance Risk and Compliance Committee Report Committee composition The membership of the Committee changed immediately upon completion of the merger, with Chris Gibson-Smith, Ian Cormack and Clare Spottiswoode joining Keith Nicholson, Tom Cross Brown and Steve Melcher.
Keith Nicholson also accepted the role of Chairman on 4 April 2016, succeeding Steve Melcher.
All the six members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
Regular attendees include both Executive and other NonExecutives Directors including the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Investment Committee of the Life Companies of the Group, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Chief Actuary and the Group Regulatory and Audit Director.
Senior managers are also invited to attend the meetings to report as appropriate on their areas of responsibility.
Statement from the Risk and Compliance The Committee has a standing agenda based on the annual Committee Chairman cycle of business covering all areas of its responsibility.
Regular discussions are also held independently by the Chairman with As Chairman of the Committee I am pleased to report on the the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group Regulatory and Audit Risk and Compliance Committees activities for the period under Director to ensure that all significant areas of risk are considered.
The Committee oversees all aspects of risk management and financial services regulation for the Group.
Summary of meetings during the period The Committee met formally on four occasions during the The Committee has experienced an intense period of activity period since the merger, with an additional two meetings held during the period having considered not only the risks on an ad hoc basis to brief Directors on the internal model.
associated with the merger and the integration of the two The main areas considered and activities undertaken by the legacy companies but also including those risks associated Committee related in particular to: with the significant work undertaken in the prudential sphere in preparing for, implementing, and embedding the new Solvency II Solvency II regime.
This latter activity included reviewing the The Committee considered the Groups Internal Model methodology and calibration of the internal model, receiving application and reviewed two new risk calibrations to extend reports on the independent validation of the model, monitoring the already approved Internal Model of the acquirer Group to progress towards the Prudential Regulation Authoritys approval the acquiree Group companies.
For this reason the Committee of the model and reviewing the Groups Own Risk and discussed and reviewed the matching adjustment application Solvency Assessment.
for the life company of the acquired Partnership Group Company and made recommendations to the Board in respect of its The Committee has supported the Board by providing submission to the PRA.
leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups overall risk appetite, risk tolerance and risk management framework.
The Committee also considered the first Own Risk and Solvency In doing so, the Committee has played a key role in delivering Assessment report for the new combined Group which provided effective oversight of the risks inherent in the business.
In a forward-looking assessment of the risk and capital position of addition the Committee has been responsible for reviewing the new Group.
In addition to the challenges of the merger and and recommending to the Board the Groups regulatory and subsequent work to integrate the businesses, the Committee internal control policies and procedures and the compliance discussed the Groups regulatory capital position in a Solvency monitoring plan.
Potential implications of Brexit for the UK life insurance industry in general and the Group in particular were assessed.
The report that follows gives a high level overview of the Discussions took place on the outlook of the risks emerging principal matters covered during the reporting period.
post-referendum to identify any additional monitoring or actions required but not yet established by the Group, including Roles and responsibilities considering the request of special reports from external sources The Committees key roles and responsibilities include the to supplement the information gathered by management.
review and recommendation to the Board of the Groups overall risk appetite, strategy and monitoring the overall effectiveness of the risk management framework, governance and compliance activity within the Group.
In reviewing the Groups risk exposures, it ensures that these are adequately mitigated by the risk methodologies and managements actions.
The Committee is also responsible for the effectiveness of the Internal Model related to the implementation of the Solvency II regime requirements and for recommending any changes to the Model to the Board.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Risk appetite The Committee reviewed the Groups risk appetite for each of the core risks used to meet the Groups strategic objectives and business plan and discussed the risk appetite expressions.
A new proposal for the risk appetite was presented by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
This took into account the expectations of the Board given the Group is a growing franchise.
The Committee concluded following its discussion and final review that the risk statements and the measures adopted were appropriate and recommended their approval to the Board.
The Committee also monitored the delivery of the Groups business plan against the agreed appetite for each core risk.
Risk management The Committee reviewed the new Risk Management Framework which was based on the established risk frameworks of the two merged Groups.
The Committee also reviewed the risk management and compliance policies and approved changes where appropriate for recommendation to the Board.
The whistleblowing policy and procedures were also reviewed to ensure that arrangements were in place for a proportionate and independent investigation of possible improper financial conduct.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee was identified as the Whistleblowers Champion.
The Committee considered the report presented by the Group Chief Digital Information Officer on the review of the current business practices in respect of IT, operations and cyber issues.
It also received updates on the restructuring of the IT division.
In particular the Committee assessed the progress made on ensuring that appropriate steps were in place to ensure the whole business was aware of the role in preventing cybercrime and that controls to identify and prevent breaches of cyber security were in place.
Financial Services regulation The Committee reviewed regular reports on conduct and compliance and reports on managements dialogues with the PRA and FCA aimed at better understanding the areas of focus for the regulators and how these might influence the oversight role of the Committee.
Updates were also provided on the outcome of the regular and specific meetings of the Chairman with the PRA to develop a good working relationship with the regulator.
The Committee also received updates on the regulatory outlook and key developments affecting the business.
Keith Nicholson Chairman, Group Risk and Compliance Committee
