STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 57 LEADERSHIP THE ROLE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES BOARD Board Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
With due regard to theviews of shareholders and other stakeholders, it sets strategy and oversees its implementation ensuring only acceptable risks are taken.
It provides leadership and direction to the business as a whole, including establishing the culture, values and ethics of the organisation.
It is also responsible for corporate governance and the overall financial performance of the Group.
BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Reviews and is responsible for Reviews and recommends to the Reviews the structure, size and oversight of the Groups financial Board the executive remuneration composition of the Board and its and narrative reporting processes policy and determines the Committees and makes and the integrity of the financial remuneration packages of the recommendations to the Board statements.
It scrutinises the work of Executive Directors and other accordingly.
It has oversight the external auditor and valuers and members of the Executive Committee.
responsibility for succession planning any significant judgements made by It also has oversight of the Groups of the Board and senior management management.
It regularly reviews remuneration policy for all employees.
and leads the process for new Board the risk management framework, appointments.
More details on pages 7283. including the systems of risk More details on pages 6062. management and internal control, and the work of internal audit.
Executive Committee An advisory committee that operates under the direction and authority of the Chief Executive and which comprises senior management from across the business see page Chief Executive opposite.
It assists the Chief Executive, and the Chief Responsible for developing and Financial Officer, in implementing strategy, operating plans, implementing strategy, managing the budgets, policies and procedures, and managing the overall performance of the business and operational and financial performance of the Group.
It also ensuring an effective and motivated addresses other key business and corporate related matters, leadership team is in place.
including competitive forces, risk and reputation More details below.
management, resource allocation, succession planning, organisational development and employee remuneration.
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Asset and Liability Committee Investment Committee London and Retail Sustainability Committee Health, Safety and Security Executive Committees Committee Responsible for considering the Responsible for considering and Responsible for developing impact of proposed sales, approving significant investment Responsible for the financial, and implementing the Groups Responsible for overseeing purchases, developments and transactions, including the operational and governance sustainability strategy, linked to the Groups health and safety debt funding arrangements on acquisition, disposal and and integrated with the Groups performance of the London and policy, operations, performance the Groups balance sheet and development of assets with a Retail business portfolios.
In against targets and progress internal control metrics over the value of between 20m and Committee can also approve doing so, it also considers towards goals.
The remit of this short and medium-term.
It also reviews and transactions up to a value of 10m.
environmental, social, economic Committee was extended from considers the likely impact of recommends higher value and energy issues affecting the 1 April 2016 to include security macro-economic developments transactions to the Board.
governance, policy and on the business.
responsible for implementing procedures at all Group the annual funding strategy properties.
MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD AND DELEGATED AUTHORITIES In order to retain control of key decisions and ensure there is a The matters reserved to the Board and the terms of TheBoard and each Committee receivesufficient, reliable clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company reference for each of its Committees, which are reviewed on an and timely information in advance ofmeetings and are between the running of the Board and the running of the annual basis, can be found on the Companys website at www.
provided with or given access to all necessary resources and Companys business, the Board has identified certain landsecurities.
Anymatters outside of these fall within the expertise to enable them to fulfiltheir responsibilities and reserved matters that only it can approve.
Other matters, Chief Executives responsibility and authority.
Hereports on undertake their duties in aneffectivemanner.
responsibilities and authorities have been delegated to its the activities of all Management Committees through his Committees and certain Management Committees, as above.
andthe Chief Financial Officers regular reportsto the Board.
58 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 BOARD COMPOSITION AND ROLES Table18 The Board currently comprises a Non-executive Chairman who was independent on appointment, two Executive Directors and six Independent Non-executive Directors.
They are advised and supported by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Their key responsibilities are as set out in the table below: Chairman Dame Alison Carnwath Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance and for monitoring and measuring progress against strategy and the performance of the Chief Executive.
Ensures Board members are aware of and understand the views and objectives of major shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Maintains a culture of openness and debate and helps set the tone from the top in terms of the purpose, vision and values for the whole organisation.
Chief Executive Robert Noel Responsible for developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board, implementing the agreed strategy, running the business day-to-day and leading the executive team.
Maintains a close working relationship with the Chairman.
Chief Financial Officer Martin Greenslade Supports the Chief Executive in developing and implementing strategy, and in relation to the financial and operational performance of the Group.
Independent Kevin OByrne, Chris Bartram, Responsible for bringing an external perspective, sound judgement and objectivity to the Boards Non-executive Directors Simon Palley, Stacey Rauch, deliberations and decision-making.
Support and constructively challenge the Executive Directors Cressida Hogg CBE and Edward using their broad range of experience and expertise.
Monitor the delivery of the agreed strategy Bonham Carter within the risk management framework set by the Board.
Senior Independent Kevin OByrne Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted intermediary for other Directors.
Director Available to discuss with shareholders any concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Leads the other independent Non-executive Directors in the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Group General Counsel Tim Ashby Provides advice and assistance to the Board, the Chairman and other Directors, particularly in and Company Secretary relation to corporate governance practices, induction training and development.
Ensures that Board procedures are complied with, applicable rules are followed and good information flow exists to the Board and its Committees.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
BOARD MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE Table 19 AGM 1 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Sept 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 16 Feb 16 31 Mar 16 The number of Board and Committee meetings and their attendance by each Director during the year was as follows: Table 20 Audit Nomination Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee Dame Alison Carnwath 8 8 2 2 3 3 Robert Noel 8 8 Martin Greenslade 8 8 Kevin OByrne 8 8 5 5 2 2 Chris Bartram 8 8 2 2 2 2 1 1 Simon Palley 7 8 2 2 3 3 Stacey Rauch 8 8 5 5 Cressida Hogg CBE 8 8 3 3 2 2 Edward Bonham Carter 8 8 3 3 Chris Bartram stepped down from the Remuneration Committee and joined the Audit Committee on 23 July 2015, immediately post the AGM.
Cressida Hogg stepped down from the Audit Committee and joined the Remuneration Committee on 23 July 2015, immediately post the AGM.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 59 BOARD ACTIVITY Table 21 The diagram below shows the key areas of Board activity during the year.
Strategy, property and funding Governance, stakeholders Reviewed the Groups strategy, in particular and shareholders its retail park strategy, and business Discussed the outcome of the development programme in the light of externally facilitated Board future property demand expectations evaluation and effectiveness review, Debated the changing status of the property and agreed improvement cycle, including the Companys position, risk opportunities profile and preparations for any business Considered the Groups 2020 impact sustainability strategy, including Reviewed the Groups performance versus progress versus annual targets and budget and targets, external benchmarks improvements planned and by reference to its peers Reviewed regular health and safety Reviewed performance versus Board updates approval for key schemes and assets Reviewed developments in completed or developed corporate governance and received key legal and regulatory updates Considered portfolio liquidity analysis and development exposure Reviewed the investor relations Considered and approved disposals of strategy and regularly reviewed Strategy, Governance, properties with a value in excess feedback from institutional property and stakeholders and of 150m shareholders, roadshows and other funding shareholders engagement activities Reviewed and approved the conditions around the redevelopment of Buchanan Reviewed and approved the Groups Galleries, Glasgow new purpose, vision and values as part of setting culture and tone from Considered and approved the the top Groups Going Concern and Viability Statements, dividend Received regular meeting reports policy, debt funding arrangements, from the Chairman of the Audit, gearing levels and the early Remuneration and Nomination redemption of 400m of medium Committees THE BOARD term notes Reviewed and approved certain Internal control Approved the relocation of the annual fee increases for the and risk Companys head office to Non-executive Directors.
performance Leadership and people Internal control and risk management Financial performance Reviewed the Groups risk register and the Considered the financial effectiveness of the systems of internal performance of the business control and risk management and approved the annual budget, key performance targets and five Undertook externally facilitated catastrophic Leadership and people year plan risk and reputational risk management Discussed the composition of the reviews Reviewed the half year and annual Board and its Committees, including results and presentations to Debated significant and emerging risks, succession planning analysts and approved the Annual including cyber-security, terrorism, the loss of Report Appointed a new Group General key people and the uncertainty arising from Counsel and Company Secretary the imminent EU referendum.
Considered the half year and full year valuation of the Groups Reviewed the development of people portfolio by the external valuer and potential talent in the Group, including succession planning for Reviewed the Groups tax structure Senior Leaders and insurance programme.
Discussed the results of the employee engagement survey Approved and adopted new employee share incentive plans.
