STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 65 Audit Committee activity quarterly reports on investigated internal The key areas of Committee activity during control issues significant to the Group ACCOUNTABILITY the year included the planning, monitoring, quarterly reports on the Groups risk reviewing and approving of the following: register, including significant and Structure and operations emerging risks Financial reporting The Audit Committees structure and compliance by management concerning the quality and appropriateness of the operations, including its delegated the operation of the business for which half-yearly and full year financial statements responsibilities and authority, are governed they are responsible by terms of reference which are reviewed the information, underlying assumptions the adequacy and effectiveness of the annually and approved by the Board.
and stress test analysis presented in Groups internal control and risk To maintain effective communication support of Going Concern and the management systems.
between all relevant parties, and in support of Viability Statement its activities, the Company Chairman, Chief the consistency and appropriateness of Internal audit Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Director of the financial control and reporting the scope of the internal audit plan Risk Management and Internal Audit, the environment the independence, appropriateness and partner and representatives of the Companys the dividend policy and the payment of effectiveness of internal audit.
external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, and dividends, with due regard to the other members of the senior finance team External property valuation Companys REIT status and the change in regularly attend Committee meetings.
the Governments income tax treatment the oversight of a competitive tender All Non-executive Directors are invited to of dividends process for the appointment of the attend meetings when the Groups external external valuer of the Groups property the fair, balanced and understandable valuer, CBRE, makes property valuation portfolio, and the selection and assessment of the Annual Report and presentations.
The Committee as a whole has appointment of CBRE, in place of the half-yearly statement.
private sessions with the internal and external previous incumbents audit teams.
In addition, the Committee External audit the quality and appropriateness of the Chairman has private and informal sessions the scope of the external audit plan half year and full year external valuation with them and the valuer to ensure open lines the independence and objectivity of EY of the Groups property portfolio of communication exist in case they wish to raise any concerns outside of formal meetings.
the quality and effectiveness of EYs the independence and effectiveness of Whilst the Committee members audit services the external valuer.
collectively have the financial, commercial and the level of fees paid to EY in accordance Other property expertise to provide oversight of both with the policy for the provision of the Committees terms of reference and financial and risk matters, and to advise the non-audit services its performance effectiveness Board accordingly, Kevin OByrne is the EYs reappointment to office as external member determined by the Board as having compliance with the Code and the auditor.
recent and relevant financial experience for Groups regulatory and legislative the purposes of satisfying the UK Corporate Risk management and internal control environment.
the scope of the internal control and risk Significant financial matters The Committee works to a structured management programme During the year, the Committee considered programme of activities and meetings to the results of internal audit reviews and the appropriateness of significant financial coincide with key events around the the progress made against agreed matters made in connection with the Companys financial calendar.
Following each management actions financial statements as set out on pages meeting, the Committee Chairman reports on 66 and 68. the main discussion points and findings to the Board.
External auditor Audit Quality Inspection Report on EY issued Audit plan EY, as the external auditor, is engaged to by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
This In respect of the audit for the financial year conduct a statutory audit and express an years review will be further extended to under review, EY presented their proposed opinion on the Companys and the Groups include an audit quality assessment based on audit plan prepared in consultation with senior financial statements.
Their audit includes a the new Practice Aid guidelines also issued by management and the Director of Risk review and test of the systems of internal the FRC.
The Committee Chairman meets Management and Internal Audit to the control and data contained in the financial privately with the audit engagement partner Committee for consideration and approval.
statements to the extent necessary to express before the Committee considers the results of The objective was to further build on EYs an audit opinion on them.
increased understanding of the business and EY successfully completed their audit for ensure it remained aligned to the Groups Effectiveness of the external audit the financial year.
The audit plan was again risk and Following the issue of the Companys Annual view is that in line with the conclusions from last materiality focused, challenge based and Report, the Director of Risk Management and years performance review, EY had again designed to provide valuable insights beyond Internal Audit conducts a performance performed their audit services effectively, the audit.
evaluation and effectiveness review of the efficiently and to a high quality.
This is conducted against for development will be shared with them for structured guidelines in consultation with the inclusion in their audit and service delivery Executive Directors and members of the senior plans going forward.
finance team and with due regard to the latest 66 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Objectivity and independence Committee approval is required for proposed Significant financial matters The Committee is responsible for monitoring non-audit services over 100,000.
The Committee reviewed two significant and reviewing the objectivity and Details of the 0.8m audit fees and financial matters in connection with the independence of the external auditor.
In 0.2m non-audit fees charged by EY during financial statements, namely the valuation of undertaking its annual assessment, the the year can be found in note 7 to the financial the Groups property portfolio and revenue Committee has reviewed: statements.
No non-audit fees were approved recognition.
Further details are set out in table or paid on a contingent basis.
23 on page 68. the confirmation from EY that they maintain These items were considered to be appropriate internal safeguards in line with External valuations and valuers significant taking into account the level of applicable professional standards The valuation of the Groups property portfolio, materiality and the degree of judgement the mitigation actions taken by the including properties held within the exercised by management and, in respect Company in seeking to safeguard EYs development programme and in joint ventures, of the valuation, the external valuer.
The independent status, including the operation is undertaken by independent external valuers.
Committee discussed these with both parties, of policies designed to regulate the amount In September 2015, following a competitive as well as EY.
In addition, the Committee of non-audit services provided by EY and tender process, CBRE was selected to value all considered, took action and made onward the employment of former EY employees of the Groups investment properties replacing recommendations to the Board, as appropriate, the tenure of the audit engagement partner Knight Frank as the principal valuer and Jones in respect of other key matters including the not being greater than five years Lang LaSalle who had valued our X-Leisure new Viability Statement, the Going Concern properties.
The valuation helps to determine a basis on which the financial statements are the internal performance and effectiveness significant part of the Groups net asset value, prepared, accounting for property acquisitions review of EY referred to above.
reported performance and senior management and disposals, maintenance of the Groups remuneration.
This is why the scrutiny of each REIT status and other specific areas of Taking the above review into account, the valuation, and the valuers independence, individual property and audit focus.
Committee concluded that EY remained objectivity and effectiveness, represents such The Committee was satisfied that all objective and independent in their role as an important part of the Committees work.
issues had been fully and adequately external auditor.
Valuations for the full and half year were addressed, that the judgements made were reviewed and challenged by management and reasonable and appropriate and had been Audit tendering the Committee, with reference to CBREs reviewed and debated with the external EY were first appointed to the office of auditor, approach, methodology, valuation basis and auditor who concurred with the approach following a competitive tender process, in underlying property and market assumptions.
respect of the 2013 14 financial year.
Having Other Non-executive Directors attended the undertaken such a process, the Company has final presentation.
The Committee Chairman Risk management framework complied with The Statutory Audit Services for also met separately with CBRE.
The Board is responsible for determining both Large Companies Market Investigation Additionally, CBRE met with EY and the nature and extent of the Groups risk Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and exchanged information independently of management framework and the risk appetite Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 management.
EY has experienced chartered that is acceptable in seeking to achieve its Article 7.1, published by the CMA on surveyors on its team who consider the strategic objectives.
The framework and the 26September 2014. valuers qualifications and assess and ongoing process in place for identifying, Under current regulations, the Company challenge the valuation approach, evaluating and managing the principal risks will be required to retender the audit by no later assumptions and judgements made by faced by the Group are described on pages than in respect of the 2023 24 financial year.
Their audit procedures are targeted 4649.
These are regularly reviewed by However, the Committee proposes to review ataddressing the risks in respect of the the Board.
the situation at the same time as the current valuations and the potential for any undue Primary responsibility for operation of audit engagement partner is due to rotate management influence in arriving at them.
theCompanys internal control and risk which is in respect of the 2018 19 financial year.
This year, 30 properties comprising 70% of management systems, which extend to include There are no contractual restrictions in relation the portfolio by valuation were chosen for financial, operational and compliance controls to the Companys choice of external auditor.
particular attention by EYs valuation experts and accord with the FRCs 2014 Guidance on On the recommendation of the Audit on the basis of their value, type and Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Committee, the Board is proposing a resolution geography.
EY also performed site visits for Financial and Business Reporting, has been at this years Annual General Meeting that EY a sample of assets including those under delegated to management.
These systems be reappointed to office for a further year.
development and completed analytical and have been designed to manage, rather than substantive reviews over the input data for eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Non-audit services the valuations, comparing this to market data.
Groups business goals and can provide only To help safeguard EYs objectivity and The Committee reviewed their findings.
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against independence, the Company operates a An internal evaluation of CBREs material misstatement or loss.
non-audit services policy which sets out the performance and effectiveness will be circumstances and financial limits within which conducted after the year end and annually they may be permitted to provide certain thereafter with the results reported on the non-audit services such as assurance work following year.
on which they will not be required to provide A fixed-fee arrangement is in place an audit opinion.
The Committee monitors with CBRE for the valuation of the Groups compliance with the policy and, while some properties and given the importance of their minor changes were made to it during the year work we have disclosed the fees paid to them for clarification purposes, the 25,000 in note 8 to the financial statements.
The total threshold limit above which any proposed valuation fees paid by the Company to CBRE non-audit services require prior approval from during the year represented less than 5% of the Committee Chairman remains unchanged.
their total fee income for the year.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 67 Internal control summary reports and progress against by the Company Secretary and escalated The key elements of the Groups internal agreed actions from internal audit on their to the Committee, as appropriate.
During control are as follows: review of the effectiveness of various the year, there were no whistleblowing elements of the internal control system incidents reported.
an established organisation structure with maintained by the Group.
The Company runs a whistleblowing clear lines of responsibility, approval levels awareness campaign every year and the and delegated authorities Effectiveness arrangements also form part of the induction a disciplined management and committee The Board has undertaken a robust assessment programme for new employees.
structure which facilitates regular of the principal risks faced by the Group, It is intended that the policy and facilities performance review and decision-making including those that could threaten the will be extended to cover key suppliers and the a comprehensive strategic review and business model, future performance, solvency requirements of the new legislation covering annual planning process or liquidity.
Assisted by the Committee, slavery and human trafficking reporting.
the Board also reviewed the effectiveness a robust budgeting, forecasting and of the systems of internal control and risk Bribery and corruption policy financial reporting process management in place throughout the year The Board has a zero tolerance policy for various policies, procedures and guidelines and up to the date of this report.
This took bribery and corruption of any sort.
The underpinning the development, asset into account the valuable assurance work Company, in operating the policy, gives regular management, financing and main undertaken by the risk management and training to staff on the procedures, highlighting operations of the business, together with internal audit function and the relevant areas of vulnerability.
New employees are professional services support including process, controls and testing work undertaken required to complete an online training module legal, human resources, information by EY as part of their half year review and full when they join.
Our principal suppliers are services, tax, company secretarial and year audit.
No weaknesses or control failures required to have similar policies and practices health, safety and security significant to the Group were identified.
in place within their own businesses.
a compliance certification process from Where areas for improvement were identified, management conducted in relation to the new procedures have been introduced to half-yearly and full year results, and strengthen the controls and will themselves be business activities generally subject to regular review as part of the ongoing a quarterly self-certification by management assurance process.
confirming that key internal controls within their area of responsibility have been Fair, balanced and understandable operating effectively The Committee applied this year the same due diligence approach adopted in previous years a risk management and internal audit in order to assess one of the key Code function whose work spans the whole Group requirements in respect of the Annual Report.
a focused post-acquisition review and This included the establishment of an editorial integration programme to ensure the team who were responsible for preparing, Groups governance, procedures, standards compiling and verifying the content and, and control environment are implemented through regular review meetings with the effectively and timely Executive Directors, ensuring that consistent a financial and property information reporting and appropriate links existed management system.
between key messages and sections of the Annual Report.
A specific paper was presented Risk management to the Committee and the Board to assist in its Under the overall supervision of the Committee, challenge and testing of a fair, balanced and there are several sub-committees and work understandable assessment.
groups that oversee and manage day-to-day Taking the above into account, together risk within the business.
The Group has a with the views expressed by EY, the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit Committee recommended, and in turn the with a direct reporting line to the Audit Board confirmed, that the 2016 Annual Report, Committee Chairman who provides regular taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and oversight of risk matters, evaluates emerging understandable and provides the necessary risks that may affect the business and monitors information for shareholders to assess the compliance to ensure that any mitigating actions Companys position, performance, business are properly managed and completed.
Committee, in consultation with management, agrees the annual work plan including any Whistleblowing policy assistance that may be required from external The Committee reviews the Groups specialists of the risk management and arrangements, incorporated within a specific internal audit function to ensure alignment with policy, which allow employees to report the needs of the business and compliance with concerns about suspected impropriety or its governance charter.
wrongdoing whether financial or otherwise Additionally, the Committee receives and within the Group on a confidential basis, and discusses on a quarterly basis: anonymously if preferred.
These include an the Groups risk register, including significant independent third-party reporting facility and emerging risks, and how exposures comprising a telephone hotline and an online have changed during the period process.
Any matters reported are investigated 68 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL MATTERS HOW THE COMMITTEE ADDRESSED Table 23 CONSIDERED THE MATTERS Valuation of the Groups property The Group uses CBRE, a leading firm in the UK property portfolio including properties held market, as its principal valuer.
They replaced Knight Frank and within the development programme Jones Lang LaSalle in 2015 following a competitive tender.
and in joint arrangements The Audit Committee adopts a formal approach by which the The valuation of the Groups property valuation process, methodology, assumptions and outcomes portfolio is a major determinant of the are reviewed and robustly challenged.
This includes separate Groups performance and drives an review and scrutiny by management, the Committee Chairman element of the variable remuneration and the Committee itself.
It also includes EY as the external for senior management.
Although the auditor who is assisted by its own specialist team of chartered portfolio valuation is conducted surveyors who are familiar with the valuation approach and the externally by an independent valuer, UK property market.
the nature of the valuation estimates is EY met with CBRE separately from management and their inherently subjective and requires the remit extends to investigating and confirming that no undue making of significant judgements and influence has been exerted by management in relation to the assumptions by management and the external valuer arriving at their valuations.
CBRE submits its valuation report to the Committee as part of Significant assumptions and the half year and full year results process.
They were asked to judgements made by the valuer in attend and present to the Board and to highlight any significant determining valuations may include the judgements made or disagreements which existed between appropriate yield based on recent themselves and management.
market evidence, changes to market The valuer proposed changes to the values of our properties rents ERVs, what will occur at the end and developments during the year, which were discussed by of each lease, the level of the Committee in detail and accepted.
non-recoverable costs and alternative Based on the degree of oversight and challenge applied to uses.
Development valuations also the valuation process, the Committee concluded that the include assumptions around costs to valuations had each been conducted appropriately, complete the development, the level of independently and in accordance with the valuers letting at completion, incentives, lease professional standards.
terms and the length of time space remains void.
Revenue recognition The Committee and EY considered the main areas of judgement exercised by management in accounting for Certain transactions require matters related to revenue recognition, including timing and management to make judgements as treatment of rents, incentives, surrender premia and other to whether and to what extent they property related revenue.
should be recognised as revenue in the year.
EY reviewed and tested individual transactions on a sample basis to ensure there was a contractual relationship and Revenue recognition is significant to consistency of accounting treatment between last year and the Group as there is a risk of this year.
overstatement or deferral of revenue and revenue profit to assist in meeting In its assessment, the Committee, in consultation with EY, current or future market expectations considered all relevant facts, challenged the recoverability and senior management performance ofoccupier incentives, the options that management had in incentive targets.
terms of accounting treatment and the appropriateness of thejudgements made by management.
These matters had themselves been the subject of prior discussion between EYand management.
The Committee, having consulted with EY, concurred with thejudgements made by management and were satisfied that the revenue reported for the year had been appropriately recognised.
The above description of the significant financial matters should be read in conjunction with the Independent Auditors Report on pages 9194 and the significant accounting policies disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements on page 99.
Further details on critical accounting judgements and key estimations of uncertainty can be found in note 2 to the financial statements onpage 100.
