STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 69 Creating jobs and opportunities Each of the Alliance partners has its own We are working with our customers, the control and governance structure for onward community and partners to ensure that local reporting and obtaining required authorities GOVERNANCE people have access to the opportunities and approvals see diagram below.
In addition to Recently, the Alliance acquired the IN ACTION construction jobs, Westgate Oxford will neighbouring Castle Quarter site which provide around 3,000 new retail and service complements the existing scheme and jobs when it opens.
Our Community further reinforces our commitment to the Employment Programme was agreed from City.
The governance structure, together the beginning with our contractors to ensure with the relationships established through delivery of training, apprenticeships and job the Westgate Oxford project, contributed to opportunities in Oxford to people from a smooth acquisition from initial prospect, disadvantaged backgrounds.
The programme through due diligence and negotiations, to has already proved a great success with the completed transaction.
22new jobs secured since it started in March2015.
Being part of local history Underneath the development were the WE HAVE FOUND remains of a medieval friary.
We have funded THROUGHOUT THE exploratory works with Oxford Archaeology PROJECT THAT THE LAND who have been on site since January 2015.
Ben Ford, Project Director for Oxford SECURITIES TEAM HAS Archaeology, commented that: These are BUILDING SUSTAINABLE ACTED IN AN OPEN AND some of the best preserved and most RELATIONSHIPS IN OUR extensive medieval remains I have seen in TRANSPARENT MANNER, Oxford.
During the past year we have COMMUNITIES: WORKING HARD TO welcomed more than 4,000 visitors to two WESTGATE OXFORD ENSURE THAT THE archaeology open days and a pop-up museum.
We intend to permanently celebrate INFORMATION WE HAVE The Westgate Oxford Alliance is a joint venture the sites archaeological significance in the between the Company and The Crown Estate.
AVAILABLE TO SUPPORT landscaping and public realm.
Working closely with Oxford City Council and DECISION-MAKING IS OF the Oxfordshire County Council, we are Structured governance THE HIGHEST QUALITY.
creating 804,500 sq ft of new retail, restaurant Given the scale, complexity and sensitivity and leisure space in the heart of Oxford.
Due to of the Westgate Oxford scheme, it is vital Hannah Milne, Director of Regional Portfolio, open in Autumn 2017, delivery of this 440m that our governance processes are both The Crown Estate scheme is managed by Land Securities who comprehensive and responsive.
The project provide development and project management team reports regularly to the management, leasing, marketing, finance and Westgate Executive Committee and the asset management services to the Alliance.
Alliance board meets quarterly to review Our vision for Westgate Oxford is to development and strategic progress.
create a premium retail and leisure experience in tune with modern Oxford.
From conception through construction and through to opening, our Westgate Oxford team is working to ensure GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE that a complex and high-profile development process is managed and governed to the high standards expected by the Board, with our strategic objectives addressed throughout.
Westgate Oxford Alliance Board Land Securities Land Securities and The Crown Estate Group PLC Board Working to improve sustainability performance Executive Committee We share with our partners an ambition to Westgate Executive Committee create the UKs most sustainable shopping Land Securities and The Crown Estate centre.
The sustainability vision for Westgate Retail Executive Oxford is to exceed local and national policy, Committee embrace new techniques and technologies Project Management Team Land Securities and enable a long-term sustainable retail heart for Oxford.
A 45 point implementation plan was created to guide the team, encompassing green building certification, socio-economic Development Project Marketing and Leasing and legal management management communications targets and innovative sustainable design solutions.
The implementation process is Engineering and Asset Community and unique, with external assurance provided by Operations Finance environmental management employment Oxford Brookes University who were engaged to ensure academic rigour in the design and procurement process.
70 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 in the UK, and it is estimated that in the same crime, cyber-crime and environmental period some 3,500 people who had worked issues.
We have put in place an appropriate in the UK construction industry died from governance structure to help us deal with GOVERNANCE occupational cancers.
Clive chairs the these important issues see diagram below.
industrys Construction Health Leadership IN ACTION Group and during the year it organised two Protection groundbreaking events.
The first brought The Modern Slavery Act came into force in together chief executives from across the October 2015.
It requires all UK companies sector with government and NHS officials to with a turnover of 36 million or more to report consider the main health issues which the annually on its workforce and supply chain, industry faces.
The second was a follow-up specifically to confirm that workers are not summit at which nominated experts from enslaved or trafficked.
We are carrying out relevant businesses met to set and commit to due diligence to better understand the risks shared health standards.
We will continue to involved and will be setting out our compliance take a leadership role in this area.
requirements and monitoring approach to contractors.
We appreciate these issues can Safety also affect smaller-scale but equally important In June 2015, a construction worker for one of partners who are not caught by the new our contractors died whilst unpacking a glass legislation.
So we will be helping them to meet cladding panel at our 20 Eastbourne Terrace, our new standards and reporting requirements W2 development.
We were deeply saddened too another example where leadership can by this news and our thoughts remain with the enhance governance and at the same time SETTING STANDARDS: individuals family, friends and colleagues.
was immediately suspended on site and we HEALTH, SAFETY AND liaised with the construction management SECURITY team, our contractors and relevant authorities to understand and address the cause of this The Board believes that the Company should tragic accident, which is still under investigation WHILE WORKING WITH lead the property and construction sectors on by the Health and Safety Executive.
We have LAND SECURITIES WE health, safety and security, and not leave it to worked with our contractors to review material others to define standards.
The leadership HAVE DEVELOPED AND storage and handling on site, as a preliminary team clearly sets out its high expectations, investigation found that this was a contributory SET NEW STANDARDS, then encourages and helps employees and factor.
We have shared information and partners, including contractors, to achieve NOT ONLY ON LAND insights on the incident with all of our principal them.
A strong governance framework contractors and are now working with them to SECURITIES SITES underpins our approach.
further enhance standards, particularly in BUT ACROSS OUR The Board has delegated ongoing relation to the packing of materials for oversight ofhealth, safety and security to the WHOLE BUSINESS AND transportation and site procedures.
He chairs the THE CONSTRUCTION Group Health, Safety and Security Committee, Security INDUSTRY.
WE VALUE to which all sub-committees, teams and From 1 April 2016 we have extended the remit individuals report, and he includes updates THEIR LEADERSHIP AND of the Health and Safety Committee specifically in his regular reports to the Board.
The Group to include Security.
Again, we aim to take a PARTNERING APPROACH.
Head of Health, Safety and Security, Clive leadership approach in tackling threats that Johnson, reports in person to the Board may impact our customers, communities, Dylan Roberts, Director of Health, Safety and twice a year and quarterly to the Executive partners and employees, such as terrorism, Environment, Skanska Committee and each of the London and Retail management teams.
All of this work is SECURITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE supported by input from our continuous improvement groups, external specialists, insurance experts and an annual cycle of Chief Executive audits and inspections.
Getting our leaders out and about to spread the Companys message and see our policy in action is vitally important.
Robert and Group Head of Health, Safety and Security Clive regularly attend construction sites as well as our property assets.
Newly appointed National Counter Security Advisor Non-executive Directors must visit at least one Terrorism Security External Oce NaCTSO site with Clive within six months of joining and all Non-executive Directors discuss health and Group Health, Safety safety matters on site visits.
and Security Committee Centre for the Protection of National Health Infrastrucuture CPNI In the UK construction industry, health has not been given the same high profile as safety, London Health, Safety Retail Health, Safety and but it too is a critical area of concern and and Security Committee Security Committee responsibility.
In the 12 month period to 31March 2015, there were 35 worker fatalities
