STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 61 BOARD, COMMITTEES AND DIRECTORS PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CYCLE EFFECTIVENESS YEAR 3 YEAR 2 YEAR 1 Progress reviewed Review focused on Independent, generally coupled with Year 1 issues raised externally focused questionnaire and any new issues Nomination Committee activity facilitated review and or interviews with arising The key areas of Committee activity the Chairman during the year included: the Boards structure, size, composition, skills and diversity the composition of the Boards Committees potential conflicts of interest ofDirectors succession planning for the Board and Board evaluation senior management 2015 2016 talent identification and development in the Group Conclusions Eectiveness the suitability of the Non-executive from this years Progress review review of the Board Area of focus Directors to continue in office review and against targets and Committee for 2016 17 areas identied set for 2015 16 workings conducted the commencement of a search for a externally for improvement new Non-executive Director.
Board evaluation 2015 16 The Directors believe that they are able to Brexit, cyber-crime, terrorism and other With internal evaluations having been carried challenge each other during Board meetings, geo-political events had become important out in each of the last two years, an external and that the spirit of openness which exists agenda items that had demanded, and evaluation of the Board and its Committees enables everyone to participate fully in received, increased time from the Board was conducted this year in keeping with the discussions.
The Directors were observed to during the year.
guidance provided under the UK Corporate take their responsibilities seriously and be Governance Code.
It was facilitated by Ffion committed to their roles, and the culture of Areas of focus for 2016 17 Hague of Independent Board Evaluation IBE, transparency that exists between them is seen Directors would like Board meetings to a specialist consultancy which undertakes no as a key strength.
The Board is pleased with the increase the amount of time allocated to other business for the Company.
increasing amount of time being allocated to risks and challenges that could impact the The Chairman, together with the Chief future issues that may affect the business, whilst business, particularly at a time of increasing Executive and Company Secretary, provided a at the same time maintaining rigorous oversight market uncertainty comprehensive briefing to IBE in September of ongoing performance.
The evaluation included attendance and Directors are keen to allocate time to site As with every high performing board, the observation at Board and Committee meetings visits, supported by ongoing professional Directors continue to look for areas of in November and December, as well access to development, in order to increase their level improvement.
The Board will devote more time supporting materials to enhance the evaluation of business awareness and engagement to engage in strategic debate and involve core teams understanding of how the Board and its At a time when the Company is engaged on business teams in that discussion.
It will also Committees operate.
In addition, detailed fewer development projects, Directors use a combination of experience gained from interviews were conducted with each Director intend to review the way the Board tracks past investment decisions and the general against a tailored agenda, and with other progress on previously approved major approach to risks and uncertainties facing the members of the Executive Committee and projects and initiatives.
business to contribute to its forward-looking senior managers in the business, as well as considerations.
This will be supplemented external advisers who work closely with the Board environment and access to by a sequence of ongoing professional.
Board and its Committees appropriate information development topics and visits to some of the A final report and recommendations were The topic of the Board environment and culture Companys assets.
The Chairman will lead presented to the Board at its meeting in of transparency at its meetings came out these changes with support from the Chief February 2016 and considered by the Directors.
favourably in this years evaluation report.
The Executive and Company Secretary.
Separate reports were prepared for the Audit, attendance at Board meetings of other Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and members of the executive team and senior Progress against targets set for 2015 16 in each case the conclusions were discussed by managers within the business continues to be In addition to considering the results of this those Committees at their meetings in March encouraged.
years externally facilitated evaluation, the 2016.
The Chairman also received a report on In addition to Board meetings, the Directors reviewed progress against the each Director which she subsequently reviewed Directors have a number of dinners each year targets identified last year: with them individually.
Kevin OByrne, as Senior at least one without the Executive Directors Directors agreed that they had improved Independent Director, received the report on being present atwhich relevant items are the way in which macro-economic data and the Chairman and reviewed it with her.
identified beforehand and discussed in detail.
forecasts were considered and debated The Board and its Committees receive Conclusions from this years review More time was allocated to discussion of the papers in a timely fashion and Directors have The overall conclusion from this years property assets in both London and access to information, support and advice from evaluation was that the Board and its Retail, and to reviewing the content and the Company Secretary and members of his Committees operate to a high standard, strategy of the Retail Portfolio in particular team throughout the year.
62 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Induction POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Table 22 A comprehensive induction programme Nomination Committee decision and mitigating exists for any newly appointed Directors.
Director Potential conflict situation actions taken Dame Alison A non-executive director of Zurich Since the Groups insurance programme Professional development, support and Carnwath Insurance Company Limited with and policy matters are handled by the training for Directors whom the Group places certain of Executive Directors outside of the Board The Board has held several specific its insurance policies and pension and in consultation with its own investments.
independent insurance brokers, the knowledge development sessions during Committee concluded that in practice the year, on such matters as risk, corporate conflicts of interest involving Dame Alison reputation and property cycle and market Carnwath and Zurich Insurance were trends.
These were found to be extremely unlikely to occur.
useful to the broader discussion at Board level.
Directors also receive regular reports Chris Bartram An adviser to Orchard Street The Nomination Committee does not facilitating greater awareness and Investment Management OSIM seeany potential conflict situations arising and a Board Counsellor of The from Mr. Bartrams advisory role at OSIM.
understanding of the Groups business and Crown Estate, both of which are, the legal, regulatory and industry-specific Mr. Bartram retired from his role at in some areas of operation, TheCrown Estate on 31 December 2015 environment in which it operates.
This is competitors of the Group.
and prior to that did not take part in any complemented by visits to properties owned, The Crown Estate is also the discussions, or see relevant information, managed or being developed by the Group Groups joint venture partner regarding potential new transactions with which enables a deeper insight into the at a major development.
operations of the business and provides Directors with the opportunity to meet with Kevin OByrne Executive Director of Kingfisher Kingfisher and Poundland lease a number plc and, subsequently, Chief of retail properties from the Company at local management teams and leaders.
Executive Designate of Poundland several of its shopping centres around the Group PLC, both of which are country.
However, since operational Board strategy review customers of the Group.
matters, such as retail leasing, are unlikely The Board held a two-day strategy meeting to be considered at Board level, the in February to consider a number of relevant Committee concluded that in practice topics, including: conflicts of interest involving Mr. OByrne and his employers were unlikely to occur.
a retailers perspective of consumer trends the workspace of the future Mr. OByrne resigned his position at Kingfisher effective 15 May 2015.
He took up macro-economic trends and risks affecting his position at Poundland effective 4 April the business 2016 and will become its Chief Executive the outlook for the property market.
Diversity policy Cressida Hogg CBE Managing Director, Head of In her role, Ms. Hogg will not have any The Board embraces diversity in its broadest Infrastructure, of the Canada involvement with the development in sense, believing that a wide range of Pension Plan Investment Board question as this is managed by a different CPPIB which is the Groups joint business unit within CPPIB.
As an additional experience, background, perspective, skills venture partner at a major precaution, the Group will not share any and knowledge combine to contribute towards development.
sensitive information on that development a high performing, effective Board, which is with her and she has agreed not to better able to support and direct the Company.
participate in any Board discussion that Land Securities continues to make good relates to it.
progress in terms of greater diversity.
We are Edward Bonham Vice Chairman of Jupiter Fund Mr. Bonham Carters position is such that he pleased that we have already met the recently Carter Management plc, a fund manager is unlikely to be involved in the selection of increased target set by Lord Davies for women which evaluates investments that particular investments and has agreed not to represent 33% of the Board of FTSE 350 may or may not include those of to participate in any investment decisions companies by 2020.
This is supported by a the Group.
which may involve the Groups securities.
new mentoring programme that has been Jupiter is also a customer of the Since operational matters, such as office introduced specifically to assist women at all Group.
leasing, are unlikely to be considered at levels to reach their full potential within the Board level, the Committee concluded that Company.
This programme has the backing in practice conflicts of interest involving of the Chairman who, together with the Group Mr. Bonham Carter and his employer were unlikely to occur.
HR Director, hosted a launch dinner with participants to help communicate the purpose and intention of this new initiative.
Diversity is more than just gender based, and the Board will continue to focus in the coming year on this important issue in its wider context.
Conflicts of Interest The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, manage any potential conflicts of interest that Directors may have.
The Nomination Committee monitors the situation and determines the actions necessary to address potential conflicts of interest as detailed in the table opposite.
