Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Leadership The Role of the Board Board Committees The Board is collectively responsible to its shareholders for The Board has three Committees of Non Executive the long term success of the business.
It seeks to achieve Directors to which it has delegated a number of its this through effective leadership, strategy development responsibilities: the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and delivery, and the management and control of its Committees.
The Committees ensure a strong resources and inherent risks.
governance framework for decision making and each operates within dened terms of reference which are There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman reviewed annually by each Committee and the Board and Chief Executive which has been approved by the and which are available on written request and on the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board Companys website: www.
and monitoring its effectiveness and the Chief Executive, supported by the Executive Directors, is responsible for The Audit and Remuneration Committees are composed the day to day management of the Group and the entirely of Independent Non Executive Directors.
implementation and delivery of its agreed strategic The Nomination Committee includes the Chairman objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring whois not considered to be independent but his a constructive relationship between Executive and attendance is permitted by the Code.
The Company Non Executive Directors and for encouraging and Secretary acts as secretary to each Committee.
fostering a culture of Boardroom challenge and debate.
The Chairman of each Committee reports the He maintains regular contact with the Executive Directors outcomeof meetings to the Board.
The Executive Committee meets monthly to discuss Each of the Non Executive Directors, other than property investment, development and asset the Chairman, is considered by the Board to be management activities, financial and operating targets independent.
Committees comprise only independent and performance and the management of the business Non Executive Directors, other than the Nomination and its staff.
There are informal meetings between the Committee as permitted by the Code.
The Boards Executive Directors at other times and they are involved composition throughout the year met the Codes in all significant business discussions and decisions due to requirement that at least half of its members, excluding the size of the organisation.
the Chairman, are independent Non Executive Directors.
The Executive Committee has established three sub Committees: the Investment Committee, chaired by Valentine Beresford, the Asset Management Committee, chaired by Mark Stirling and the Finance Committee, chaired by Martin McGann.
These Committees comprise Executive Directors and members of the senior A balanced board management team and meet at least monthly.
Composition Tenure 13 years Executive 27% 3 69 years 36% 18% 2 36 years Non Executive 55% 6 64% 1 Tenure has been reected from Gender diversity the date of appointment to the LondonMetric Board Female 2 All charts reect the 9% composition of the Board asat31 March 2016 Male 91% Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Leadership continued Governance framework The Board Chairman Comprises Role Patrick Vaughan 4 Executive and Responsible to the 7 Non Executive Directors shareholders for the long term strategy, control and leadership of the Group Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Rosalyn Wilton James Dean Charles Cayzer Andrew Jones Comprises Comprises Comprises Comprises 4 Non Executive 4 Non Executive 4 Non Executive 4 Executive Directors Directors Directors Directors 1 Senior Executive Role Role Role Role Oversees corporate Determines and Evaluates Board Implementation of reporting, risk maintains a fair reward appointments, strategy, achievement management and structure to incentivise composition, skills, of targets, day to day internal control and the Executive Directors effectiveness, management of the the external audit succession and business process diversity Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee report Committee report Committee report see page 71 see page 78 see page 64 Management Committees Investment Asset Finance Committee Management Committee Committee Chairman Chairman Valentine Beresford Chairman Martin McGann Mark Stirling Comprises Comprises 4 Executive Comprises 4 Executive Directors and senior 4 Executive Directors and senior management Directors and senior management management Role Role Reviews investment Role Reviews budgets and divestment Reviews value and forecasts, opportunities enhancing activities achievement of and development targets, funding opportunities requirements and liquidity The framework reects the composition of the Board as at 31 March 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Leadership continued How we divide up our responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Non Executive Directors Senior Independent Director Patrick Vaughan Andrew Jones Charles Cayzer Charles Cayzer James Dean Alec Pelmore Andrew Varley Philip Watson Rosalyn Wilton Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Leads the Board and Manages dialogue and Constructively challenge Acts as a sounding board ensures it operates communication with the Executive Directors for the Chairman and effectively shareholders in determining and trusted intermediary for implementing strategy the other Directors Sets Board agenda and Recommends and tone and promotes implements strategy Bring independent Available as a Boardroom debate approved by the Board judgement and scrutiny communication channel to decisions taken by the for shareholders if Builds relationships Day to day management Executive Board other means are not between Executive and of the business operations appropriate Non Executive Directors and personnel assisted Monitor delivery of by the Executive team agreed strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board Review the integrity of financial information and risk management systems The Senior Independent Director acts as an intermediary Non Executive Directors to the Executive Directors for the Non Executive Directors The Non Executive Directors are a diverse group with and shareholders as required.
He is available to meet a wide range of experience encompassing property, with shareholders at their request to address concerns or, finance, fund management, risk management and if other communication channels fail, to resolve queries retailing.
They provide a valued role by challenging raised.
No such requests were received from shareholders aspects of executive decisions and monitoring the in the year.
delivery of the agreed strategy.
They bring independent The Non Executive Directors meet regularly with the and objective scrutiny and judgement to all matters Chairman without the Executive Directors present to raised, ensuring that no one individual has unfettered discuss business matters and their contribution.
On appointment Non Executive Directors are advised Charles Cayzer is a Non Executive Director of Caledonia of the likely time commitment to full the role.
The ability Investments Plc, a shareholder of the Company holding a of individual Directors to allocate sufficient time to 1.9% interest as at the date of this report.
Charles Cayzer discharge their responsibilities is considered as part himself is not a shareholder in the Company and the of the annual evaluation process undertaken by the Board is satisfied that there are procedures in place Nomination Committee.
The Board is satisfied that each at Caledonia Investments to address this potential of the Non Executive Directors is able to devote sufficient conict.
The Board does not believe Charles Cayzers time to the Companys business.
independence is compromised by his position and is satisfied that he is able to carry out his function as Senior Independent Director effectively.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Leadership continued Board membership and attendance Name Appointed Board meetings2 Independent Y N Chairman Patrick Vaughan 13 January 2010 6 6 N A1 Executive Directors Andrew Jones 25 January 2013 6 6 N Martin McGann 13 January 2010 6 6 N Valentine Beresford 3 June 2014 6 6 N Mark Stirling 3 June 2014 6 6 N Non Executive Directors Charles Cayzer 29 July 2010 5 6 Y James Dean 29 July 2010 6 6 Y Andrew Varley 25 January 2013 5 6 Y Alec Pelmore 25 January 2013 6 6 Y Philip Watson 25 January 2013 6 6 Y Rosalyn Wilton 25 March 2014 6 6 Y Percentage independent1 60% 1 Provision B.
1.1 of the Code regarding independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman 2 Bracketed numbers indicate the number of meetings the member was eligible to attend The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together As reported in the Nomination Committee report with further ad hoc meetings as required to deal with on page 68, an executive search company was transactional matters.
Non Executive Directors are commissioned to source possible candidates for new encouraged to communicate directly and openly Non Executive Directors of the Company.
As a result of with the Executive Directors and senior management this search Andrew Livingston was appointed as a Non between scheduled Board meetings, as part of each Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee Directors contribution to the delivery of strategy.
He will replace Charles Cayzer who is The table above shows Directors attendance at retiring in September 2016. meetings they were eligible to attend during the year.
Philip Watson will replace Charles Cayzer as Senior Attendance at Committee meetings is set out in each Independent Director and Rosalyn Wilton and James Committee report.
Dean will be appointed to the Remuneration and All Directors are expected to attend all meetings Nomination Committees respectively following the of the Board and of the Committees on which they AGMin July.
serve, and to devote sufficient time to the Companys Patrick Vaughan will be appointed as Chairman of the affairs to enable them to full their duties as Directors.
Nomination Committee following the AGM.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, papers will be provided in advance and their comments are provided to the Board prior to the meeting.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Leadership continued Board activities in2016 Day to day management of the Group is delegated to the Executive Directors, subject to formal delegated authority limits.
Certain matters are reserved for consideration by the full Board, which are reviewed and updated annually and in 2016 included consideration of the following: Strategy Financial Governance People Strategy and three Interim and annual Risk appetite and culture Reviewing succession year financial budgets financial statements planning and tenure Risk register and quarterly and performance, Interim and annual dashboard update, Reviewing executive including and focus on property valuations including debate remuneration and retailer-led distribution of significant and performance and convenience retail Financing arrangements, emergingrisks sectors available debt facilities Health & Safety and financial covenants Effectiveness of Property and retail the internal control market outlook, general Dividends declared and framework to economic climate and the dividendpolicy managerisks competitor activity Developments in significant property corporate governance acquisitions and disposals and regulatory Major capital requirements including expenditure and the Viability Statement development projects and going concern principal Shareholder interests, relations and liaison Performance evaluation of the Board and Committees Professional development Board priorities in2017 Newly appointed Directors participate in a tailored Implementation of Set a base EPS target induction programme and receive a comprehensive business objectives for the 2016 LTIP awards pack of information on the Group, its business and the in line with strategy and annual bonus for to promote the long the year to 31 March governance structure.
term success of the 2017 Company Ongoing training and information updates in relation Review existing to the Groups business and regulatory framework are Consider regulatory and Remuneration Policy in provided to the Directors through Board brieng papers, technical developments advance of shareholder on the horizon including approval required in reports and seminars from advisors, presentations by the Modern Slavery Act, July 2017 senior executives and property visits.
Each Director is the Prompt Payment expected to maintain his or her professional skills and Succession planning code, Gender Pay and ongoing Board take responsibility for identifying their individual training Gap reporting, the EU refreshment needs to ensure they are adequately informed about the Audit Directive and Integrated reporting Groups strategy, business and responsibilities.
Continue to embed Non Executive Directors are encouraged to familiarise risk culture into all daily themselves with the Groups business through regular business activities and communications with the Executive Directors and senior promote the early identication and management.
One of the Non Executive Directors mitigation of risks accompanied a site visit to the Next Distribution warehouse in Doncaster in the year.
