Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Governance at work The Board seeks to promote and embed a culture of good governance into its daily activities and continues to uphold the principles of good governance by adhering to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for creating and delivering the long term success of the business.
This report sets out the Companys governance policies and practices and explains how it complies with the four main provisions of the Code.
Leadership Effectiveness See pages 58 62 See pages 63 68 The Board provides The Board has considered The Board sets the Groups An external Board evaluation leadership either directly the length of service of Non strategic objectives and exercise was undertaken by or through the operation Executive Directors and approves and monitors Law Debenture last year.
In doing commissioned Zygos, a performance against In February 2016, an internal so Directors have regard specialist search agency, budgets and forecasts.
performance review was to the interests of the to prepare a shortlist of undertaken which involved Companys shareholders candidates with the requisite completing a questionnaire, and employees, the impact skills and experience to start collating the results and on the Communities within to refresh the Board.
follow up review and debate.
which it operates and Andrew Livingston, Chief the environment.
Findings were positive and Executive of Screwx, has concluded that the Board been appointed to the Non and its Committees continue Executive Board, replacing to operate effectively.
Charles Cayzer who will retire in September 2016.
Accountability Remuneration See pages 69 77 See pages 78 95 The Board is responsible for The Audit Committee has The role of the Remuneration amendments to the establishing and maintaining considered and challenged Committee is to determine implementation of the Policy the Groups system of risk the process followed to and maintain a fair reward for the next financial year management and internal allow the Board to make the structure that incentivises were necessary to maintain controls and has delegated statement on the Companys Directors to deliver the an appropriate level of responsibility for reviewing longer term viability as Groups strategic objectives retention and incentive its effectiveness and required by the Code.
whilst maintaining stability in for the highly regarded compliance with the new the management of its long Executive Director team.
The Executive Directors have provisions of the Code to the term business.
met with, and presented The Committee considered Audit Committee.
to, over 200 investors and Although there are no it important to maintain an Following revisions to the analysts throughout the year.
changes proposed to the open and timely dialogue Code in 2014 the system of Remuneration Policy for the with shareholders and wrote reporting and reviewing year ahead, the Committee to them in February 2016 risks at Board level has been carried out a thorough to explain the rationale considered and improved review of the variable for the amendments.
with the introduction of a risk elements of remuneration Shareholders were supportive dashboard as an agenda and concluded that some of the changes proposed.
item at each Board meeting.
