AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued as well as policies regarding Enterprise-wide Risk FOLLOWING THE COMBINATION: management, external auditor independence and MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL PLC non-audit services.
FORMERLY AL NOOR HOSPITALS The Committee has continued to monitor and GROUP PLC keep abreast of regulatory developments across Since the Combination, the Committee has been all jurisdictions throughout the year.
Amongst principally focused on the following: i monitoring those considered, it has discussed its additional the risk management process and systems of responsibilities in respect of the Code and EU internal control for the Group through the review of Audit reform.
the activities of its operating platforms in Southern Africa, Switzerland and the Middle East, the Groups SIGNIFICANT ISSUES internal and external auditors, and the Groups risk management function: ii approval of the external The Committee, through a process of consultation audit engagement and fees: iii review of the internal with both management and the external auditor, audit reports and approval of the internal audit considered the following significant issues relating to engagement and fees for the 2016 17 financial year: the presentation of the Groups financial statements.
iv considering and making recommendations to The principal accounting policies applied in the the Board relating to the Groups Annual Report, preparation of the annual financial statements are the financial statements and any other reports detailed on pages 141 to 152.
If applicable, further AR with reference to the financial affairs of the Group detail in the notes to the financial statements relating for external distribution or publication, including to the below issues are referenced as indicated.
those required by any regulatory or statutory body: v review of the Committees terms of reference, SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED STEPS TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE The disclosure and accounting of the Al Noor The Committee reviewed the purchase price allocation including: reverse acquisition in the financial statements determining of the acquisition date: identifying the acquirer and acquiree: the allocation of tangible and intangible assets at fair value: and the recognition of goodwill.
The Committee considered the alignment of Al Noor's accounting policies and the reasonableness of the adjustments made to the opening balance sheet and considered legal and any other contingent liabilities.
The Committee was satisfied with the disclosure of the reverse acquisition in the financial statements.
The acquisition of Al Noor for a total consideration of 1.3bn led to the recognition of goodwill to the value of 1 189m and intangible assets of 57m.
Refer to notes 6 and 28 to the financial statements on pages 159 and 191 to 195.
AR The Committee also reviewed managements approach to the full retrospective application of the Groups change in its presentation currency from rand ZAR to pound sterling GBP following the transaction.
The disclosure and accounting of a 29.9% associate The Committee was satisfied that the Group is able to exert sufficient influence interest in Spire in the financial statements over the financial and operating decisions of Spire to support managements judgement that the investment should be equity accounted, with Spire being treated as an associate of the Group.
The Committee considered the carrying value of the Groups investment at 31 March 2016, including an assessment of share price movements since year end, concurring with managements judgement that there is no indication of a significant or prolonged decline in value which might require an impairment charge.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the disclosures relating to the Groups acquisition of its stake in Spire, determining these disclosures to be balanced and understandable.
The Investment in Associate balance as at 31 March 2016 amounted to 451m, and the Income from Associate for the period under review amounted to 6m.
Please also refer to note 7 to the financial statements on pages 161 to 162.
AR 110 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED STEPS TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE Revenue recognition and provisions impacting on The Committee reviewed the Groups accounting policies as well as the basis accounts receivable for the calculations in respect of revenue recognition and provisions impacting accounts receivable, specifi cally the following: tariff risk provisions relating to billing in accordance with provisional health insurance base rates, where these rates have not yet been fi nalised between providers and funders, and also to historical tariff disputes at certain of the Groups Swiss hospitals.
The Committee considered and was satisfi ed with managements judgement and best estimate based on available information: and insurance claim rejections by the health insurance companies and the resulting provision for unrecoverable sales.
The Committee assessed and was satisfi ed with managements judgement, which was based on historic events, to determine the rejection provision.
Please also refer to note 2.20 to the fi financial statements on page 151.
AR Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and The Committee reviewed the annual impairment testing of recognised certain Swiss properties goodwill and the indefi nite life intangible asset.
The Committee considered the reasonableness of the cash fl ow projections which were based on the most recent budget approved by the Board and refl ected managements expectations of revenue growth, operating costs and margins based on past experience and knowledge of the industry.
Long-term growth rates for periods not covered by the annual budget were challenged to ensure they were appropriate in the countries in which the relevant operating platforms operate.
The Committee also reviewed and challenged the key assumptions made in deriving these projections: discount rates, growth rates, and expected changes in tariff s, admissions and patient mix.
The Committee also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of the key assumptions and sensitivities.
Refer to note 6 to the fi financial statements for more details of these assumptions.
The Committee was satisfi ed that the discount rates assumptions appropriately refl ected current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the particular assets.
The other key assumptions were all considered to be reasonable.
The external auditor explained the results of their own review of the estimate of value in use, including their challenge of managements underlying cash fl ow projections, as well as the long-term growth assumptions and discount rates.
On the basis of their audit work, and their challenge of the key assumptions and associated sensitivities, they concurred with managements conclusion that no impairments were required.
Please also refer to note 6 to the fi financial statements on pages 159 to 160.
AR Capital expenditure relating to buildings The Committee considered the appropriateness of the capitalisation of capital expenditure incurred in respect of hospital buildings as well as the depreciation thereof.
The Committee evaluated managements judgement applied in respect of the residual value and useful lives of buildings and also considered whether managements estimate for deprecation rates were appropriate.
AR The Committee was satisfi ed with the capitalisation and depreciation policies of buildings that were applied.
Please also refer to note 5 to the fi financial statements on page 157.
Viability assessment The Committee has reviewed the Company's new viability statement and, in particular, understanding the analysis which was prepared by management and supports the Board's view that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the longer period assessed.
111 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK INTERNAL AUDIT The Board is ultimately responsible for overseeing the MANAGEMENT establishment of effective internal control systems The Board believes that effective risk management which are reviewed by the Committee, and which underpins the running of a successful business and facilitate the delivery of and sustain the Groups is integral to the objective of constantly adding financial, operational and strategic objectives.
It has adopted an integrated and effective risk management framework, at both During the year, the Committee of Al Noor received an operational and strategic level: identifying, regular reports on the control environment from its quantifying and managing principal risks in order to Internal Audit Director who was supported by achieve an optimal risk reward profile.
This has been an internal audit team, as well as outsourcing certain incorporated into the daily operational management internal audit reviews to Deloitte LLP.
This Committee processes, allowing management to focus on reviewed and considered the key improvement core activities.
The Board has a clear process for themes and areas for focus, and assessed the identifying, evaluating and managing the principal responsiveness of management in addressing internal risks faced by the Group for the period under review audit actions.
and up to the date of the report.
The process is The internal audit function in relation to Mediclinic reviewed annually by the Board and is in accordance International Limited was outsourced to Remgro with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Audit who regularly attended Committee Internal Control and Related Financial and Business meetings and reported on the findings of their Reporting and the requirements of the Code.
They were responsible for measuring The Groups Enterprise-wide Risk Management Policy the effectiveness of the system of internal financial is benchmarked against the international Committee control in respect of each operating platform within of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway the Group.
Commission framework, which defines the risk Since the Combination, the Committee has management objectives, methodology, process and considered and discussed with Remgro Internal the responsibilities of the various risk management Audit, the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, role-players for the Group.
This policy provides reliability of financial reporting and compliance with structure within which directors and management applicable laws and regulations.
can operate in order to reinforce a strong risk management culture throughout the Group.
It sets While the Committee continues to believe that the tone and acts as a starting point for all other Remgro Internal Audit is effective in its provision of components of risk management and control in internal audit and compliance services to the Group, providing the necessary discipline and structure.
it has taken the opportunity, following the completion of the Al Noor transaction and the Group's entry The Board retains full and effective control over into the FTSE 100, to consider what internal audit the Company and is responsible for monitoring arrangement would be most appropriate for the managements implementation of board decisions Group going forward.
As part of this consideration, and strategies.
The Board ensures that the Group the Committee has evaluated the various internal complies with all the relevant laws, regulations and audit arrangements in place across the FTSE 100. codes of business practice.
The Committee assists As a result of this exercise, the Committee has the Board, by routinely reviewing and monitoring concluded that the Group will exit the outsourced the risk management process and Group internal Remgro Internal Audit arrangement and will bring control systems.
more internal audit resource in-house, including a Head of Internal Audit.
This change in the Group's internal audit arrangements will be made in a phased manner to avoid any disruption to the Group's internal audit and compliance activities during the hand-over process.
The Committee will provide an update about the progress being made in effecting this change in its future reports to shareholders.
112 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION AUDIT TENDER EXTERNAL AUDIT This is the fi first year that the UK current lead audit During the year, KPMG LLP resigned and partner, Giles Hannam, has been involved in the audit  LLP PwC UK of the Group.
As a result of the UKs implementation was appointed auditor of the Company, of the EUs mandatory fi rm rotation requirements, following shareholder approval granted at the and in accordance with the Committees terms of 15 December 2015 general meeting in respect reference, the Company is required to ensure that of the change of auditor.
the external auditors contract is put out to tender at The Committee is responsible for overseeing the least every 10 years, with the proviso that no single external auditors on behalf of the Board, including fi rm may serve as the Companys auditor for a period approving the annual audit work plan and approving exceeding 20 years.
Under these arrangements, the the audit fee.
external audit must be put out to tender no later than for the fi financial year commencing 1 April 2023.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE, EFFECTIVENESS NON-AUDIT SERVICES AND RE-APPOINTMENT The Committee believes that it may be appropriate in certain circumstances for the Company to engage The Committee is committed to ensuring its external auditor to provide non-audit services.
It that the Group receives a high-quality and has established a policy which seeks to ensure the eff ective statutory audit.
It is responsible for independence and objectivity of the external auditor monitoring the performance, objectivity and is not compromised.
independence of the external auditor PwC and undertakes a formal evaluation process each year.
Examples of prohibited non-audit services are This process involves an examination of fi five main bookkeeping services, valuation services, payroll performance criteria including robustness of the services, legal services, designing risk management audit process, independence and objectivity, quality systems or management in the audited entity.
of delivery, quality of people and service, and For other services, it can be more effi cient or value-added advice.
prudent to engage the external auditor rather than another party, on the basis that the service will not The Committee has evaluated the eff ectiveness compromise independence or objectivity, is a natural of PwC South Africa as auditors of Mediclinic extension of the audit or if there are overriding International Limited for the period up to the business, effi ciency or confi dentiality reasons which Combination, 15 February 2016, and PwC UK as make the external auditors most suited to provide auditors post-Combination of the newly formed the service.
Group, Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc.
The Committee determines the pre-approved monetary thresholds for each category of non-audit As this is PwC UKs fi first year with the Group, the services in the beginning of each fi financial year.
When Committee was only able to assess their work as determining this, the nature of the non-audit services, from the Combination up to the fi financial yearthe individual fee levels of each category and the end.
The assessment resulted in the following aggregate fee amount relative to the external audit observations: fee are taken into account.
Feedback on non-audit PwC UK demonstrated a good understanding of services performed is given at each meeting and the business and its values: when necessary further approvals for increased fees The team was challenging, but supportive on are discussed.
technical matters: and During the year, fees for the non-audit service The establishment of a combined approach work carried out by PwC were abnormally high.
towards the signifi cant issues debated.
This exceptional level refl ects the considerable services PwC has provided relating to the Al Noor The external auditor receives copies of all relevant Combination, particularly in relation to the Class 1 Committee papers and minutes of all Committee Circular.
The Committee considered that hiring PwC meetings.
As part of the Committees assessment of to undertake these non-audit services was in the best the external auditor, separate meetings have been interests of shareholders because: held between the non-executive directors and the external auditor, without management being present.
PwC possessed the type of expertise, experience, size and international scope to handle such a The Committee is satisfi ed that the services provided complex transaction.
by the auditor have been of high quality and has concluded that the auditor remains objective and The Company benefi ted specifi cally from PwC's independent.
Accordingly, it has recommended in-depth knowledge and understanding of our to the Board the re-appointment of PwC UK as business.
the Companys external auditor is proposed to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
113 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued To maintain the external auditor's independence COMPETITION AND MARKETS and objectivity, the Committee requires that an AUTHORITY STATUTORY AUDIT independent partner is appointed to lead any nonaudit services.
We anticipate that non-audit fees SERVICES ORDER 2014 payable to PwC will return to more normalised levels CMA Order in 2017 following the completion of any services related to the Al Noor Combination.
During the year, the Company has complied with the mandatory audit processes and the Committee has Looking forward, the Committee has considered complied with the responsibility provisions required the UK implementation of the EU Audit Directive by it in connection with the CMA Order.
The work of including the introduction of prohibitions for certain the Committee in discharging its responsibilities is types of non-audit service.
In response to these new explained in more detail in this report on page 113.
AR requirements, the Committee has asked management to update the Group's non-audit services policy in FAIR, BALANCED AND order to ensure compliance from the application date for the Group, namely 1 April 2017.
The Committee UNDERSTANDABLE will provide an update about the new non-audit The Committee is satisfied that one of the key services policy in its future reports to shareholders, compliance requirements of the Groups financial including an overview of the additional non-audit statements, for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced services, which will be prohibited in 2017, and the cap and understandable has been met, having reviewed which will be imposed on the level of non-audit fees a summary of the approach taken by management payable to PwC by comparison to its audit fees.
in the preparation of the report to ensure that it met the requirements of the Code.
Accordingly, the FEES Committee has recommended that the Board confirm the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as Refer to note 21 to the Consolidated Financial AR a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
Statements on page 186 for detail on the remuneration of the auditor.
In addition to the non-audit services described above, PwC South Africa also provided audit and non-audit services to Remgro Limited and tax services to two directors on the Board during the year.
The Committee is satisfied and comfortable that the tax services provided to the directors did not compromise the independence of the auditor, as the directors Dr Edwin Hertzog and Mr Jannie Durand were not involved in financial reporting oversight, nor did they sit on the Committee.
In addition, the services which were provided to them are not prohibited under regulations.
114 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION The Group adopts a no-tolerance policy with regard ETHICAL CONDUCT to unethical business conduct, in particular also fraud The Group remains focused on conducting its and corruption, which is addressed in the Code of business in an honest, fair and ethical manner, a Business Conduct and Ethics.
Also in place is an principle which is actively endorsed by the Board and Anti-bribery Policy which supports its commitment management.
The Committee oversees the Groups to ensure compliance with all anti-bribery and processes for handling the business ethics code and corruption laws and regulations.
The Group has strict anti-bribery policy.
This includes receiving regular policies relating to any invitations, gifts or donations feedback from the risk manager regarding incidents received from suppliers or any other party, and reported on the ethics lines and the eff ectiveness of employees throughout the Group are compelled to the lines.
The Board has also established a Clinical declare these to management for approval.
Staff Performance and Sustainability Committee, the members involved in the contracting, negotiating and AR details of which can be found on page 70 of the purchasing of equipment or consumables are also Corporate Governance Statement.
bound to strict ethical principles, ensuring that an impeccable standard of integrity is maintained in the The Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Groups business relationships.
provides a framework for directors and employees within the Group of the standards of business Copies of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics conduct and ethics that is required of them, and and the Anti-bribery Policy can be found on the which applies to all business divisions within the governance section of the Companys website at Group.
It serves to ensure that the highest ethical www.
standards are maintained in all dealings with the Groups stakeholders.
It is available to all staff Signed on behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee.
and communicated to new employees during their induction.
The code contains the Groups whisteblowing arrangements, setting out the details of the Groups ethics lines.
Any employee or external stakeholder is able to report any wrongdoing throughout the Group on a confi dential and Desmond Smith anonymous basis to the ethics lines.
All complaints Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee are investigated in accordance with the code.
25 May 2016 115 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT Prof Dr Robert Leu, Nandi Mandela, Danie Meintjes, The directors of Mediclinic International plc Trevor Petersen, Craig Tingle and Desmond Smith formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc are were appointed by the Board following completion of pleased to present the Companys Directors the Combination of the Company then named Report for the period to 31 March 2016.
The Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic information contained in this report provides International Limited with effect from details of Mediclinic International plc following 15 February 2016.
These directors will retire and the completion of the Combination of seek election by the shareholders at the annual Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic general meeting to be held on 20 July 2016. International Limited.
Remgro Limited, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, Remgro holds 44.56% of the issued ordinary DISCLOSURES INCORPORATED shares of the Company and is therefore regarded as a controlling shareholder of the Company, for BY REFERENCE the purposes of the Listing Rules.
The Listing Rules The following disclosures required to be included require that independent non-executive directors of AR in this Directors Report have been incorporated a company with a controlling shareholder must be by way of reference to other sections of this report elected by a majority of votes cast by independent SDR or the Sustainable Development Report available shareholders, in addition to a majority of votes cast on the Companys website, and should be read in by all shareholders in the company.
The resolutions conjunction with this report: proposed at the annual general meeting for the election of the independent non-executive directors Corporate Governance Statement refer to of the Company will therefore be taken on a poll pages 64 to 73 of the report: and the votes cast by i independent shareholders strategy and relevant future developments refer and ii all shareholders will be calculated separately.
to pages 18 to 21 of the Strategic Report: Such resolutions will be passed only if a majority financial risk management objectives and policies of votes cast by independent shareholders are in refer to the Risk Management Report included in favour, in addition to a majority of votes cast by all the Strategic Report on pages 24 to 29 and note 3 shareholders being in favour.
to the financial statements on pages 152 to 155: All directors biographies can be found on research and development activities various pages 60 to 61.
AR activities, such as the standardised patient experience index, the standardised employee engagement initiatives, research by health policy APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL units, referred to on pages 7, 8, 19, 24, 48 and 50, OF DIRECTORS respectively, of the Strategic Report: The rules relating to the appointment and removal of greenhouse gas emissions refer to page 52 the Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of the Strategic Report and the Sustainable of Association.
Development Report: corporate social responsibility and corporate social investment refer to page 54 of the Strategic POWERS OF DIRECTORS Report and the Sustainable Development Report.
The general powers of the directors are contained within relevant UK legislation and the Companys DIRECTORS Articles of Association.
The directors are entitled to exercise all powers of the Company, subject to any All the directors who served during the reporting limitations imposed by the Articles of Association or period are listed in the Corporate Governance applicable legislation.
Biographies of all the current directors of the Company are provided on pages 60 to 61.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The interests of the directors of the Company at In accordance with the provisions of the UK 31 March 2016 in the issued shares of the Company Corporate Governance Code, all members of the disclosed in accordance with the FCAs Listing Rules Board wishing to continue their appointments seek are given in the Remuneration Report on page 89.
AR re-election by the shareholders.
Accordingly, Ian Tyler The Remuneration Report also sets out details of any and Seamus Keating will retire and seek re-election at changes in those interests between the year end and the annual general meeting to be held on 25 May 2016.
In terms of the Companys Articles of Association, any director appointed as such by the Board of directors shall retire at the following annual general meeting and shall be eligible for election.
Jannie Durand, Alan Grieve, Dr Edwin Hertzog, 116 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION In addition to the ordinary shares, the Company also INDEMNIFICATION OF has a class of 10 subscriber shares of 0.10 each DIRECTORS which are not admitted to trading on a regulated market.
The subscriber shares carry no rights to The Company has entered into a deed of indemnity receive any of the profi ts of the Company available with each director who served during the year under for distribution by way of dividend or otherwise.
The deeds indemnify the directors If there is a return of capital on a winding-up or in accordance with the applicable laws of England otherwise, the assets of the Company available for against all liability incurred as a director or employee distribution among the members shall be applied of the Company or of certain other entities.
In fi first in repaying in full to the holder of the subscriber addition, the Company has put into place directors' shares the amount paid up on such shares.
Except as and offi cers' indemnity insurance.
provided above, the subscriber shares shall not carry any right to participate in profi ts or assets of the COMPENSATION FOR LOSS Company.
The holders of the subscriber shares shall OF OFFICE not be entitled to receive notice of or attend and vote at any general meeting of the Company unless There are no agreements in place with any director a resolution is proposed which varies, modifi es, that would provide compensation for loss of offi ce alters or abrogates any of the rights attaching to the or employment resulting from a takeover, except that subscriber shares.
provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to The subscriber shares represent less than 0.01% of vest on a takeover.
Further information on directors the Companys total issued share capital.
Further service contracts and their notice periods and any information on the Companys issued share capital vested awards to previous directors made following AR can be found on pages 168 to 171 in the Notes to the the Combination can be found in the Remuneration fi financial statements.
As outlined in the Companys Report on pages 80 to 81.
AR prospectus dated 19 November 2015, the Company intends to purchase and cancel the 10 subscriber ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION shares and a resolution to this eff ect has been included in the notice of annual general meeting The Articles of Association may be amended by way AGM for consideration by shareholders.
of a special resolution of the members.
At the general meeting held on 15 December 2015, shareholders There are no known arrangements under which approved by special resolution that the amended fi financial rights are held by a person other than the Articles of Association would take eff ect at the date holder of the shares.
The Company has no intention of completion of the Combination, which occurred on to complete a market purchase of its shares and will 15 February 2016. not seek this authority at the 2016 AGM.
Shares acquired through the Companys share RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS schemes and plans rank equally with the other shares Following the announcement made on 7 August 2015 in issue and have no special rights.
and the general meeting held on 24 August 2015, the Company undertook a related-party transaction RESTRICTION ON VOTING RIGHTS to lease premises from United Al Saqr Group LLC.
Mediclinic International Limited, implemented a Sheikh Mohammed Bin Butti Al Hamed, a Director black ownership initiative in 2015, which had the and principal shareholder of the pre-Combination eff ect of introducing Phodiso Holdings Limited and entity Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, had a controlling MP1 Investment Holdings Pty Ltd as shareholders interest in United Al Saqr Group.
At the general of Mediclinic through two special purpose vehicle meeting, 99.34% of the shares voted approved the companies, Mpilo Investment Holdings 1 RF Pty related-party transaction.
Sheikh Mohammed Bin Ltd subsequently restructured in 2015 with the Butti Al Hamed is no longer a shareholder of the Mediclinic shares currently held by Mpilo 1 Newco Company, as the entire shareholding held through RF Pty Ltd Mpilo 1 and Mpilo Investment Sapor Business Corp, was tendered to Al Noor Holdings 2 RF Pty Ltd Mpilo 2.
As at Hospitals Group plc for cancellation, as announced 25 May 2016, Mpilo 1 held 1.49% of the issued share on 8 February 2016. capital of the Company and Mpilo 2 held 3.33%.
Details on all related-party transactions are contained 10 958 198 representing 1.49% of the issued shares within note 33 of the consolidated fi financial of the Company of the Mediclinic shares held by AR statements on page 200.
Mpilo 1 are restricted and subject to a lock-in period restricting the disposal of its shareholding before 31 December 2019.
Similarly, all the Mediclinic shares SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL held by Mpilo 2 are restricted and subject to a lock-in The Companys ordinary issued share capital as period expiring on 31 December 2018. at 31 March 2016 was 737 243 810 ordinary shares of 0.10 each which have a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and secondary listings on the Johannesburg and Namibian stock exchanges.
The ordinary share class represent over 99.9% of the Companys total issued share capital.
117 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Companys Articles of Association provide Prior to the Combination, the Company entered into that, unless the directors determine otherwise, a a Relationship Agreement with Remgro Limited on shareholder shall not be entitled to vote, either 14 October 2015, which entity was also the principal personally or by proxy, at any general meeting or to shareholder of Mediclinic International Limited.
That exercise any other right conferred by membership if: agreement came into effect on 15 February 2016, on completion of the Combination.
any call or other sum payable to the Company in respectin respect of that share remains unpaid: or Under the Relationship Agreement, Remgro Limited undertakes to comply with the following such shareholder, having been duly served with a independence provisions set out in the agreement, as notice to provide the Company with information required under the Listing Rules: under section 793 of the UK Companies Act, has failed to do so within 14 days, for so long as the transactions and arrangements between the default continues.
Company and itself and or its associates are, and will be, at arms length and on normal ACQUISITION OF OWN SHARES commercial terms: In connection with the Combination of Mediclinic neither it nor any of its associates will take any International Limited and Al Noor Hospitals Group action that would have the effect of preventing plc concluded in February 2016, a total of 63 658 876 the Company from complying with its obligations ordinary shares of 10 pence each were successfully under the Listing Rules: and tendered at a price of 8.32 per ordinary share and neither it nor any of its associates will propose, or were cancelled on 17 February 2016 pursuant to a procure the proposal of, a shareholder resolution court-approved reduction of capital approved by that is intended or appears to be intended to shareholders at the General Meeting held on circumvent the proper application of the 15 December 2015.
Following the reduction of capital, Listing Rules.
the Company has a total of 737 243 810 ordinary The Company has complied with the above shares of 0.10 each in issue.
independence provisions and, in so far as it is aware, the Principal Shareholder has complied with the SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS independence provisions and the procurement As at year end and as at 25 May 2016, being the Last obligation set out in the Relationship Agreement Practicable Date, the following shareholders have from the date of the agreement.
In accordance notified the Company, in accordance with Disclosure with the terms of the Relationship Agreement, for and Transparency Rule 5, of their interest of 3% or every 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the more in the Companys issued share capital.
Company or an interest which carries 10% or more of the aggregate voting rights in the Company from ORDINARY % VOTING time to time held by a Principal Shareholder Group, SHARES RIGHTS the relevant Principal Shareholder shall be entitled to appoint one Director to the Board, up to a maximum Remgro Limited through 328 497 888 44.56% of three Directors, provided that the right to appoint wholly-owned subsidiaries a third director is subject to the requirement that the Public Investment Corporation 55 482 294 7.53% Board will, following such appointment, comprise a Soc Limited majority of independent directors.
Mpilo Investment Holdings 2 24 582 960 3.33% RF Pty Ltd If a Principal Shareholder ceases to hold 10% of the Companys share capital or 10% of the aggregate voting rights in the Company, the rights and PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDER AND obligations of that Principal Shareholder Relationship RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT Agreement shall terminate.
The ordinary shares owned by the Principal Shareholders rank pari passu In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14, the with the other ordinary shares in all respects.
Company has set out below a statement describing the relationship agreement entered into between the Company and its principal shareholder, Remgro Limited.
As at 25 May 2016, Remgro Limited, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, held 44.56% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
