GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION As detailed above, due to the timing of the Combination, an evaluation of the Board and its Committees was not recently undertaken as the Board and its Committees had met once prior to the fi financial year end.
An internal evaluation by way of questionnaire will be conducted next year and an externally facilitated performance evaluation will be conducted every three years thereafter.
DIRECTORS ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION The directors other than myself and Mr Seamus Keating will all stand for election as it is the fi first AGM since our respective appointments.
In accordance with the recommendation for FTSE 350 companies set out in the Code, Mr Seamus Keating and I will stand for annual re-election as we were appointed in 2013.
All of the Companys directors will stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
The biographical details of the AR current directors can be found on pages 60 to 61.
The terms and conditions of appointment of nonexecutive directors, which includes their expected time commitment, are available for inspection at the Companys registered offi ce.
Signed on behalf of the Nomination Committee Ian Tyler Chairman of the Nomination Committee 25 May 2016 103 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CLINICAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT Edwin Hertzog Chairman of the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee Dear Shareholder, Following the completion of the Combination of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Al Noor and Mediclinic International Limited on 15 February 2016, a Quality Committee was established by the Board, with materially the same terms of reference as the Al Noor Quality Committee prior to the Combination.
The Quality Committee was subsequently renamed to the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee the Committee and its role was expanded to also include the monitoring of the Groups sustainable development and to fulfi l the statutory duties of a social and ethics committee in terms of the SA Companies Act, which role was fulfi lled by the Social and Ethics Committee of Mediclinic International Limited prior to the Combination.
It is my pleasure to report on the activities of the Committee for the reporting period ended 31 March 2016, as further detailed herein.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE The Committee is chaired by Dr Edwin Hertzog and comprises two independent non-executive directors, one non-executive director and one executive director, who are suitably skilled and experienced.
The Chief Clinical Offi cer, Dr Ronnie van der Merwe, and the Group Services Executive who is also responsible for the Groups sustainable development management, Gert Hattingh, are invited on a permanent basis to attend and speak at all Committee meetings.
Other relevant members of management are invited to attend Committee meetings from time to time.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
The composition and attendance of Committee meetings during the period under review are set out in the table on page 105.
AR As referred to on page 64, the Board is considering making further appointments to the Board.
The composition of the Committee will be reviewed thereafter to consider the appointment of a further Committee member with suitable clinical background.
104 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION CLINICAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE NUMBER OF COMMITTEE NUMBER OF COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDED PRIOR MEETINGS ATTENDED 2 NAME ROLE TO COMBINATION AFTER COMBINATION 1 Dr Kassem Alom Non-executive director 3 of 3 n a 1 Ahmad Nimer Non-executive director 3 of 3 n a 1 William J.
Ward Independent non-executive 3 of 3 n a director 1 William S. Ward Independent non-executive 3 of 3 n a director Dr Edwin Hertzog Nonexecutive director n a Committee Chairman Nandi Mandela Independent non-executive n a director Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Offi cer n a Ian Tyler Independent non-executive 3 of 3 director and Senior Independent Director 1 These Committee members served during the year and were appointed in 2013 to the entity when it was known as Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, prior to the Combination.
They retired on the date of completion of the Combination on 15 February 2016.
2 One Committee meeting was held since the Companys financial year end.
SUSTAINABILITY ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES In relation to its sustainability functions, the The responsibilities and functioning of the Committee Committee is responsible for, inter alia: are governed by a formal terms of reference developing and reviewing the Groups policies approved by the Board, which is subject to regular with regard to the commitment, governance and review, but at least annually.
reporting of the Groups sustainable development The Committee is responsible for a promoting a performance, including the Group Sustainable culture of excellence in patient safety, quality of care Development Policy, Group Environmental Policy and patient experience, by inter alia, monitoring the and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which clinical performance of the Group: and b ensuring are available on the Companys website at that the Group is and remain a good and responsible www.
com: corporate citizen by monitoring the sustainable monitoring the sustainable development development performance of the Group.
performance of the Group, with specifi c regard to stakeholder engagement, health and public safety, CLINICAL PERFORMANCE broad-based black economic empowerment in In relation to its clinical performance functions, the South Africa only, labour relations and working Committee is responsible for, inter alia: conditions, training and skills development of monitoring the clinical performance of the Group: our employees, management of the Groups environmental impacts, ethics and compliance and evaluating patient safety, infection prevention and corporate social investment: control performance and quality improvement performance: annually revising, in conjunction with management, the material sustainability issues: evaluating compliance with the Companys patient safety and quality clinical care standards, policies reviewing and approving the annual sustainability and procedure and regulation and accreditation content included in the Annual Report and the standards at the operating platforms: and Sustainable Development Report published on SDR the Companys website: and evaluating the annual Clinical Services Report and other publicly reported clinical content.
determining and making recommendations to the Board on the need for external assurance of the Groups public reporting in sustainable development performance.
105 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CLINICAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT continued As referred to above, certain South African COMMITTEE EVALUATION subsidiaries of the Company are required to Due to the timing of the Combination, a formal appoint a social and ethics committee in terms evaluation of the Committee was not possible this of the SA Companies Act, unless such companies year.
An internal evaluation will be conducted during are subsidiaries of another company that has a the year ahead and annually thereafter.
social and ethics committee, and the social and ethics committee of that company will perform the The Committee is satisfied with the Groups functions required by this regulation on behalf of that performance in each of the areas listed above, as AR subsidiary company.
The Committee also performs further reported on in the Annual Report on pages the statutory functions required of a social and ethics 30 to 33 and 46 to 54, as well as in the Clinical CSR committee in terms of the SA Companies Act.
Services Report and the Sustainable Development Report published on the Companys website.
SDR The Committee is satisfied that the current level of combined assurance provides the necessary Signed on behalf of the Clinical Performance and independent assurance over the quality and reliability Sustainability Committee of the information presented.
The Committee will continue to monitor whether additional forms of assurance are required in future.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING In terms of the SA Companies Act, a social and ethics Edwin Hertzog committee must, through one of its members, report Chairman of the Clinical Performance and to the shareholders at the companys annual general Sustainability Committee meeting on the matters within its mandate.
As the 25 May 2016 Committee is performing the role and function of a social and ethics committee in terms of the SA Companies Act, the Committee will fulfil this function by referring shareholders to this report by the Committee, read with the Sustainable Development SDR Report, at the Companys annual general meeting on 20 July 2016.
Any specific questions to the Committee may be sent to the Company Secretary prior to the meeting.
MAIN ACTIVITIES The Committee, in its current form, has only met once since the Combination and up to the reporting period ended 31 March 2016, at which meeting the main focus was on: refining the Committees terms of reference: reviewing and approving the annual Clinical Services Report and clinical performance CSR information included in the Annual Report: reviewing and approving the annual Sustainable SDR Development Report and the sustainability information included in the Annual Report: confirming the key sustainability priorities AR reported on pages 47 to 54 and the Sustainable Development Report published on the Companys website: and SDR reviewing the Companys first slavery and human trafficking statement in terms of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
