GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION BOARD PROGRAMME The agendas for the Board meetings held since the Combination and prior to the publication of this report are detailed below.
The agendas were shaped to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities in the year ahead.
FEBRUARY APRIL MAY Update on Combination Review of strategic Group goals, objectives Review and approval of fi financial results for and budgets 2016, as well as annual report and fi financial Review of Group policies and procedures statements, notice of annual general Review of fi five-year forecasts Review of Board Committees and meeting, annual clinical services report and their composition Feedback on risk management annual sustainable development report Investor relations update in respect of UK Review of shareholder movements on the Recommendation of fi final dividend and South African shareholders UK and South African shareholder registers payment to shareholders Review of going concern and viability statement Re-appointment of auditor Review of principal risks and uncertainties Regulatory, legal and governance update Review of shareholder movements on the UK and South African shareholder registers In depth clinical governance presentation BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE During the period under review, the directors met face-to-face seven times prior to the Combination, and once subsequent thereto.
The non-executive directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive directors present after each Board meeting.
Since the Combination, the Chairman met three times with the Boards non-executive directors after each of the three Board meetings held, without the executive directors or any executive management team being present.
For attendance of the Board Committee meetings, please refer to the respective Committee reports which follow this section, on pages 82, 101, 105 and 108 respectively.
AR ATTENDANCE OF BOARD MEETINGS NUMBER OF NUMBER OF BOARD MEETINGS BOARD MEETINGS DATE OF DATE OF ATTENDED PRIOR ATTENDED AFTER 4 NAME APPOINTMENT RESIGNATION TO COMBINATION COMBINATION 1 Faisal Belhoul 5 June 2013 21 April 2015 5 of 5 n a Seamus Keating 5 June 2013 7 of 7 1 of 1 1 Sheikh Mansoor Bin Butti Al Hamed 5 June 2013 15 February 2016 0 of 7 n a 1 Mubarak Matar Al Hamiri 5 June 2013 15 February 2016 5 of 7 n a 1 Ahmad Nimer 5 June 2013 15 February 2016 6 of 7 n a Ian Tyler 5 June 2013 7 of 7 1 of 1 1 William J.
Ward 5 June 2013 15 February 2016 7 of 7 n a 1 Dr Kassem Alom 20 June 2013 15 February 2016 7 of 7 n a 1 Khaldoun Haj Hasan 7 November 2013 21 April 2015 5 of 5 n a 1 William S. Ward 7 November 2013 15 February 2016 7 of 7 n a 1 Ronald Lavater 1 October 2014 15 February 2016 7 of 7 n a 2 Jannie Durand 15 February 2016 n a 1 of 1 2 Alan Grieve 15 February 2016 n a 1 of 1 2 Dr Edwin Herzog 15 February 2016 n a 1 of 1 2 Prof Dr Robert Leu 15 February 2016 n a 1 of 1 2 Nandi Mandela 15 February 2016 n a 1 of 1 2 Danie Meintjes 15 February 2016 n a 1 of 1 2 Trevor Petersen 15 February 2016 n a 1 of 1 2 Desmond Smith 15 February 2016 n a 1 of 1 2, 3 Craig Tingle 15 February 2016 n a 1 of 1 1 These directors served during the period under review and were appointed to the entity when it was known as Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, prior to the Combination.
They retired on the date of completion of the Combination on 15 February 2016, unless retired earlier as indicated in the table above.
2 These directors were appointed following completion of the Combination on 15 February 2016, all of whom are previous directors of Mediclinic International Limited.
3 Craig Tingle will retire on 15 June 2016.
His successor, Jurgens Myburgh, will be appointed to the Board with effect from 1 August 2016.
4 Two Board meetings were held since the Companys financial year end.
67 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board has adopted a robust corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities in order to support the Groups strategic direction and continue to facilitate long-term shareholder value.
Subsequent to the Combination, the Board and its Committees paid focus to evaluating and assessing the policies governing the Board and its Committees.
A diagram outlining the governance framework is shown below.
BOARD CEO Responsible for the effective oversight of Responsible for the day-to-day management the Company, agrees to strategic direction of the Group and the implementation of the of the Group, establishes the governance strategies and policies adopted by the Board.
structure of the Group, which help achieve long-term success and value to shareholders and stakeholders.
DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Assesses price-sensitive Assists the CEO in the information and its performance of his duties disclosure.
Reviews the and performs any other release of financial results functions delegated to and trading updates to management by the Board.
AUDIT AND RISK REMUNERATION NOMINATION CLINICAL INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE COMMITTEE AND Oversees internal Determines and Reviews Board's Reviews and SUSTAINABILITY financial reporting, agrees with structure, size, recommends COMMITTEE integrity of financial executive directors' composition and proposed Oversees quality statements and remuneration recommends investments and of patient care internal controls.
and monitors appointments of capital expenditures provided by the remuneration levels new directors.
of the Group which Group's facilities, of senior executives.
exceed set authority and monitors levels.
the sustainable development performance of the Group.
68 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board has established fi five Committees, so that it The Executive Committee is established as a can delegate matters and operate eff ectively giving management committee and not a committee full consideration to some key matters which should of the Board.
It is managed and overseen by the be considered by and dealt with by the Board only.
Group CEO in support of his responsibility for the The full terms of reference of each Committee of overall management of the Companys business.
the Board are available in the corporate governance The committee meets on a regular basis to consider, section of the Companys website at inter alia, investment opportunities, operational www.
Reports on the role, matters and other aspects of strategic importance composition and activities undertaken during the to the Group.
They are continuously in contact with year of the Audit and Risk Committee, Remuneration the Groups management teams of Southern Africa, Committee, Nomination Committee and the Clinical Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates to ensure Performance and Sustainability Committee are eff ective communication, decision-making and detailed on pages 74 to 115.
The terms of reference of the Executive Committee are codifi ed setting out their role and responsibilities, specifi cally with regard to AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE their authority levels, which are reviewed annually by The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in management and communicated to the Board.
The discharging its responsibilities with regard to fi financial biographies of the Executive Committee members reporting, external and internal audits and controls, AR are provided on page 62. including reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups annual and interim fi financial statements.
The current composition of the Executive Committee It also reviews and monitors the Groups relationship is as follows: with its external auditors, reviews the eff ectiveness of the external audit process, and reviews the Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Offi cer and Chairman of eff ectiveness of the Groups internal control review Executive Committee function.
The Committee comprises fi five independent 1 Craig Tingle Chief Financial Offi cer non-executive directors and the Committee has David Hadley Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Middle suffi cient relevant and fi financial experience, in East accordance with the requirements of the Code.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Desmond Smith and Gert Hattingh Group Services Executive more detail on the functioning of the Committee can Dr Dirk le Roux Group ICT Executive be found in the Committee report on pages 107 to 115.
AR Koert Pretorius Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Southern Africa NOMINATION COMMITTEE Dr Ronnie van der Merwe Chief Clinical Offi cer The Nomination Committee assists the Board Dr Ole Wiesinger Chief Executive Offi cer: Hirslanden in discharging its responsibilities relating to the Switzerland composition and make-up of the Board and any committees of the Board.
It is also responsible for periodically reviewing the Boards structure and DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE identifying potential candidates to be appointed as The Disclosure Committee is established as a directors or committee members as the need may management committee, to assist and inform the arise.
The Committee comprises four independent decisions of the Board concerning the identifi cation non-executive directors and two non-executive of price sensitive information and is responsible for directors, and is in full compliance with the Code making recommendations about how and when as the majority of the Committees members are the Company should disclose such information.
The Committee is The Committee comprises two executive directors, chaired by Mr Ian Tyler and more detail on the one independent non-executive director and one functioning of the Committee can be found in the Executive Committee member.
The Disclosure Committee report on pages 100 to 103.
AR Committee is chaired by Mr Ian Tyler.
The membership of the Committee is set out below: Ian Tyler Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Committee Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Offi cer 1 Craig Tingle Chief Financial Offi cer Gert Hattingh Group Services Executive 1 Craig Tingle will retire on 15 June 2016.
69 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DIRECTORATE MATTERS The Remuneration Committee assists the Board APPOINTMENT AND TENURE in determining its responsibilities in relation to All non-executive directors serve on the basis of remuneration, including making recommendations letters of appointment which are available for to the Board on the Companys policy on executive inspection at the Companys registered office.
The Committee is responsible for letters of appointment set out the time commitment establishing the parameters and governance expected of non-executive directors who, on framework of the Groups remuneration policy appointment, undertake that they will have sufficient and determining the individual remuneration time to meet what is required of them.
and benefits package of each of the Companys executive directors and other members of executive The non-executive directors are appointed for a management.
The Committee comprises three term of three years, subject to earlier termination, independent non-executive directors, which is fully including provision for early termination by either compliant with the Code.
The Committee is chaired the Company or the non-executive director on three by Mr Trevor Petersen and more details on the months notice.
In accordance with the Companys functioning of the Committee can be found in the Articles of Association, all directors must retire by AR Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 99. rotation and seek re-election by shareholders every three years.
However, it is intended that the directors CLINICAL PERFORMANCE AND will each retire and submit themselves for re-election by shareholders annually.
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The Board has established a Clinical Performance DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND and Sustainability Committee, which although not a TRAINING requirement of the Code, assists the Board in: The Chairman, with the support of the Company i pr omoting a culture of excellence in patient Secretary, is responsible for the induction of new safety, quality of care and patient experience, by directors and ongoing development of all directors.
inter alia, monitoring the clinical performance of The training needs of the directors are periodically the Group: discussed at Board meetings and briefings are ii ensuring tha t the Group is, and remains, a good arranged on issues relating to corporate governance and responsible corporate citizen by monitoring and other areas of importance.
the sustainable development performance of Following appointment to the Board, directors the Group.
receive a comprehensive induction tailored to their The Committee is chaired by Dr Edwin Hertzog and individual needs and requirements.
The induction comprises two independent non-executive directors, includes face-to-face meetings with executive one non-executive director and one executive management and operational site visits to provide an director.
More detail on the functioning of the understanding of the business, strategy, commercial Committee can be found in its report on pages objectives and key risks.
The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory and governance matters by the Company Secretary INVESTMENT COMMITTEE who prepares papers for Board meetings, and also by presentations from internal and external The Board has established an Investment Committee, advisers.
Additional training is available on request, which is primarily responsible for reviewing and where appropriate, so that Directors can update making recommendations to the Board regarding their skills and knowledge as applicable.
As part proposed investments and capital expenditures of the Combination the directors were provided of the Group that exceed set authority levels.
The with training in respect of their legal, regulatory Committee is chaired by Dr Edwin Hertzog and and governance responsibilities and obligations in meets on an ad hoc basis.
The membership of the accordance with the UK regulatory regime.
Committee is set out below: Dr Edwin Hertzog Non-executive director and Chairman of Committee Jannie Durand Non-executive director Alan Grieve Independent non-executive director Seamus Keating Independent non-executive director Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Officer 1 Craig Tingle Chief Financial Officer 1 Craig Tingle will retire on 15 June 2016.
70 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION externally facilitated performance evaluation will INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL be conducted every three years thereafter.
The SID, ADVICE who is responsible for conducting the performance All directors may seek independent professional appraisal of the Chairman, intends on convening a advice in connection with their roles as directors.
meeting with the non-executive directors, without All directors have access to the advice and services the Chairman being present, by February 2017, which of the Company Secretary.
The Company has will coincide with the annual evaluation of the Board provided for both indemnities and directors offi cers and its Committees.
insurance to the directors in connection with their duties and responsibilities.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with DIRECTOR ELECTION RE-ELECTION the Chairman, the CEO, CFO and SID.
Collectively, Following recommendations from the Nomination they ensure that there is eff ective, regular and clear Committee, the Board considers that all directors communication with shareholders on matters such continue to be eff ective, committed to their roles as governance and strategy.
In addition, they are and have suffi cient time available to perform their responsible for ensuring that the Board understands duties.
As set out in the Nomination Committee the views of shareholders on matters such as AR report on page 103, and in accordance with the Code, governance and strategy.
The Board is supported by all of the directors appointed during the year will the Companys corporate brokers with whom we are be submitting themselves for election at the 2016 in constant dialogue.
It is intended that an investor annual general meeting, this being their fi first annual relations programme be formally established and general meeting since appointment.
Mr Ian Tyler which will include formal meetings with investors and Mr Seamus Keating, who, this being their third to discuss the Groups interim and fi final results.
It is annual general meeting since appointment, will be also intended that, during intervening periods, the submitting themselves for re-election in accordance Company will continue its dialogue with the investor with the Articles of Association, and the Code.
community by meeting key investor representatives and holding investor roadshows.
The directors will DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF also be available at the Companys annual general meeting and look forward to meeting shareholders INTEREST then.
Further details on how the SID engages with In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the shareholders are detailed on page 65.
The Company AR Act and the Companys Articles of Association is in the process of recruiting an investor relations the Articles, the Board may authorise any matter specialist, who will be responsible for leading the that otherwise may involve any of the directors Companys annual investor relations programme breaching his or her duty to avoid confl icts of which will include roadshows.
The Board has adopted a procedure to address these requirements, which includes the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM directors completing detailed confl ict of interest questionnaires on appointment.
The matters The Companys fi first AGM since the Combination disclosed in the questionnaires are reviewed by will take place at 15:00 UK time on 20 July 2016 the Board following the directors appointment and at the Rosewood London Hotel, 252 High Holborn, annually thereafter and, if considered appropriate, London, WC1V 7EN, United Kingdom.
All ordinary authorised in accordance with the Act and shareholders have the opportunity to attend and the Articles.
vote, in person or by proxy.
The Notice of AGM, can be found on the investor relations section of Confl icts of interest as well as any gifts and the Companys website www.
com, and hospitality received by and provided by directors are is being posted in a separate booklet at the same kept under review by the Board.
The Notice of AGM sets out the business of the meeting and provides explanatory BOARD, COMMITTEE AND notes on all resolutions.
Separate resolutions are INDIVIDUAL DIRECTOR EVALUATION proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
The AGM is the Companys principal forum for The Board intends to undertake an internal communication with private shareholders.
The performance evaluation in order to address Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the performance and eff ectiveness of it and its the Board Committees, together with senior Committees.
Due to the timing of the Combination, management will be available to answer an evaluation of the Board, its Committees and shareholders questions at the AGM.
individual directors was not undertaken during the year as the reconstituted Board and Committees had either only met once or not at all prior to the fi financial year end.
An internal evaluation by way of questionnaire will be conducted next year and an 71 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Compliance with all relevant laws, regulations, ACCOUNTABILITY accepted standards or codes is integral to the INTERNAL CONTROLS AND Group's risk management process and is monitored.
PROCEDURES The Groups governance structure of risk The Group has in place a comprehensive system management is illustrated below.
of internal controls, designed to ensure that risks GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF RISK MANAGEMENT are mitigated and that the Group's objectives are attained.
The Board recognises its responsibilities to present a fair, balanced and understandable Board of Responsible for our system assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Directors of corporate governance, It is accountable for reviewing and approving the strategy, risk management and financial performance effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management.
The Audit Responsible for reviewing Board also recognises its responsibility in respect of and Risk and approving the adequacy the Groups risk management process and system Committee and effectiveness of our risk of internal control, and, oversees the activities of management and internal the Group's external auditors and the Group's risk controls management function which have been delegated to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Corporate Supports the CEO in Executive managing our business and The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board Team activities in keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems, reviewing and approving the internal Operating Responsible for identifying, controls and risk management disclosures made platforms assessing, implementing and by the Group and matters relating to compliance, managing risks within their whistleblowing and fraud.
The Board has a process in businesses place which, with assistance from the Audit and Risk Committee, includes the review of internal controls ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE systems and risk management arrangements.
This follows the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance Conducting business in an honest, fair and legal on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related manner is a fundamental guiding principle in Financial and Business Reporting.
A review of Mediclinic, which is actively endorsed by the Board the Groups risk management approach is further and management, ensuring that the highest ethical AR discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 24 to standards are maintained in all our dealings with 29.
For detail on the management and mitigation of stakeholders.
The Groups commitment to ethical each principal risk see pages 24 to 26.
The Groups standards is set out in the Groups values, and is viability statement is detailed on page 29 of the supported by the Companys Code of Business Strategic Report.
Please also refer to pages 107 to Conduct and Ethics the Ethics Code which is 115, for further detail in relation to the Audit and Risk available on the website at www.
The Code provides a framework of the standards of business conduct and ethics that are required of all The Companys Enterprise-Wide Risk Management business divisions, directors and employees within Policy is benchmarked against the international the Group in order to promote and enforce ethical Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the business practices and standards throughout the Treadway Commission framework, which defines Group.
The Code is available to all staff and also the risk management objectives, methodology, communicated to new employees as part of the process and the responsibilities of the various on-boarding process.
risk management role-players for the Group.
The objective of risk management within the Group is to establish an integrated and effective risk management framework where important risks are identified, quantified and managed in order to achieve an optimal risk reward profile.
The use of an integrated approach ensures that risk management is incorporated into daily operational management processes and therefore allows management to focus on core activities.
AR 72 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Accountability for monitoring Responsibility for implementing GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING INFORMATION SECURITY AND The Board has considered the Modern Slavery Act CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2015, which aims to address slavery, servitude, forced Information security policies and controls are in or compulsory labour and human traffi cking: and place throughout the Group regulating, inter alia, the introduced a new disclosure obligation requiring processing, use and protection of own and thirdthe Company to publish a slavery and human party information.
There were no substantiated traffi cking statement for each fi financial year of the complaints regarding a breach of customer privacy Company reporting on the steps the Group has taken or loss of customer data against the Group during during the fi financial year to ensure that slavery and the reporting period.
human traffi cking is not taking place.
A link to the Companys slavery and human traffi cking statement COMPLIANCE can be found on the home page of the Companys Compliance with all relevant laws, regulations, website at www.
accepted standards or codes is integral to the Groups risk management process and is monitored.
FRAUD AND CORRUPTION As in previous years, there were no incidents of The Group adopts a no-tolerance policy with regard material non-compliance with any laws, regulations, to unethical business conduct, in particular also fraud accepted standards or codes applicable to the and corruption, which is addressed in the Ethics Group or fi fines against the Group during the Code and the Companys Anti-bribery Policy.
policies relating to any invitations, gifts or donations received from suppliers or any other party, in terms of which personnel are compelled to declare these to The Corporate Governance Statement, comprising management for approval, apply throughout the Group.
pages 64 to 73 was approved by the Board on AR The Audit and Risk Committee assesses incidents of 25 May 2016 and signed on its behalf by: attempted fraud or corruption throughout the Group at each committee meeting.
Depending on the nature of an incident, the incident is investigated either by contracted forensic investigators or by internal audit or by management.
These investigations will determine the nature of the corrective action taken, Edwin Hertzog which may include formal criminal action against the Non-executive Chairman perpetrator and or disciplinary action or possible dismissal in case of employee involvement as well as a review of the controls of the aff ected business process area.
No new material incidents of fraud or corruption were reported throughout the Group during the reporting period.
COMPETITION LAWS The Group supports and adheres to the relevant competition and anti-trust laws applicable in the various countries in which the Group operates.
These laws are complex and the Group has therefore issued guidelines to its employees on competition law compliance within their relevant jurisdiction, which are reviewed and updated at least annually.
The South African Competition Commission is currently undertaking a market inquiry into the private healthcare sector in South Africa.
Mediclinic is participating in the inquiry, with the assistance of expert competition attorneys and advocates who guide Mediclinic through the process.
No legal action for anti-competitive, anti-trust or similar conduct was instituted against the Group during the reporting period.
73 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT LETTER FROM THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, In February 2016, the Combination of Mediclinic International Limited and Al Noor Hospitals Group plc by way of a reverse takeover of Mediclinic International Limited was completed, resulting in the continued listing of the enlarged Company, renamed to Mediclinic International plc, on the LSE and the secondary listing of the Company on the JSE and NSX the Combination.
Shortly before the Combination of the businesses, a new Directors' Remuneration Policy was put to shareholders, which was intended to serve the needs of the combined Group, recognising the structures and governance expected of a FTSE-100 listed company.
This policy remains in place and the Remuneration Committee considers it fit for purpose.
No changes are therefore proposed to the policy, which is presented for information in the first half of this report.
The second half of this report contains information on payments and awards made, and cover the 15-month period up to 31 March 2016 for the Company.
In addition, pro forma information relating to Mediclinic International Limited has been included in a separate section at the end.
Comment on the overall performance in the year and resulting variable pay awards are dealt with extensively in the Remuneration Policy document that follows.
The Combination triggered the vesting of ANHG's long-term incentives LTI and the way in which these were treated including the performance against targets is reported below.
Vesting in respect of the Mediclinic's incentives was also accelerated with performance being tested on 30 September 2015 as reported herein.
The vesting date of the incentive remains unchanged subject to service conditions being met.
A special bonus was also awarded to the CEO of Al Noor in connection with the transaction and the details of this are set out herein.
Following the Combination, we announced that our CFO, Craig Tingle, was to retire in June 2016.
The Committee has yet to make a final determination on how the outstanding awards held by Craig Tingle will be treated, and will announce this at the time and in next year's Remuneration Report.
Shortly before the production of this report, we announced that Jurgens Myburgh would replace Mr Tingle.
Details of his remuneration are set out in the section dealing with the coming year.
Remuneration for 2016 In reviewing remuneration for executive directors for 2016, the Committee has adopted the following structure: The base compensation for the executive directors has been reviewed against the market for UK-listed company executives operating in similar international companies.
As a result, we have decided to make an exceptional and significant increase in base compensation levels.
The structure and quantum of the annual bonus for the executive directors is set in line with market practice, with performance measures selected to drive alignment with shareholders interests.
Deferral of half of annual bonus into equity is now required, with shares held for three years.
Performance shares will be granted annually under LTI, with vesting after three years based on earnings per share EPS growth and relative total shareholder return TSR conditions, which we believe provide strong alignment between the executives and shareholders.
This alignment is further strengthened by share ownership guidelines.
The Committee believes these structures are appropriate for the Company and are in the best interests of shareholders.
We look forward to your support for the Remuneration Report.
Trevor D Petersen Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 May 2016 74 74 MEDICLINIC ANNU MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 2016 16 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION The approach to disclosure in this Remuneration Benefi ts and Previously ANHG had no GroupReport is to show results for the period pension wide pension scheme, but did allow for an end-of-service gratuity as 1 January 2015 to 31 March 2016 for the entity required by UAE Labour Law.
"The Mediclinic International plc ""MIP"", including new policy allows for a defi ned the period it was formerly known as Al Noor pension contribution scheme, under Hospitals Group plc ""ANHG""."
ANHG became which whereby directors can receive a Company contribution up to 10% known as MIP from 15 February 2016 as a result of salary.
Some changes were made to the Additionally, appended are the remuneration benefi ts provided under the policy.
"Previously the ANHG policy allowed of the former directors of Mediclinic International for private medical insurance, use Limited ""MIL"" who are now directors of MIP for of a company car and driver, car the period 1 April 2015 to 15 February 2016 for insurance, private fuel card, airfare the entity MIL together with results for the period tickets and housing and utility expenses."
See policy table 15 February 2016 to 31 March 2016 for MIP to on pages 76 to 78 for benefi ts AR show a 12-month pro forma period for MIL and provided for under the new policy.
Service contracts The executive directors' notice periods may be up to 12 months previously no more than DIRECTORS REMUNERATION six months.
POLICY At the ANHG general meeting held in The changes made to the policy provide increased December 2015, 98.6% of shareholders approved fl exibility in a number of areas: however, in general a revised Remuneration Policy.
The policy was the Committee has not sought to use this fl exibility developed taking into account the principles of the in practice, as will be seen from the proposed UK Corporate Governance Code and takes account remuneration for 2016 17. of the views of major shareholders and proxy agencies, as expressed during previous engagement POLICY OVERVIEW on remuneration matters.
The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the There is no requirement to hold a vote on the policy Board, for establishing appropriate remuneration in 2016, since no changes are proposed to that arrangements for the executive directors and other previously approved.
The policy is set out below for senior management in the Group.
The remuneration scenarios on In setting the Remuneration Policy for the executive AR page 79 have been updated, as have details of the directors, the Committee will ensure that the executives' service contracts.
structures are in the best interest of both the Group and its shareholders, by taking into account the POLICY CHANGES APPROVED IN following general principles: DECEMBER 2015 COMPARED TO THE To lead our chosen markets in medical quality ANHG 2014 APPROVED POLICY by attracting, retaining and motivating the best person for each position, without paying more Annual short-term The portion of the STI which is than is necessary.
incentive STI deferred is at the discretion of To ensure total remuneration packages are simple the Committee previously 50% was specifi ed.
and fair in design so that they are valued by participants.
Long-term incentive Flexibility was introduced to vary To ensure that the fi xed element of remuneration plan LTIP the weightings of the EPS and TSR is determined in line with local market rates, taking components previously the policy account of individual performance, responsibilities specifi ed 50% of the awards to be subject to EPS and 50% subject to and experience: and that a signifi cant proportion TSR.
The new policy allows for the of the total remuneration package is linked to introduction of a broader range of fi financial rewards.
companies in the TSR comparator group s. Weighting of EPS and TSR To balance performance pay between the measures has not been specifi ed achievement of fi financial performance objectives previously the policy allowed only and delivering sustainable stock market outfor 50% of the awards to be subject performance: creating a clear line of sight to EPS and 50% subject to TSR.
The new policy allows for more between performance and reward and providing fl exibility with regards to the TSR a focus on sustained improvements in profi tability comparator groups.
To provide a signifi cant proportion of performancelinked pay in shares allowing senior management to build shareholding in the business and therefore, aligning management with shareholders interests and the Group's performance, without encouraging excessive risk taking.
75 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT continued CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
The Committee considers the annual general meeting to be an opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, giving investors the opportunity to raise any issues or concerns they may have.
In addition, the Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any material changes be made to the Directors' Remuneration Policy.
SUMMARY OF THE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY The following table sets out the key aspects of the Directors' Remuneration Policy.
ELEMENT PURPOSE OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE OF PAY AND LINK TO CRITERIA OPPORTUNITY STRATEGY To attract, retain Reviewed annually There is no Not applicable BASE 1 and motivate by the Committee prescribed maximum COMPENSATION talented or, if appropriate, annual increase.
individuals who in the event of The Committee are critical to the a change in an takes into account Group's success individual's position remuneration levels or responsibilities in comparable organisations in Base compensation the geographies in levels set to reflect which the Company the experience and operates and in capabilities of the which it competes for individual as well as talent.
It is guided by the scope and scale the increase for the of the role workforce generally.
Increases to base On occasion, it compensation may may also recognise reflect individual other factors performance as such as additional well as the pay and responsibility, or an conditions in increase in the scale the workforce or scope of the role 3 To encourage Performance targets Maximum At least 75% of the ANNUAL STI and reward are reviewed annually opportunity of STI will be based delivery of the by the Committee 150% of base on Group financial 2 Group's annual and are set to ensure compensation performance financial and they are linked to Performance below operational strategic objectives threshold results objectives and are appropriately in zero payment.
demanding, taking To encourage Payments increase into account share ownership from 0% to 100% economic conditions and provide of the maximum and risk factors further opportunity for levels alignment with A portion of the of performance shareholders bonus paid the between threshold amount at the and maximum discretion of the performance targets Committee may be deferred in shares, which are released ratably over two years, subject to continued employment Dividends that accrue on the deferred shares during the vesting period may be paid in cash or shares at the time of vesting 2 Clawback provisions will apply for overpayments due to misstatement or error and other circumstances in respect of future bonus payments and also apply to previous payments made under the ANHG bonus scheme 76 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
