Governance Corporate Governance Report The Board, supported by its Committees and the Senior Management team, have in place a governance and control environment which they believe is appropriate for the NMC Group and which they believe are consistent with the standards which would be expected of a FTSE 250 Company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
INTRODUCTION The Board is responsible for, and committed to, ensuring that procedures are in place so that good standards of corporate governance are operated at all levels in the Group in accordance with the guidance and principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website, frc.
The Board, supported by its Committees and the Senior Management team, have in place a governance and control environment which they believe is appropriate for the NMC Group and which they believe are consistent with the standards which would be expected of a FTSE 250 Company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
The Board ensures that governance processes are documented and implemented and, where appropriate, continue to be improved.
The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance against the provisions of the Code and believes that, with the exception of provision E. 2.4 in relation to the notice given at less than 14 working days for the General Meetings held on 29 December 2016, the Company was compliant with the provisions of the Code for the 2016 Financial Year.
The Board felt it necessary to give less than 14 working days notice for the General Meeting in relation to the acquisition of Al Zahra Hospital, given the deadlines for this transaction set in negotiations between the parties.
The second General Meeting to approve the Companys New Directors Remuneration Policy was held on the same day for the convenience of shareholders wishing to attend the Meetings.
This Governance section describes how the Board has applied Corporate Governance principles during the 2016 financial year.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Company operates within a traditional governance framework CHAIRMAN Board Executive Vice Chairman & Group Company Board Senior Independent CEO and senior management Secretary Committees Non-Executive Director Clinical Governance Nominations Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee The roles and responsibilities of each of the individuals and groups above, and their role in the overall governance framework, are set out below.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued THE BOARD THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and: for the long term success of the Company ensuring that it meets its responsibilities towards all stakeholders: demonstrating leadership and focussing on matters that affect shareholder value: determining the strategic direction of the Group: and for ensuring the effectiveness of, and reporting on, the risks facing the Group and the systems of governance and internal control in place in the Group.
The Board seeks at all times to ensure that there is an appropriate balance between short term and long term considerations and objectives of the Group.
The Board has the powers and duties as set out in the Companys Articles of Association and the relevant regulations applicable to the Company as a public listed company registered in England and Wales.
As part of the terms of their appointment, each director agreed that they will act collectively with the rest of the Board to ensure the success of the Group.
The Company has agreed a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board including: approval of strategic plans: approval of major capital projects, acquisitions and divestments: approval of long term financing plans: setting the annual budget: risk management and internal control systems and processes to ensure that the Group is managed appropriately: and approving the half-year and annual results and financial statements.
Specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees, details of which are set out on pages 43 to 50 or to the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO who is responsible for delivering the Companys strategic objectives.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE The Board of the Company currently comprises eleven directors, all of whom have served throughout the year: the Non-Executive Chairman who is considered to be Independent two Executive Directors five Independent Non-Executive Directors three Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors In addition, Heather Lawrence was an Independent Non-Executive Director until 12 January 2016.
The biographies of each of the Directors are set out on pages 38 and 39.
1.1 of the Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor in determining the independence of non-executive directors.
The table below therefore shows how long each Director considered by the Board to be Independent Non-Executive Directors have been members of the Board.
Date of appointment Term in office to 2017 AGM years H J Mark Tompkins 7 March 2012 5 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 26 June 2014 3 Jonathan Bomford 27 June 2013 4 Lord Clanwilliam 7 March 2012 5 Salma Hareb 26 June 2014 3 Dr Nandini Tandon 26 June 2014 3 The other five Directors are either Executive Directors or connected to, or representing, the Companys principal shareholders, and are therefore not independent.
The Board considers that it is independent.
The Senior Independent Director is Jonathan Bomford, who is available to shareholders should they have any concerns that they do not wish to raise with the Company or the Chairman directly.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted through the UK corporate office, and registered office, of the Company.
36 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance BOARD DIVERSITY The Board considers that the extensive and diverse business, cultural and operational experience of all the Directors, both Independent and non-Independent, ensures a good balance in all aspects of Group decision making and control.
The above attributes also enable the Board to take account of diverse and independent judgement to bear on key issues of: strategy, including constructively challenging the strategic direction of the Group: the consideration of acquisition proposals and long term financing of the Groups growth strategy: scrutinising and challenging the performance of the Group: assessing risk and controls operating within the Group and in its decision making: and standards of conduct and governance and other matters presented to the Board.
Similar practices to ensure a diverse employee base are also operated within the Groups businesses.
The principles of employee diversity in the Group are summarised in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
Therefore the Board is structured to ensure that: an appropriate cultural and ethnic mix is in place considering the Companys listing in the UK and its diversified operations, the vast majority of which are in the UAE, as well as global drivers and practice in healthcare related services: the conclusions of the Davis Report on Women on Boards, and in particular the benefits of significant male and female representation on the Board, are taken into account: and the individual skills and experience that Directors bring to the Board are well balanced.
The Board will continue to consider appropriate skills, gender and cultural balance when reviewing future Board appointments.
Board diversity and composition as at the date of this report is as follows: Executive Non-Executive Gender of Board Executives 18% Male 73% Non-Exectuives 82% Female 27% Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Nationality 3 years 67% UAE 18% Kenyan 9% 4 years 11% UK 27% USA 9% 5 years 22% Indian 37% NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Governance Board of Directors MR H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS 76 DR B. R. SHETTY 74 MR PRASANTH MANGHAT 42 Non-Executive Chairman 3 Executive Vice-Chairman & Chief Deputy Chief Executive Officer Executive Officer Nationality: British Nationality: Indian Tenure: 5 years Nationality: Indian Tenure: 3 years Tenure: 6 years Relevant Experience: Relevant Experience: Significant public company Relevant Experience: 20 years experience in accounting, experience on UK, US and French Business Entrepreneur corporate finance, treasury and listed company Boards Founder, Director and principal banking, including 12 years in NMC Experience in investment banking, shareholder of NMC Health related businesses international real estate and the Pioneer in the development of the Chief Financial Officer of NMC Health financing of small and medium private healthcare sector in the UAE 2011-2014 sized enterprises Other Board positions and material Spearheaded NMCs successful Director and Chairman of Allied investments in financial, hospitality, IPO on the London Stock Exchange Healthcare International food and beverage, pharmaceuticals in April 2012 Non-Executive Director and Conseiller and real estate sectors Chartered Accountant Special aupres du Conseil DAdministration of Sodexo S. A. DR AYESHA ABDULLAH 50 MR ABDULRAHMAN BASADDIQ 68 MR JONATHAN BOMFORD 68 Independent Non-Executive Director 1 2 Non-Executive Director 3 4 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 1 4 Nationality: Emirati Nationality: Kenyan Tenure: 3 years Tenure: 3 years Nationality: British Tenure: 4 years Relevant Experience: Relevant Experience: Significant experience in development Significant business experience across Relevant Experience: and regulation of the healthcare a number of GCC based Groups Accounting, financial and audit industry in the UAE operating in multiple jurisdictions and experience gained principally in Oversaw development of, and then business sectors, including two major the Middle East and East Africa regulatory aspects of, Dubai Healthcare listed Groups Previously with EY Middle East, East City DHCC Previously 25 years with EY in the UK Africa, Abu Dhabi & Riyadh for 24 years Previously, CEO of Dubai Healthcare and GCC, including 15 years as an 15 years as a partner City DHCC equity partner EY clients included international clients Currently Executive Dean of Health Currently Non-Executive Director of across healthcare, oil, banking and Sciences and Business at Higher Abu Dhabi National Hotel Group, construction sectors College of Technology Dubai Travelex and UAE Exchange Currently Non-Executive Director UK qualified Chartered Accountant and of Travelex licensed auditor in the UAE UK qualified Chartered Accountant 38 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance LORD CLANWILLIAM 56 MRS SALMA ALI SAID BIN HAREB MR KEYUR NAGORI 38 Independent Non-Executive Director 4 ALMHEIRI 51 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director 4 Nationality: British Nationality: Indian Tenure: 5 years Nationality: Emirati Tenure: 3 years Tenure: 3 years Relevant Experience: Relevant Experience: Government and financial Relevant Experience: 10 years of experience in international communications specialist Significant business experience and audit firms including Deloitte Extensive network of governmental a recognised leading businesswoman and KPMG and institutional contacts across in the Middle East Audit of multinational companies Middle East, UK and Eastern Europe CEO of Economic Zones World EZW based in both India and Abu Dhabi Founding Partner and Chairman of and Jebel Ali Free Zone Jafza from 10 years experience at KBBO Group Meade Hall Communications Limited 2005 to 2015 Chairman of Eurasia Drilling Company Instrumental in creation of Dubai 2007 to 2016 Logistics Corridor and oversaw EZWs expansion with development of international logistics parks in UAE, Europe, India, USA and Africa MR BINAY SHETTY 33 DR NANDINI TANDON 54 Key to committees Non-Executive Director 2 Independent Non-Executive Director 1 2 1 Audit Committee 2 Clinical Governance Nationality: Indian Nationality: USA 3 Nominations Tenure: 3 years Tenure: 3 years 4 Remuneration Note: Full biographies can be viewed on Relevant Experience: Relevant Experience: the Companys Investor Relations website Operations and strategic experience Investment and Board experience in at www.
com within a number of organisations healthcare and healthcare IT sectors 2010 to 2014 Chief Operating Officer, Director and investment in numerous NMC Group high tech companies in the USA 2004 to 2010 Executive Director of NMC Delegate and speaker on a number responsible for strategic planning of high level global investment and Director of UAE Exchange and governmental and investor summits Travelex and Head of Shetty Family and programs Investment office Board of Trustees, Bay Area Council Economic Institute, Board Member, SF-Bangalore Sister City Initiative and TeleVital Real Time Telemedicine NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Governance Senior Management Team The Senior Management Team Consists of: DR B. R. SHETTY MR PRASANTH MANGHAT DR CHANDRAKUMARI R. SHETTY Executive Vice-Chairman & Chief Deputy Chief Executive Officer Group Medical Director Executive Officer Relevant Experience: Relevant Experience: Relevant Experience: 20 years experience in accounting, Over 40 years experience with NMC Business Entrepreneur corporate finance, treasury and Health and a pioneer in developing the Founder, Director and principal banking, including 12 years in NMC private healthcare sector in the UAE shareholder of NMC Health related businesses Instrumental in establishing Centres Pioneer in the development of the Chief Financial Officer of NMC Health of Excellence in various NMC facilities private healthcare sector in the UAE 2011-2014 Chairs a number of NMC business Other Board positions and material Spearheaded NMCs successful IPO committees covering Governance, investments in financial, hospitality, on the London Stock Exchange in Infection Control, Patient Rights, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals April 2012 Quality and Facility Management and real estate sectors Chartered Accountant Supervises NMC Healthcares diversified multi-cultural workforce.
ROY CHERRY SURESH KRISHNAMOORTHY SIMON WATKINS Head of Strategy & Investor Relations Chief Financial Officer Group Company Secretary Relevant Experience: Relevant Experience: Relevant Experience: 13 years experience in financial Appointed as CFO in January 2015 and Joined NMC in May 2012 shortly after services and healthcare heads up NMCs finance teams the Groups IPO Assists Executive Vice Chairman Joined NMC in December 2000 and Responsible for Groups listing and CEO and Deputy CEO in relation held a number of senior finance roles obligations and all governance to NMC strategic matters in the Group matters, assisting the Chairman with Leads Groups IR and played an Has had significant involvement in ensuring effective and appropriate instrumental role in the re-rating the Companys IPO in April 2012 and Board processes of NMCs shares subsequent fund raising initiatives Over 25 years of experience as Formerly a Senior Consultant at PwC Prior to joining NMC, worked as a Company Secretary in large and Transaction Services providing advice Assistant Finance Manager in Kerala medium sized UK public companies on transactions across several sectors Industrial Infrastructure Corporation across a number of sectors including healthcare in India Significant experience within Contributed to several regional Qualified as a Chartered Accountant Groups focussed on strategic IPOs including Saudi Catering, NMC in India in 1998 and acquisitive growth Health, Deyaar, DP World and Royal Previous experience includes Deputy Jordanian Airlines Company Secretary of Rank Group plc Previously headed the Equity Research and Group Company Secretary of Departments at SHUAA Capital in Dubai lastminute.
com and Saudi Fransi Capital in Riyadh Qualified as a Chartered Secretary Holds a BSc in Management from in the UK in 1987.
University of London and speaks English, Arabic and Swedish fluently 40 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
CHAIRMAN The Chairman was appointed to the Board in March 2012 in anticipation of the Companys IPO.
He was independent at the time of his appointment and is considered to be independent by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the proper functioning of the Companys Board of directors including: the effective operation and governance of the Board setting the agenda and coordinating the style and tone of Board discussions EXECUTIVE VICE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is responsible for identifying, with the Senior Management Team, opportunities that are deemed appropriate and in line with the Boards strategic objectives.
He is also responsible for delivering the key strategic objectives set by the Board.
The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is assisted in this task by the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the remainder of the Senior Management Team who meet regularly to discuss the performance of the business, the progress of key capital projects, new development opportunities as well as other material matters arising within the business.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors as required.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not managed to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors, or who feel that such contact is inappropriate for the concerns that they may have.
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the Board Committees.
He assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and in organising induction programmes for new Directors.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The biography of each individual holding the above positions is set out on pages 38 to 40.
BOARD MEETINGS The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in finalising an agenda for each Board meeting and ensuring that appropriate papers are provided from the management team in a timely manner for circulation in advance of Board and Board Committee meetings.
This is to ensure that fully informed decisions can be reached.
BOARD FOCUS IN 2016 Matters considered at all Board Meetings include: Operational and financial performance through management reports Potential acquisition or organic growth opportunities being considered in pursuance of the Groups growth strategy Other development opportunities Board Committee updates Risk and risk management During the course of the 2016 financial year the Board has also considered, as appropriate: The Groups strategy with significant focus on potential organic and inorganic growth opportunities and the associated risks of such strategy and opportunities Long term acquisition and working capital financing The key economic conditions and drivers and competitive environment in each of the Groups primary markets The Groups half-year and full-year results The proposed operating budget for the following financial year BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE IN THE 2016 FINANCIAL YEAR During the period under review, the Board met, as scheduled, on six occasions as scheduled as well as other ad-hoc meetings normally called at very short notice on specific matters requiring board approval or consideration.
During 2016, the majority of such ad-hoc meetings were in relation to acquisitions or long term finance related discussions and approvals.
Scheduled periodic Board Meetings are planned in each financial year to be split, where possible, evenly between London and Abu Dhabi.
The attendance of the Directors at each of the scheduled Board meetings during the period is set out in the table below.
Whilst the ad-hoc meetings held are classified as formal meetings, given their brief nature and the fact that they were called at very short notice, the attendance table excludes such meetings.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD MEETINGS CONTINUED BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE IN THE 2016 FINANCIAL YEAR CONTINUED Board meeting attendance 2016 Scheduled Attended H. J.
Mark Tompkins 6 6 Dr B. R. Shetty 5 6 Prasanth Manghat 6 6 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 6 6 Abdulrahman Basaddiq 6 6 Jonathan Bomford 6 6 Lord Clanwilliam 6 6 Salma Hareb 6 6 Keyur Nagori 6 6 Binay Shetty 6 6 Dr Nandini Tandon 6 6 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS DIRECTOR INDUCTION On appointment, directors have the benefit of a personalised induction programme which is undertaken during the first few months of their tenure as a director.
Each induction programme covers a number of different areas including: briefings and presentations from management to understand the business operations and financial drivers their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors and the governance environment in which the Company operates opportunities to visit the Groups key facilities and new capital development project locations meetings with the Companys key advisors BOARD INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Directors maintain an appropriate dialogue amongst themselves and with senior management, which ensures that NonExecutive Directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
Following an initial induction process, Non-Executive Directors meet with management and undertake visits to operational facilities as required in order to further understand the way the business operates and any change within the business.
The Board had presentations from management during the year in relation to the Groups material acquisitions and financing arrangements, as well as market conditions drivers within the Groups key markets.
As part of their overall training and development needs, some non-executive directors have attended externally provided seminars and discussion forums relating to their general responsibilities as Directors or areas of specific responsibility, in particular in relation to the Board Committees on which they serve.
Such development opportunities are made available to all Directors on an ongoing basis.
During the year, the Board approved the implementation of a new electronic Board Meeting system.
In addition to the benefits of reducing paper waste, the Board believes that distribution of papers utilising a specific Board pack system will ease communication and distribution of Board information, making the Board process more efficient, and also increase security, given that paper copies of board papers are being phased out.
42 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year the Board undertook an evaluation of its own performance.
This was undertaken by way of a questionnaire developed internally by the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary which asked Directors to assess the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the Board and Board committee processes.
The questionnaire included questions in relation to the suitability of the Boards discussions and whether the Directors felt able to be candid or raise matters of concern.
The evaluation questionnaire was completed confidentially by Directors and the results consolidated into a report by the Group Company Secretary which was then reviewed by the Chairman and reported to the Board.
No material action items arose from the review.
The Boards intention is to undertake such a Board evaluation each year and to conduct an externally facilitated performance appraisal every three years in compliance with the Code, with the first external appraisal being conducted during the 2017 financial year.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All of the directors of the Company submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 23 May 2017.
Each resolution for re-election or election of a retiring director will be proposed as a separate resolution.
The Board performance appraisal undertaken during the year has satisfied the Board that the contribution made by each director, and the Board as a whole, to board deliberations continues to be effective and that the shareholders of the Company should support their re-election.
OTHER BOARD DISCLOSURES CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board are aware of the interest that some Directors have in other businesses in which they have invested.
Any conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise are monitored by: A list of other relevant interests of each Director being circulated to the Board at each of its Board Meetings: Each of the Directors are asked to confirm that they have no other interests which would conflict them for the purposes of any item to be discussed at the meeting: where such conflict is reported, the respective Director is not permitted to take part in the consideration of that matter by the Board: Each Director discloses to the Board any related party transactions in which they are connected, and such transactions are reported in the Groups financial statements.
Whilst Directors on the Board have other business interests, the Board do not consider that these, nor the time commitment that they require, affect the ability of such Directors to undertake their role or comply with their statutory obligations.
INDEPENDENT ADVICE Each of the directors is permitted to obtain independent legal advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
This would normally be managed through the Group Company Secretary.
All directors, and the Board as a whole, also have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who, under the Chairmans direction, is responsible for ensuring that good Board procedures are followed.
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS The Company has put in place a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy which provides all Board members with insurance cover in respect of liabilities that may arise against the Directors collectively or individually.
The Directors do not benefit from any form of qualifying third party indemnities made by the Company.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Clinical Governance Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference for each committee clearly set out its authority and duties and have been approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each committee are available on our website at www.
com or available from the Group Company Secretary.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee OVERVIEW PROVIDED BY THE CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The 2016 financial year continued in a similar vein to prior years and has been another busy year for the Audit Committee.
As UK listed company reporting and governance requirements continue to evolve, and as the Group grows, both management and the audit committee have been committed to appropriate focus on finance, governance and controls across the Group.
This report sets out the work of the Committee, significant matters addressed by the Committee during the year and the responsibilities of, and work undertaken by, the external and internal auditors.
In addition, the Board asks the Audit Committee to review various matters in relation to risk and internal control which, during a year of significant strategic activity and integration, is a significant aspect of the Board and Audit Committee focus.
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The Audit Committee has consisted entirely of independent non-executive directors during the year under review.
During the 2016 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year: Chairman: Committee members: Jonathan Bomford Dr Ayesha Abdullah Dr Nandini Tandon During the 2016 financial year, the Chairman of the Committee and the Committees financial expert was Mr Jonathan Bomford.
Mr Bomford is a Chartered Accountant and his brief biographical details and experience are set out on page 38 of the annual report.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
The Meetings are scheduled to align with the Groups reporting timetable with planning meetings in advance of both the half-year review and full-year audit, and approving meetings shortly in advance of the announcement of the Groups half-year and full-year results.
Audit Committee attendance Scheduled Attended Jonathan Bomford 4 4 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 4 4 Dr Nandini Tandon 4 4 Meetings are normally attended by the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman and some other Non-Executive Directors also attend meetings.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee also has the opportunity to meet separately with the external auditors and management with the other parties not present.
KEY ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The key role of the Committee is to ensure that the integrity of published financial information by the Company, and the effectiveness of both external and internal audit processes, are appropriate to ensure that the interests of all shareholders are protected.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in: discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audits and controls: reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, Annual Report and audited financial statements: monitoring the independence and extent of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of external auditors and the level of their remuneration: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit activities and internal policies: overseeing the Groups compliance processes: and oversight of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems although the Board retains control over these matters.
Consideration of principal risks and the risk management process in place across the Group is a matter retained for discussion and review by the Board.
The Audit Committee is required to report regularly to the Board of Directors in relation to its findings on the above and the discussions at each meeting.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Companys Annual Report and audited financial statements and the half yearly reports remains with the Directors of the Company.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR During the year, the Committee has focussed significantly on areas relating to acquisition accounting.
In addition to the main activities on which the Committee focusses each year, being the Committees consideration, and approval, of the Interim Results and the Annual Report, specific items which the Audit Committee discussed, and the significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements, during the year included: 44 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance ACCOUNTING FOR MAJOR TRANSACTIONS.
There are a number of aspects in relation to the Groups acquisition strategy which had an impact on accounting and audit matters during 2016.
These included accounting in relation to various aspects of each acquisition, including accounting for goodwill, judgements in respect of contingent consideration, and specifically work on the purchase price allocation for each transaction, including the identification of intangible assets, assessing the accounting policies within each business for consistency with NMC accounting policies and also evaluating the internal control environment in the acquired businesses.
These and related matters took up significant audit committee time during the year.
ACCOUNTING FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS During the year, the Company opened a significant proportion of its largest capital project to date, NMC Royal Hospital Khalifa City, with the commencement of inpatient services.
The accounting relating to this event, including the treatment of expenses and capital costs, as well as reviewing the useful life of hospital assets, was reviewed by the committee.
THE INTERNAL AUDIT PROGRAM Principal Internal Audit Reports are presented at Committee meetings twice a year with other updates from the Internal Auditors as required.
During 2016, in addition to ongoing work, the Internal Audit program has focussed on the acquired entities.
Both management and the Committee have been keen during this period of strategic growth, to assess in detail and review the internal control measures operating in the acquired businesses and to enhance such controls and processes as necessary.
In addition, discussion focussed on rolling out the Internal Audit program to the IVF businesses, and an independent firm, Deloitte, were chosen to provide these services, which commenced during the year.
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE INTERNAL CONTROL The Committee has reviewed the process by which the Group evaluates its control environment across all of its businesses.
The Chief Financial Officer provides a report to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal controls and confirms to the Committee whether or not he is aware of any significant fraud that may have occurred within the business.
The internal auditors also undertake a review across a wide range of control areas to give the Audit Committee and the Board assurance on the internal control environment.
The internal control environment and internal audit processes within the acquired entities have been scrutinized by group management and the internal auditors.
Where there is an identified need to enhance internal controls within these businesses to bring them into line with Group standards and processes, an action plan has been developed and the Audit Committee is receiving reports from the internal auditors as to the progress of implementation of such actions.
IT The Audit Committee, with the Board, continues to monitor the implementation of new financial systems, the challenges in this respect over the last two years and monitor and consider any effect that implementation delays may have on the control environment.
OTHER Other matters discussed and considered by the Committee during the year included setting expectations with the new audit partner, consideration of the review of the effectiveness of the internal control environment across the Group, reviewing the Going Concern and Long Term Viability assessments prepared by management and review the Groups financial statements in advance of the Board, including whether they consider the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee also has significant engagement with the external auditor at each meeting.
EXTERNAL AUDIT AND AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE EXTERNAL AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS The Committee believes that the effectiveness of the external audit is dependent on the identification and consideration of key risks by the Committee, management and, as part of their audit process, by the auditors during the financial year under review.
EY produces and discusses with the Committee a detailed audit plan identifying these key risks, the focus of audit procedures and the work to be done to test managements assumptions and accounting treatment in these areas.
The Committee has the option to meet separately with the External Auditors to ensure that an independent dialogue is maintained in relation to monitoring key business and financial risks and to ensure that management have not restricted the scope of their audit.
The Audit Committee Chairman also meets with the lead audit partner on a number of occasions during the year outside the formality of Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee did not commission an independent review of the effectiveness of the external audit during the year.
However, by the Committee, management and, as part of their audit process, by the auditors.
AUDITOR FEES AND APPOINTMENT EY were appointed as auditor to the Company at the time of the Companys IPO in April 2012.
The level of audit fees paid in relation to the 2016 financial year is set out in note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee continued EXTERNAL AUDIT AND AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE CONTINUED NON-AUDIT FEES During FY2016, the level of non-audit fees amounted to a total of US$2.16m, including fees of US$198.0k in relation to the half year review.
The remaining non-audit fees of US$1.96m related predominantly to fees as reporting accounting and associated services relating to the Companys acquisition of Al Zahra Hospital, approved by shareholders in December 2016.
The Audit Committee currently complies with regulations adopted by the FRC in their implementation of an EU directive in relation to non-audit fees.
The Company is in the process of reviewing its non-audit services policy and plans to adopt a new policy during the 2017 financial year.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE The Audit Committee formally reviewed the independence of the Companys auditor, EY, during the period under review.
The review took account of the relationship between management and the audit team, the processes that EY have in place internally to ensure objectivity and independence and also the level of non-audit fees incurred during the year.
As part of this review the Committee reviewed the potential threats to auditor independence as a result of: auditor self-interests, being those areas where the auditor may have a financial or other interest in the Company: auditor self-review, being areas where the results of non-audit services are reflected in the amounts included or disclosed in the financial statements: management threats, which may occur if partners or employees of the auditor take decision on behalf of management: and other threats, such as familiarity and intimidation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that in all areas sufficient safeguards were adopted by the auditor and that the independence of EY and of the audit engagement partner had not been compromised.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of the Auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements.
AUDIT RE-TENDER POLICY In accordance with the requirements set out in the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order, the Audit Committee have considered its approach to audit tendering and have determined that: it currently intends to undertake a competitive tender process in relation to statutory audit services provided to the Group in 2020 with the chosen statutory auditor being appointed for the FY2021 audit: and this approach is considered appropriate on the basis that partner rotation was undertaken by the Groups current auditors, EY, during the 2016 financial year which, in the Committees view, introduced an independent review of the Group audit strategy and process.
However, between now and the planned competitive tender date during which the Group is expected to grow substantially through execution of its organic and acquisitive growth strategy leading to transformational changes in the size and complexity of the NMC Group, the Audit Committee is conscious of the need to keep the provision of audit services under continual review for the benefit of both the Group and its Shareholders.
The Audit Committee has therefore not ruled out that an earlier tender process may be appropriate.
JONATHAN BOMFORD, FCA On behalf of the Audit Committee 46 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Clinical Governance Committee OVERVIEW PROVIDED BY THE CHAIR OF THE CLINICAL GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE This my second report to you as Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee.
The Clinical Governance Committee meets regularly to provide Board oversight in the key area of Clinical Governance.
The Committee works with management to ensure that the governance structure within the healthcare business is appropriate to ensure that clinical care is enhanced and that clinical quality indicators are monitored and maintained at a high standard.
This oversight is designed to mitigate as far as possible the risks associated with operating a healthcare organisation.
In line with the experience of management, the Board and its other committees, a time of significant growth in the healthcare business is both exciting and challenging from a quality and clinical governance perspective.
Good progress has again been made during a very busy year with the majority of key clinical care indicators remaining at a strong level or improving.
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The Committee consists of a majority of Non-Executive Directors plus Dr C R Shetty, the Group Medical Director.
Her experience of governance structures operating in the Group, and the standards by which the Healthcare businesses are monitored, is very important to the Committees ongoing monitoring of clinical care.
During the 2016 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year: Chairman: Committee members: Dr Ayesha Abdullah Binay Shetty Dr C. R. Shetty Dr Nandini Tandon The Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee is also a member of the Audit Committee which assists in ensuring that the two committees interact providing an overall control and governance framework to manage the Groups key clinical risks.
Meetings of the Committee have been scheduled three times on each of the previous financial years, but given increasing demands on the Committee, this will increase to four meetings in 2017.
In addition to the Clinical Governance Committee members, the Vice President Quality and Standards attends each meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Clinical Governance Committee attendance Scheduled Attended Dr Ayesha Abdullah 3 3 Dr C R Shetty 3 3 Binay Shetty 3 3 Dr Nandini Tandon 3 3 KEY ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The establishment of the Clinical Governance Committee was undertaken as a result of an appreciation of the clinical risks faced by the Group.
The key role of the Committee is to oversee governance structures, processes and controls in relation to Clinical matters in place within the Group healthcare operations.
This is to ensure that the risks associated with clinical care are mitigated in the interests of the Company and its stakeholders, including shareholders.
As a result the Committee is a key aspect of the Groups internal control environment.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Specific responsibilities of the Committee, and work undertaken by it during the year, include: Ensuring processes and controls are in place across the NMC Healthcare hospitals to promote safety and excellence in patient care and manage risks arising from clinical care on a continuing basis, including a review of Code Blue procedures in place in the Group: Review the systems of clinical governance, monitoring that they operate effectively and that action is being taken to address any areas of concern: Review clinical performance indicators quarterly: Reviewing the implications of new regulations and standards compliance implemented by our local health authority regulators: Commencement of reporting from the Groups acquired businesses: Reviewing patient satisfaction data across all facilities: Review of surgical procedures to ensure these are in line with regional and international norms: Discussion in relation to the use and benefits IT systems for all aspects of patient care and information monitoring.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Clinical Governance Committee continued PRINCIPAL MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES ON CLINICAL GOVERNANCE MATTERS DURING THE YEAR 2016 has been a very busy year for management in relation to quality and clinical governance matters.
In addition to ongoing quality monitoring, Abu Dhabi Specialty Hospital completed its triennial JCI re-accreditation during the year with excellent results.
Both NMC General Hospital, DIP and Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital were surveyed and accredited by JCI during 2016, extending the reach of external monitoring and accreditation for the Groups facilities.
In addition, preparatory work has already commenced in advance of proposed surveys to seek JCI accreditation for our largest facility, NMC Royal Hospital Khalifa City, in 2017.
In addition, the committee has received reports from, and started to monitor standards in, the acquired businesses, including IVF facilities.
Reports received from the acquired businesses show how important quality metrics are considered across those businesses.
The Committee is delighted with the dedication and determination of management, and all of our employees, to keep up to date with regulatory changes and new standards, ensuring that the Group is well positioned in its compliance with its requirements as well as offering an excellent and safe service to our patients.
The Quality and Clinical teams also continue their excellent work ensuring that clinical care monitoring within the business, including the acquired businesses, has been further enhanced during the year, which gives assurance to management and the Board that clinical risk is mitigated.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their contribution during the year.
DR AYESHA ABDULLAH For and on behalf of the Clinical Governance Committee 48 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Remuneration Committee MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The Remuneration Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, three of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, with an Independent Non-Executive Director holding the chairmanship of the Committee.
During the 2016 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year: Chairman: Committee members: Lord Clanwilliam Abdulrahman Basaddiq Jonathan Bomford Salma Hareb The Chairman of the Company is invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings.
The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer do attend some Remuneration Committee meetings and the Chairman of the Committee discusses proposed remuneration policies with them during their formulation.
No Director is present when their own remuneration is discussed.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee and, along with the Committees independent advisors, provides advice to the Committee on Corporate Governance aspects relating to remuneration matters.
He also provides assistance to the Chairman of the Committee as required in discussions with the Remuneration Committee advisers and on implementation of Committee decisions.
The Group Company Secretary is not present when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee met five times during the financial year.
Remuneration Committee attendance Scheduled Attended Lord Clanwilliam 5 5 Abdulrahman Basaddiq 5 5 Jonathan Bomford 5 5 Salma Hareb 5 5 KEY ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in: making recommendations to the Board on the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, the framework of executive remuneration, including the use of incentive arrangements within that framework: and determining, on the Boards behalf, the entire individual remuneration packages for each Executive Director and advising the Chief Executive Officer in relation to the level of remuneration the Committee feel is appropriate for the Senior Management Team.
All other recommendations must be referred to the Board for approval.
No Committee member is permitted to participate in any discussion or decision regarding his her own remuneration.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter for consideration by the Executive Directors, in discussion with the Chairman of the Company.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR The principal activities of the Committee during 2016 and the Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Remuneration Report, are set out in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 56 to 78.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom holds the chairmanship of the Committee.
During the 2016 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year: Chairman: Committee members: H. J.
Mark Tompkins Abdulrahman Basaddiq Lord Clanwilliam The Nominations Committee has a role to assist the Board in: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to its structure, size and composition: reviewing succession planning in place for senior management: determining the appropriate skills and characteristics required of directors: identifying individuals qualified to become Board members and recommending such individuals to the Board: recommending individuals to be considered for election as Directors at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or to fill vacancies: and preparing a description of the experience and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment.
Following the significant changes to the Board and work undertaken on the Senior Management Team structure and succession plan over the prior two years, and the fact that no material concerns arose from the Board appraisal undertaken in 2015, the Committee did not meet during the year.
However, committee members held a number of informal discussions during the year on matters of interest to the role of the Committee.
The Committee would expect to meet to consider appropriate candidates to fill any vacancy created on the Board should such a vacancy arise or be considered appropriate given other skills and experience on the Board.
The approach of the Committee, and of the Board, to the issue of diversity is set out in this Governance section on pages 35 to 80.
50 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK OVERVIEW Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and operational matters across the Group.
The Board is responsible for reviewing such internal controls and for ensuring that they are effective to properly manage the Groups businesses.
STRENGTHENING OF INTERNAL CONTROLS In recent years, as the Group has progressed an organic and inorganic growth strategy, in order to strengthen the governance and control structure further across the Group, management have progressively been: incorporating additional key internal controls into its financial and operational processes: implementing new policies and procedures covering all aspects of the Groups accounting policies and controls: extending its Quality Team and the Groups Quality and Clinical Governance processes: enhancing the Groups Internal Audit function which independently reviews and monitors key business processes: and developing new financial and hospital management IT systems.
All of these changes are part of an overall process to improve the Governance structure within the Group and to improve further the Groups formal internal control processes.
CHALLENGES New businesses The businesses which have been acquired over the last two years, all operated under differing levels of control.
Similar to the NMC Group prior to preparation for its IPO in 2012, some of these businesses have a very centralised approach to control, with the majority of the controls over all financial and operational aspects of each business resting with a small number of individuals and, in some of the businesses, being manual in nature.
We consider this to be a normal environment in which smaller privately owned businesses are used to operating.
In addition, the program to open new facilities since the Companys IPO has resulted in a significant level of growth in the Group.
This increases further the challenge on the Company in relation to controls and risk.
Integration Such transformational changes in the Group over the last 4 years inevitably results in different control environments operating across group businesses.
Measured integration, at a pace which is appropriate to each individual new business, and integration of those businesses, is undertaken to align control processes.
IT environment Management recognise that the Groups IT systems are not fully integrated and that an element of manual control procedures are still prevalent across the Group.
The growth of the Group, organically and through acquisition, together with significant regulatory changes in UAE healthcare businesses over the last 2 years, have hampered focussed efforts to develop integrated group IT systems.
Whilst this is still the case, the manual processes, supported by legacy IT systems in many of the Groups businesses, continues to provide a robust level of control.
PRINCIPAL RISKS A new approach to the monitoring and control of risks within the Group has now been operating for two years.
The various layers of corporate, healthcare and distribution division management were involved in a program under which the Groups key risks were developed through a bottom up process and then reviewed alongside the macro-economic environment within which the Group operates through a top down review process to establish a Strategic Risk Register.
In Q1, 2016, assisted by an independent review of the Strategic Risk Register, when the Board undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This Strategic Risk Register is reviewed and updated regularly.
A review in August 2016 led to a number of changes to the Strategic Risk Register including recognising the risks of integration and consolidation of group businesses during significant growth periods and also the effects of material regulatory or cultural changes in elements of healthcare provision.
Further details on the approach taken to assess risks, and of the Groups strategic risks, are set out on pages 30 to 33.
The boards appetite for risk, the internal controls and processes in place to mitigate business risks and the Boards review of the effectiveness of the control environment are set out below.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK CONTINUED CONTROLS AND RISK MITIGATION Financial and operational controls The Group has, for over 40 years, grown into a substantial business and a leader in the provision of private healthcare, as well as operating a substantial distribution business, in the United Arab Emirates.
The Group is a regulated business operating many regulatory, financial, clinical and quality control procedures.
In the past two years, the Group has expanded operations to a number of countries in Europe, South America and the GCC.
During this period of growth, the Group looks to integrate and structure financial and operational controls across all of its businesses.
The key elements of the Groups internal controls are as follows: An annual budget and updated long-term forecasts for the Group that identifies risks and opportunities which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
As part of these reviews, management and the Board have processes in place to consider appropriate risks faced by the Group and also a formal review which considers the Group long term viability.
As part of the annual budget process, budgetary goals are set by the corporate office and these goals are monitored on an ongoing basis within each subsidiary by their accounting and finance teams.
MIS teams monitor business performance.
Within each subsidiary, these teams provide relevant analyses to operational management which assists in prudent decision making.
Such information is also periodically reported to, and consolidated by, the corporate office teams, which analyses consolidated performance against budget.
Monthly meetings at which the Senior Management Team review Group financial and operational performance, progress on capital projects and other principal functional areas of the business.
A system of internal monthly operational and financial reporting which includes monthly comparison of results and against budget and forecast, a review of KPIs, each discussed with additional management commentary and the reporting of key matters arising within the business during the month under review.
The Group has a very flat organisational hierarchy resulting in an easy flow of information throughout the organisational structure.
Communication of exceptional items happens naturally.
A defined process for controlling capital expenditure, including appropriate authorisation levels, which is monitored and approved by the Board as appropriate.
The financial statements of each subsidiary are drawn up by relevant accounting departments, which ensure compliance with local tax and regulatory requirements.
These subsidiary company financial statements are subjected to a limited review for the Groups interim financial statements and a complete audit carried out by the auditors of significant subsidiaries for the Groups year-end financial statements.
Reporting of accounting information, in standardised monthly reports, is carried out on the basis of a schedule established by the Corporate Accounts department.
Each subsidiary applies Group procedures for the recording of accounting data for inclusion in the interim and annual financial statements.
The reporting of subsidiaries is established according to the accounting policies of the Group, which are formalized in a Group policies manual given to all the subsidiaries.
A formal process through which approval for organic and inorganic expansion projects is given.
A formal transaction request paper is produced including details of the proposed transaction, how the transaction will be financed, market studies, strategic benefits and longer term effects on the Group, due diligence and key transaction risks are considered.
Medical Directors meetings to monitor clinical governance procedures.
The production of quarterly and annual Quality reports.
An appropriate approach to decentralisation and internal oversight within the Group.
Each NMC healthcare facility has a Medical Director and Head of Administration who are accountable for the operation of the facility.
In relation to facilities in other Group businesses, or other business streams created as part of the Groups growth strategy, these are generally either smaller facilities and therefore managed by the lead clinician, or larger businesses having their own management structure.
Therefore both our larger and smaller facilities have an appropriate organisation to provide effective and efficient management of both clinical and non-clinical areas.
Within the Healthcare division structure, a number of multidisciplinary committees are in place to monitor guidelines in respect of patient safety and quality, medication management, infection prevention and control, medical record documentation and facility management.
Both Healthcare and Distribution divisions have Financial Controllers and a finance team and are managed through fundamental activities of planning, executing and checking.
The strategic direction of all operations is governed by the corporate office.
With the exception of certain operations in some of the acquired businesses, which are in the process of being integrated into group procedures, all banking, treasury, procurement and payment processing is centralised within Group functions, but accounting for payments is decentralised.
The Senior Management Team believes that these divisions of responsibility at both facility and corporate levels provide a natural check and balance across all internal control areas.
A delegation of authority which provides that very few individuals within the organisation have significant payment approval authority.
Access to cash is also restricted to very few individuals.
All material payments, including within the acquired businesses, are restricted to the senior management team.
Group businesses hold very sensitive as well as personal information and data as part of their operations.
To guard against the material risk of a cyber threat, the Group businesses having varying controls and procedures in place to control such threats and monitors developments in this area closely and makes adjustments and improvements in security as necessary.
Specifically in relation to acquired businesses, initial primary controls are implemented following completion of each transaction.
The Groups policies and procedures, covering both operational and financial aspects of each business, are incorporated into each acquired business over an appropriate timeframe.
52 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Independent and regulatory controls As a regulated business, the Group operates within a framework of managing all elements of risk which arise within the Group.
As a result there are a number of ways in which the Company both internally and independently monitors its keys risks.
Internal Audit An effective externally provided Internal Audit program independently assists management in identifying key risks to business operations and monitors those risks through an Internal Audit program agreed with both management and the Audit Committee.
The Internal Auditors report directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee but work in conjunction with the CFO.
Their reports to the Audit Committee are received and discussed at Audit Committee meetings twice a year, usually in June and December.
Following the completion of each review, the internal auditors identify areas for remedial action and the required action plans are discussed and agreed with management.
All areas requiring remedial action are highlighted as high, medium or low risk areas.
The internal auditors present the reviews and the agreed management action plans for any remedies to the Audit Committee and then monitor the implementation of any required changes on behalf of the Audit Committee.
The consideration by management of the key risks faced by the Group is crucial to the work to be undertaken by the Internal Auditors.
Management consider such risks before discussing with the internal auditors their planned areas of focus for reviews in each financial year.
The Internal Audit plan for each year is agreed with the Audit Committee.
Crowe Horwath have provided internal audit services to the Group for a number of years.
Their program has been extended to, and indeed focussed on, the acquired businesses in the non-IVF sectors of the Group.
Deloitte were appointed in 2016 to provide internal audit services in relation to the Groups IVF businesses.
They have commenced work within these facilities and will undertake a full internal audit program in 2017.
The internal audit services provided by external firms focus on key strategic areas of risk and this program works alongside operational internal audit functions in place within Group businesses.
Quality and Regulatory oversight Aside of financial risks, the Board is aware that as a significant healthcare and distribution business it is subject to a range of risks related to clinical care, quality and product safety.
The Healthcare division, and elements of the Distribution division, are regulated by governmental and non-governmental organisations.
In summary: Each UAE Healthcare facility is licensed by one of four regulatory bodies which exist in the UAE.
The regulatory bodies monitor performance and clinical procedures against its regulations, key metrics and guidelines: Clinica Eugin is subject to local regulatory standards and laws applicable in each jurisdiction in which they operate: Each of the Groups three Specialty Hospitals, as well as Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital, NMC Hospital DIP, the Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in Umm al Quwain which is managed by the Group, and the clinical laboratory of Dr Sunny Medical Centres are accredited by Joint Commission International, an internationally renowned organisation monitoring clinical metrics and quality of patient care: The distribution of pharmaceuticals is controlled through the UAE Ministry of Health: The majority of the Groups healthcare revenue results from medical insurance arrangements.
The Groups contractual arrangements with insurance providers include the monitoring of claims processing and clinical outcomes.
The Group has a Quality Team which operates in both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions.
Quarterly and annual Quality reports monitor performance against a range of key KPIs based on clinical quality and safety metrics.
Board Committees The Board and its committees provide independent oversight of managements control systems, in particular the Audit Committee in relation to finance related matters and the Clinical Governance Committee in relation to clinical matters.
The work and oversight of the board committees is set out on pages 43 to 50.
RISK APPETITE As there are multiple risks associated with the healthcare and distribution sectors, the process of risk management is an essential mechanism to enable risk based decision making process.
The Board recognizes that complete risk control avoidance is impossible, but that risks can be reduced by putting the right controls and mitigations in place as well as agreeing on a threshold for risk taking risk appetite.
Risk appetite provides a structure within which opportunities can be pursued by setting out which, why and how much risk the Group is willing to take.
The Senior Management Team has approved a set of risk appetite statements covering different views on the risk landscape surrounding NMCs business environment whilst addressing various risk classes.
For each risk class, Key Risk Indicators KRIs were articulated to alert against unacceptable loss events.
The purpose of setting limits and triggers is to avoid concentrations of risk which would be out of line with internal or external expectations and to: keep business activities aligned to the strategic goals of the Group: ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the underlying risk and reward: ensure risk-taking is supported by appropriate expertise and capabilities.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK CONTINUED RISK APPETITE CONTINUED General Risk Appetite Statement The Company will not accept any risks that would cause losses due to: malpractice, significant decline in patient satisfaction rate, brand damages, hospital acquired infections, decrease in the utilization rate for outpatient clinics, uncontrolled discharge for inpatients, downtime of life saving sustaining systems, inaccuracy of patients records, non-compliance with internal and or external controls and standards regulatory bodies, sensitive information patient record confidentiality breach loss, loss of sole distribution partnership agreement, loss of key staff key specialities, acquisitions, which are expected to be accretive and not dilutive.
NMC Board of Directors has approved a set of thresholds presented by management which relate to multiple business dimensions in the Healthcare and Distribution divisions to protect shareholders value.
Any areas falling short of the agreed indicators will be highlighted by management for action.
Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has been engaged in the process of ensuring that management have established continuous processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
These processes include the reporting from the finance department on Group performance, the work of the internal auditors and issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of these systems and for conducting a formal annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
A system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls in place during the year, the Audit Committee considered, amongst other matters, manual controls in place, the independence of the separate operating units, the delegation of authority, the balance of centralised and decentralised systems and the reporting process in relation to exceptional items.
The Audit Committee has noted that the Group does not operate under a fully integrated high end IT environment and therefore an element of manual intervention is prevalent within the Group, including the businesses acquired in the last two financial years.
The Board has approved the implementation of a new Hospital Information System which, together with the implementation of the new ERP financial system, will result in a new integrated IT system becoming fully functional across the Group.
The Board notes that the implementation of new IT systems will not change the level of controls inherent in the business, but they will remove elements of manual intervention from financial and operational processes.
Management have taken time to ensure that all previous business processes are captured within the new IT systems.
The roll out of the new ERP system into the Healthcare division, whilst delayed during the initial execution of the Groups strategic growth plan due to the challenges faced by the group in the initial testing phase, and as a result of significant regulatory changes over the last two years, remains underway and a focus across the Group.
In addition to the growing nature and structure of the Group, there have also been challenges in relation to the roll out of the ERP system into the Distribution division, and this has also been delayed.
The Audit Committee have also noted the challenges faced as the acquired businesses are integrated into the Group.
Such acquired businesses have differing levels of controls within their businesses.
The Audit Committee have noted the initial primary and delegated authority controls which are put in place in the acquired businesses following completion as well as the roll out of financial and operational reporting requirements.
The Committee has noted that some elements of the Groups policies and procedures have also been implemented in these businesses over a timescale appropriate to each acquired business, and this will continue into 2017.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the 2016 financial year, in light of the key elements of the Groups internal controls outlined above.
Given the additional internal controls that have been incorporated into the Groups financial and operational reporting process, such that sufficient internal controls were in place to monitor the Groups key risks, the Board believes, having evaluated the effectiveness of the internal controls and procedures, that these were effective during the period covered by this report.
The Board also believes that the process undertaken by the Board and its Committees to monitor the internal control environment, accords with the guidance provided in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
54 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Company is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders and to be available to meet with shareholders who require additional explanation of any matter which is of concern to them.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are also available, either through contacting the Company Secretary or at the Companys General Meetings, to discuss any matters within their areas of responsibility or where individuals do not feel it is possible to discuss these matters with management.
During 2016, the Company has continued to focus on its formal program of investor interaction including one-to-one meetings with institutional investors and attendance at investor conferences.
Mr Roy Cherry, who is the Head of Strategy & Investor Relations and a member of the Senior Management Team, leads these efforts.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2016, the Company issued its 2015 audited results and its 2016 half year unaudited results.
In addition, given the significant strategic activities during the year, the Company kept shareholders updated regularly with regards to its long term financing and its material acquisitions, and the effect that these have on the Group.
Aside from direct shareholder meetings, the principal ongoing communication with shareholders will be through the publication of the Companys Annual report and audited financial statements and Interim Results as well as the opportunity to question the Board and Committees at General Meetings.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend General Meetings and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
The Company has an investor relations section on its corporate website, www.
This has been updated regularly with information that the Company considers relevant to its investors.
Additionally, the number of analysts monitoring the Company and issuing notes in relation to their forecasts and expectations for the group continues to increase.
ETHICS WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY A confidential whistleblowing procedure is in operation to allow employees to raise concerns of possible improprieties in relation to either operational or financial conduct.
BRIBERY ACT 2010 The Group has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which applies to all directors and employees of all Group Companies.
The Policy, which has been communicated to all employees, includes clear statements setting out the Groups Anti-Bribery measures and Anti-Corruption culture.
Practical guidance has been issued in relation to specific circumstances considered to be most relevant to Group employees.
These include guidance notes for clinical staff attending pharmaceutical and training and development conferences in relation to entertainment and other possible inducements, as well as guidance notes in relation to the receipt of free products and equipment and how such products and incentives may affect clinical judgement.
Specific guidance has also been provided in relation to the provision of sales incentives to senior sales and marketing staff within our Distribution division.
Employees have been provided with a copy of these policies and are aware of the significance of them.
New employees receive training on all company policies and procedures as part of their induction program.
A copy of the policies is included on the Companys employee intranet.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 35 to 55 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS Chairman NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55
