Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Report Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith plans.
He also leads the programme of Compliance with the UK completed nine years on the Board communication with shareholders.
Corporate Governance Code in May 2016.
At the request of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors Directors, Ruby agreed to continue to During the year ended 31 December are equal members of the Board and serve on the Board as a Non-Executive 2016 and to the date of this document, have collective responsibility for Board Director and consequently stood for the Company has complied with the decisions.
The Non-Executive Directors re-election at the 2016 Annual General provisions of the UK Corporate bring a wealth of skills and experience to Meeting, where she was reappointed.
the Board and its Committees.
Ruby ceased to be a member of the The Code is publicly available on the Audit and Remuneration Committees The Board has a formal schedule of FRC website www.
In this with effect from 23 May 2016 and stood matters reserved for its decision which Corporate Governance section, together down as Senior Independent Director on includes: with the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 9 June 2016.
The Board determined that 36, the Directors Remuneration Report Group strategy and corporate Ruby remained independent for these on pages 53 to 72 and the Directors objectives: few days, during which no matters arose Report on pages 73 to 75, we describe Determining the nature and extent which required the attention of the Senior how we have applied the main principles of the significant risks the Board Independent Director.
is willing to take in achieving appointment will cease on 23 May 2017 the strategic objectives of the and will not be renewed for a further The Board and its operation Company: period.
Major changes to the nature, scope The Board of PageGroup plc is the body There is a clear division of responsibilities or scale of the business of the responsible for the overall conduct of the between the role of the Chairman and Group: Groups business and has the powers that of the Chief Executive Officer.
While and duties set out in relevant laws of Corporate governance matters: the Board is collectively responsible England and Wales and in its Articles of Approval of Nomination Committee for the success of the Company, the Association.
recommendations on the Chairman manages the Board to ensure appointment and removal of The Boards role is to provide that the Company has appropriate Directors and succession planning: entrepreneurial leadership of the Group objectives and an effective strategy.
He within a framework of prudent and ensures that there is a Chief Executive Changes to the Groups capital effective controls which enables risk to Officer with a team to implement the structure and approval of any be assessed and managed.
The Board is strategy and that there are procedures in business plan prior to a new entity collectively responsible to the Companys place to inform the Board of performance being established in a new territory: shareholders for the success of the against objectives.
The Chairman also Financial reporting, audit and tax Company.
The Board is satisfied that it ensures that the Company is operating matters: has met the Codes requirements for its in accordance with the principles of Material contracts and transactions effective operation.
The Chairmans not in the ordinary course of other significant commitments are business: noted on page 38.
The Board considers Composition of the Board Material capital expenditure that these are not a constraint on the As at the end of the year under review projects: Chairmans agreed time commitment to the Board comprised the Chairman, the Company.
Approval of the annual budget: the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Obtaining major finance: and Patrick fide Smedt was appointed as the Financial Officer and five Non-Executive Senior Independent Director on 9 June Directors.
The biographies of each of Communications with stakeholders 2016 and acts as an alternative channel these Directors can be found on pages and complying with regulatory of communication for shareholders.
also acts as a sounding board for the Michelle Healy was appointed a NonChairman and serves as an intermediary Induction, training and Executive Director of the Company on for other Directors.
All other Directors information Steve Ingham, the Chief Executive served throughout the year.
The Board The Chairman is responsible for the Officer, has overall responsibility for the considers that during the year under induction of new directors and is day-to-day management of the Groups review, and in the case of Michelle Healy assisted by the Company Secretary.
He develops the vision from her date of appointment onwards, On appointment to the Board, each and strategy for the Boards review, each of Simon Boddie, Patrick fide Smedt Director discusses with the Chairman implements the Boards approved and Danuta Gray were independent.
and the Company Secretary the extent strategy and chairs the Executive In addition, the Board determined that of the training required.
A tailored Committee known within the Group as David Lowden was independent at the induction programme to cover their the Executive Board which executes time of his appointment as Chairman.
individual requirements is then compiled.
the delivery of the annual operating Elements of the programme typically PageGroup Annual Report 2016 42 Corporate Governance Report consist of meetings with senior executives, Details of the composition and activities Asia Pacific and Latin America, Middle East site visits, attending internal conferences of each Committee can be found in the and Africa.
Each regional board usually and consultant shadowing to understand respective reports of each Committee: meets at least four times a year.
the day-to-day activities of a recruitment Audit Committee Report on pages 48 and consultant.
In addition, information is 49: the Nomination Committee Report on Board and Committee provided on the Companys services, page 46: and the Directors Remuneration Attendance Group structure, Board arrangements, Report on page 60.
The table below sets out the number of financial and environmental, social and Each Committee has clear terms of meetings of the Board held during the governance information, major competitors reference, copies of which can be year and individual attendance by the and major risks.
found on the Companys website Directors at these meetings, demonstrating Directors update and refresh their www.
Each Committee also commitment to their role as Directors of knowledge and familiarity with the Group reviews its effectiveness and makes the Company.
Attendance by the relevant through site visits, participation at meetings recommendations to the Board of any members of each Committee can be found with and receiving presentations from appropriate changes as and when on page 48 Audit Committee, page 46 senior management.
This is in addition required.
The Chairman of each of the Nomination Committee and page 60 to the access that every Director has to Board Committees will be available to Remuneration Committee.
The Board the Company Secretary.
The Company answer shareholders questions at the met eight times during the year.
During Secretary is responsible to the Board forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the year under review the Non-Executive for ensuring that Board procedures are Directors met on several occasions without The Company Secretary acts as secretary complied with as well as advising the the Executive Directors being present.
The to each of these Committees and minutes Board on new legislation and corporate Non-Executive Directors also met without of meetings are circulated to all Committee governance matters.
Board Committees the presence of the Chairman.
members and to all members of the Board and Directors are also given access to unless it would be inappropriate to do so.
independent professional advice at the Succession Planning Groups expense if the Directors deem it The Group also has an Executive Board Executive development and succession necessary in order for them to carry out which is chaired by the Chief Executive planning discussions are held each their responsibilities.
It comprises the Chief Financial year.
These discussions focus on the Officer and other senior executives, For each Board and Committee meeting development and succession of the biographies for whom can be found on Directors receive a pack of relevant Executive Directors, Executive Board page 41.
The Executive Board usually information on the matters to be discussed.
members and other senior managers in the meets four times a year and is responsible The Board uses a third party board Group with the aim of ensuring that existing for assisting the Chief Executive Officer portal to distribute information quickly senior executives are being developed in the performance of his duties.
The Chief Executive Officer and that there is a pipeline of talented These include the development and presents a comprehensive update on senior individuals within the business.
implementation of strategy, operational the business issues across the Group Development and succession planning is a plans, policies, procedures and budgets.
to the Board and the Chief Financial critical part of the Chief Executive Officers These activities are performed at a regional Officer presents a detailed analysis of the performance objectives for annual bonus level by regional boards for each of the UK financial performance.
The Board also and long-term remuneration.
and North America, Continental Europe, receives at each Board Meeting an Investor Relations Report, including any feedback from investors and Investor Roadshows.
Regional Managing Directors and other Director No.
of meetings senior managers also attend relevant parts Held Attended of Board meetings and the Board Strategy David Lowden 8 8 Day in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
Simon Boddie 8 8 Patrick fide Smedt 8 8 Board Committees Danuta Gray 8 8 The Board has three principal Board Committees, each of which regularly 1 Michelle Healy 8 1 reports to the Board: the Audit Committee, Steve Ingham 8 8 Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The Audit and Remuneration 2 Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith 8 6 Committees are comprised solely of Kelvin Stagg 8 8 independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is comprised Notes: of all Non-Executive Directors and is 1.
Michelle Healy was appointed as a Director of the Company on 10 October 2016 so was eligible to attend only one Board meeting.
chaired by the Chairman of the Board 2.
Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith was unable to attend the Board meetings held in August and December due to who was independent on appointment.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 43 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In addition, the Nomination Committee Chairman.
Interviews were conducted Focus on overseeing the also considers the breadth and depth with members of the Board by two development of the senior of experience of the Non-Executive representatives from Lintstock to leadership team, with the support of Directors and considers on a regular expand upon the issues raised in the the new Group HR Director basis succession planning for the Board questionnaires, with anonymity of all It is envisaged that the Board review as a whole.
Information on the Boards respondents being ensured throughout exercise next year will follow up on the policy on diversity both at Board level the process in order to promote the themes from the 2016 review, to ensure and the Group as a whole can be found open and frank exchange of views.
that year-on-year progress is measured.
in the Nomination Committee Report on Lintstock subsequently produced a page 46 and the Strategic Report on report covering the following areas of Re-election of Directors page 20. review: The Companys Articles of Association The composition of the Board Performance Evaluation provide that each Director must retire and whether changes could from office every three years.
The Code In line with the Code, each year the be considered to the profile goes beyond this, requiring all Directors Board undertakes a formal and rigorous of the Board in the context of to retire and stand for re-election at each evaluation of its own performance, that PageGroups strategic goals.
The Company of its Committees and its individual The Boards understanding of the complies with the Code requirement.
In accordance with the views of key stakeholders and All Directors, except Baroness Ruby Code, during the year under review the markets in which the Group McGregor-Smith and Michelle Healy, an externally facilitated evaluation was operates.
will submit themselves for re-election undertaken by Lintstock Limited an The management and focus of at the forthcoming Annual General advisory firm that specialises in Board Board meetings as well as the Meeting.
Baroness Ruby McGregorperformance reviews of the Board quality of information provided to Smith will step down from the Board and each of the Audit, Nomination and the Board and its Committees.
Michelle Healy, who Remuneration Committees.
was appointed a Director after the The Boards oversight of strategy The 2015 internal evaluation resulted Companys last Annual General Meeting and its implementation as well as in an action plan of matters for further will, in accordance with the Companys the Directors views as to the main attention during 2016 as follows: Articles of Association, stand for election strategic issues facing the Group.
at the Annual General Meeting.
Continue to build the bench The Boards focus on risk as well strength as part of the ongoing as the Boards oversight of culture Internal Control and Risk succession planning process: and behaviours throughout the organisation.
With the recent Board changes, Management The adequacy of succession plans review the Boards ongoing In accordance with the Code, the for members of top management improvement of its composition, Board has overall responsibility for the and the level of exposure the Board practices and processes: and effectiveness of the Groups system of has to management in various Further investigate the strategic internal control and risk management.
The investment opportunities in The procedures established by the Boards oversight of the processes key markets which will deliver Board have been designed and for managing, developing and competitive advantage.
implemented to meet the particular retaining internal talent was also requirements of the Group and the risks These action points were reviewed by considered.
the Board and its relevant Committees The output of the review was discussed and were dealt with accordingly.
These procedures also provide an by the Board and its Standing ongoing process for identifying, Committees and amongst other things In 2016 the Board engaged Lintstock evaluating and managing principal risks.
the Directors agreed to: Limited to undertake an evaluation of The system of internal control includes its performance, as well as that of the Focus on future Board composition financial, compliance and operational Board Standing Committees and the priorities, taking into account controls, which are designed to meet Chairman.
Apart from the provision the likely tenure of current Nonthe Groups particular needs.
These of this service, Lintstock has no other Executive Directors controls aim to safeguard Group assets, connection with the Group.
Continue enhancing the ensure that proper accounting records understanding of PageGroup The review involved Lintstock engaging are maintained, that the financial through site visits and by engaging with the Company Secretary and information used within the business and with management outside of Board Chairman to set the context for the for publication is reliable and to support meetings evaluation, to tailor survey content the successful delivery of the Groups to the specific circumstances of Assess the quality of information Strategic Plan.
Any system of internal PageGroup.
All Board members were provided to the Board, particularly control can only provide reasonable, requested to complete an online on strategic initiatives but not absolute, assurance against survey addressing the performance Continue to focus on key strategic material misstatement or loss.
In practice of the Board, its Committees, and the issues and investments PageGroup Annual Report 2016 44 Corporate Governance Report the Board delegates the implementation business has adhered to the system also available on the Companys website of the Boards policy on risks and control of internal control during the period, www.
The website contains to executive management and this is including compliance with Group up-to-date information on the Groups monitored by an Internal Audit function policies.
The statement also requires activities, published financial results and the which reports back to the Board through the reporting of any significant control presentations used for briefings and investor the Audit Committee.
issues that have emerged, including meetings held during the year.
These are suspected or reported frauds, so available to download.
The key elements of our system of internal that areas of Group concern can control are as follows: The Annual General Meeting is an additional be identified and investigated as opportunity for all Board members to meet Group Organisation The Board required.
These confirmations and with shareholders and investors and give of Directors meets eight times a year, supporting controls self-assessment them the opportunity to ask questions.
focusing both on strategic issues and questionnaires are reviewed by the Final voting results are published through a operational and financial performance.
Internal Audit function and a summary Regulatory Information Service and on the There is also a defined policy on of findings is provided to the Audit Companys website following the Meeting.
matters reserved strictly for the Board.
The Regional Managing Director, In accordance with the requirements of Conflicts supported by a Regional Finance the Code and the recommendations of Director, of each of our four regions The Company has implemented robust the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management is accountable for establishing and procedures in line with the Companies and Related Financial and Business monitoring internal controls within our Act 2006, requiring Directors to seek Reporting, the Board has reviewed and respective regions.
appropriate authorisation from the Board agreed its approach to risk and its risk Annual Business Plan The Board prior to entering into any outside business appetite when considering its strategy reviews the Groups strategy and interests which have, or could have, a and the management of its risks.
It has approves an annual Group budget.
direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or also considered its longer-term viability.
Performance is then monitored by may conflict, with the Groups interests.
Details on the Boards risk appetite and its the Board through the review of These procedures have operated effectively assessment of its longer-term viability can monthly reports showing comparisons throughout the year under review.
The be found in the Strategic Report on pages of results against budget, quarterly Nomination Committee is responsible for 26 and 30.
Further, the Board, with the forecasts and the prior year, with reviewing possible conflicts of interest.
It assistance of the Audit Committee, has explanations provided for significant makes recommendations to the Board as carried out a review of the effectiveness of variances.
to whether a conflict should be authorised the Groups risk management and internal and the terms and conditions on which any Policies and Procedures Policies control systems, including a review of the such authorisation should be given by the and procedures are documented Internal Audit activities and the financial, Board.
Only Directors without an interest in over both financial controls and nonoperational and compliance controls for the the matter being considered will be involved quantifiable areas such as the Groups period from 1 January 2016 to the date of in the decision and each Director must whistleblowing policy and its policy this Annual Report.
No significant failings or act in a way they consider, in good faith, relating to anti-bribery and corruption, weaknesses were identified.
A confirmation will promote the success of the Group.
of any necessary actions is, therefore, not All Directors are aware of their continuing Risk Management The Board has provided.
However, had there been any obligation to report any new interests, or established a framework for identifying such failings or weaknesses the Board changes in existing interests, that might and managing risk, both at a strategic confirms that necessary actions would have amount to a possible conflict of interest in and operational level.
An overview of been taken to remedy them.
order that these may be considered by the this framework and a summary of the Board and appropriate authorisation given.
principal risks identified, together with Relations with Shareholders mitigating actions, can be found in the Communications with shareholders are Strategic Report on pages 1 to 36. given a high priority.
The majority of contact Internal Audit The Groups Internal between the Board and shareholders is Audit function examines business David Lowden through the Chief Executive Officer and process controls throughout the Chairman the Chief Financial Officer.
They make Group on a risk basis and reports the themselves available, where possible, to 7 March 2017 findings to the Executive Board and meet with shareholders and analysts at Audit Committee.
Agreed actions are their request.
During 2016 the Executive monitored and reported to the Directors visited eight cities on roadshows Audit Committee.
across the United Kingdom, Europe and Confirmations from Executive North America.
They also held investor Management The Managing conferences and equity sales teams Director and Finance Director of our briefings, as well as over 147 investor operations in each country formally meetings.
The Annual Report and certify twice a year whether the Accounts is sent to all shareholders and is PageGroup Annual Report 2016 45
