Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our Board of Directors David Lowden, Steve Ingham, Chief Executive Kelvin Stagg, Chief Financial Chairman Officer, Executive Director Officer, Executive Director Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Director August 2012 February 2001 June 2014 Chairman December 2015 Chief Executive Officer April 2006 Past Roles: David was a member of Past Roles: Steve joined Michael Page Past Roles: Kelvin joined PageGroup plc the Board of Taylor Nielson Sofres plc, in 1987 as a consultant with Michael in July 2006 as Group Financial Controller the marketing services business, from Page Marketing and Sales.
He was and Company Secretary.
He was appointed 1999 to 2009, becoming Chief Executive responsible for setting up the London Acting Chief Financial Officer in October Officer in 2006.
Before joining Taylor Marketing and Sales business and was 2013.
He held the title of Company Nielson Sofres plc David held senior promoted to Operating Director in 1990.
In June financial positions in Asprey plc, He was appointed Managing Director 2014 Kelvin was appointed Chief Financial A. C. Nielsen Corporation and Federal of Michael Page Marketing and Sales in Officer.
Prior to joining the Group, Kelvin Express Corporation.
Subsequently Steve took additional spent six years at Allied Domecq and responsibility for several businesses.
He three years at Unilever in a variety of Other Current Appointments: Senior was promoted to the Board as Executive finance functions.
He has significant Independent Director and Chairman Director of UK Operations in February international experience and has high of the Remuneration Committee, 2001 and subsequently to Managing levels of compliance, change management, Berensden plc: Non-Executive Director Director of UK Operations in May 2005. large teams and systems experience, and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Steve was appointed Chief Executive across almost every finance discipline.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Board Committees: Nomination Other Current Appointments: NonOther Current Appointments: None Chairman Executive Director, Debenhams plc.
Board Committees: None Skills and Experience: Member of the Corporate Partnership Board, Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Skills and Experience: Extensive experience in both general management and More than ten years in the Group Board Committees: None financial management with a detailed knowledge of the Skills and Experience: Groups operations Many years of operating within 30 years service with the Group and international businesses with Extensive experience in finance, recruitment industry cultural diversity audit and risk management 11 years as a CEO of a public Strong strategic understanding Significant international experience company, now FTSE 250, with strong including roles in the UK, Continental Proven ability for delivering IR skills, delivering shareholder value Europe and Asia shareholder value Strong entrepreneurial and strategic High levels of compliance, change Strong financial, marketing and skills having initiated and grown many management, large teams and commercial skills businesses systems experience, across almost Experienced non-executive in Extensive experience in business every finance discipline several sectors development and account Strong network of finance management professionals Significant international experience including the emerging markets of SE Asia, China, Latin America and India Leadership of a global people business having seen PageGroup grow from 200 to over 6,000 employees Experience in other sectors and industries having worked on the Boards of a major charity and retailer PageGroup Annual Report 2016 38 Our Board of Directors Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith Simon Boddie, Independent Danuta Gray, Independent CBE, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: May 2007 September 2012 December 2013 Past Roles: Danuta was Chairman of Past Roles: Ruby qualified as a Past Roles: Simon qualified as a Telefonica O2 in Ireland until December Chartered Accountant with BDO Stoy Chartered Accountant with Price 2012, having previously been its Chief Hayward.
Ruby joined Mitie Group plc Waterhouse.
He was Group Finance Executive from 2001 to 2010.
Prior to that in December 2002 as Group Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc until Danuta was Senior Vice President for BT Director and was appointed Chief 2015.
Prior to that Simon held a variety of Europe in Germany and during her career Operating Officer in September 2005. senior finance positions with Diageo over a gained experience in sales, marketing, She was Chief Executive of Mitie Group 13-year career, latterly Finance Director of customer services and technology and in plc from March 2007 to December Key Markets.
leading and changing large businesses.
Other Current Appointments: Chief She previously served for seven years Other Current Appointments: Financial Officer, Coats Group plc.
on the Board of Irish Life and Permanent Member of the Womens Business plc and was a Director of Business in the Board Committees: Audit Chairman, Council: Non-Executive Director of the Community Ireland and Aer Lingus plc.
Nomination, Remuneration Department of Education.
Other Current Appointments: NonSkills and Experience: Board Committees: Nomination Executive Director and Remuneration CFO of FTSE 250 public company for Committee Chairman, Old Mutual plc: NonSkills and Experience: over ten years Executive Director and Senior Independent CEO, COO and CFO experience Extensive experience in financial, audit Director of Aldermore Bank PLC: Nonwith a FTSE 250 public company and risk management Executive Director of Paddy Power Betfair for over 13 years Many years of operating within plc : Non-Executive Director, Direct Line Strong strategic and commercial international businesses with cultural Insurance Group plc: Member of the understanding diversity Defence Board, UK Ministry of Defence.
Proven ability for delivering Emerging markets experience Board Committees: Remuneration shareholder value Strong strategic and commercial Chairman, Audit, Nomination Extensive experience in customer understanding Skills and Experience: services Broad industry experience, including Chairman and CEO experience Significant financial, audit and risk consumer goods, distribution and management systems experience Experienced non-executive in several manufacturing sectors Ruby was a member of the Audit Extensive experience in general and Remuneration Committees until management 23 May 2016 Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Strong strategic understanding Extensive experience in sales, marketing, customer services and technology Leading and changing large businesses Danuta will cease to be a Non-Executive Director of Paddy Power Betfair plc from 17 May 2017 PageGroup Annual Report 2016 39 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Michelle Healy, Independent Patrick fide Smedt, Senior Elaine Marriner, Non-Executive Director Independent Director Company Secretary Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: October 2016 August 2015 December 2013 Past Roles: Before joining ISS in April Past Roles: Patrick spent 23 years at Past Roles: Prior to this 2015 Michelle was Director, Group Microsoft during which time he founded appointment Elaine was Company Integrated Change Programme at the Benelux subsidiaries, led the Secretary and General Counsel of SABMiller plc.
Prior to this, Michelle development of its Western European HMV Group plc.
was General Manager UK & Ireland for business and served as Chairman of Skills and Experience: British American Tobacco plc, having Microsoft for Europe, Middle East and Over 25 years experience as a previously held a number of senior roles Africa.
Since leaving Microsoft in 2006, Chartered Secretary within the Group.
Michelles earlier career Patrick has served on the boards of a included assignments with Kerry Group number of European public and private Extensive public company, plc and Trust Management Consultants companies.
He has deep knowledge of compliance and corporate in Germany.
international markets and information governance experience technology, and experience as a nonGeneral counsel experience in Other Current Appointments: Group executive in diverse industry sectors.
FTSE250 companies from a Chief People & Culture Officer, ISS World number of business sectors Services A S. Other Current Appointments: NonExecutive Director and Remuneration Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Committee Chairman of Victrex plc: Remuneration Senior Independent Director of KCOM Skills and Experience: Group plc: Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman Extensive experience in global of Morgan Sindall Group plc: Nonhuman resources leadership Executive Director of Kodak Alaris Leading and delivering change Holdings Ltd: Non-Executive Director of Extensive experience in general Nexinto GmbH.
management Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: Extensive experience of technology and customer services Experienced non-executive in several sectors Extensive experience in general management Many years of operating within international businesses with cultural diversity Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Leading and changing large businesses PageGroup Annual Report 2016 40
