Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Nomination Committee Report Responsibilities The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Assess and nominate members to the Board: Maintain the right mix of character, skills and experience on the Board and its Committees: Make recommendations to the Board on development and succession plans for members of the Board and senior management: Approve job descriptions and written terms of appointment for Directors: and Review the independence of Non-Executive Directors, taking into account their other directorships.
David Lowden, Committee Chairman The Committee follows formal and transparent procedures for appointing Directors.
It is assisted in its search for new non-executive directors by an independent executive Purpose search company.
With each new search the Committee selects the executive search company which it considers the most appropriate and relevant for the assignment.
The Nomination Committee is These executive search companies have no connection with the Company other responsible for ensuring that the than the provision of the search services.
With each assignment a detailed candidate Company has the executive and nonprofile is compiled and discussed by the Committee, taking into consideration the executive Board leadership it requires, balance of skills and experience of existing Board members and the requirements of both now and for the future.
the Company and its future strategy.
Once finalised the profile is recommended by the Committee to the Board for its approval.
Membership If approved, a search and selection process based on that profile is undertaken.
During the year under review the Candidates are identified and selected on merit against objective criteria and with members of the Committee were David due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
A shortlist of Lowden, who was Chairman of the candidates is then interviewed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Committee, Simon Boddie, Patrick fide Officer and members of the Committee.
Thereafter a recommendation of appointment Smedt, Danuta Gray, Michelle Healy is made to the Board.
Michelle Healy became a member of Geographic and gender diversity is important both at Board level and at every other the Committee on 10 October 2016 on level in the business.
It therefore remains the Committees policy to seek diversity of her appointment as a Director of the experience, capability, geographic experience and gender in order to create a talented Company.
All other members served high-performing Board.
Details on the Companys work in respect of diversity below throughout the year.
Details of David Board level can be found in the Strategic Report on page 20.
Lowdens other significant commitments can be found on page 38.
Activities During the Year Only members of the Committee are During 2016 the Committee met on five occasions.
Details of the members entitled to attend meetings.
Other attendance at meetings of the Committee are as follows: individuals, such as the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Human Resources Director No.
of meetings Director and external advisers, may Held Attended attend meetings by invitation when David Lowden 5 5 appropriate and necessary.
This arrangement fosters appropriate Simon Boddie 5 5 challenge, questioning and debate of Patrick fide Smedt 5 5 the recommendations made by the Committee to the Board.
Danuta Gray 5 5 1 Michelle Healy 5 1 2 Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith 5 3 Notes: 1.
Michelle Healy was appointed to the Committee on 10 October 2016 so was eligible to attend only one Nomination Committee meeting.
Bar oness Ruby McGregor-Smith was unable to attend two meetings of the Nomination Committee due to prior engagements.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 46 Nomination Committee Report The Committee continues to focus on from 23 May 2016.
She also ceased to The activities of the Committee were succession planning both for senior be the Senior Independent Director from reviewed as part of the annual Board management and the Board.
The 9 June 2016 when Patrick fide Smedt was evaluation process.
During the year under Committee undertook the selection of a appointed in her stead.
At the Annual review the external evaluation process was new Non-Executive Director which resulted General Meeting of the Company held in undertaken independently by Lintstock in the appointment of Michelle Healy on June 2016, Baroness Ruby McGregorLimited.
Details of the evaluation process 10 October 2016.
The independent Smith was reappointed as a Director of the can be found in the Corporate Governance executive search agency, The Zygos Company for a further year.
Partnership, were engaged for this The letter of appointment for Danuta Gray appointment.
Plan for 2017 reached the end of its initial three-year term The Committee also considered the in December 2016 and the Committee In 2017 the Committee will continue to extension of the term of appointment recommended to and the Board approved review the size of the Board, its mix of skills for each of Baroness Ruby McGregorits renewal for a further three-year period.
and experience, and succession plans Smith and Danuta Gray.
Neither Ruby nor for both Executive and Non-Executive The Committee also considered the Danuta took part in discussions about the Directors.
pipeline of talent for the Executive Board extension of their own term.
to ensure there is sufficient bench strength Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith to run key parts of PageGroup.
Committee completed nine years as a Non-Executive members meet Executive Committee Director on 23 May 2016.
Due to the members, and executives at the level Board changes which took place in 2015 below the Executive Board, through and Rubys extensive experience, gained presentations at the Companys annual through the different parts of the economic Strategy Day and at Board Meetings.
The cycle, the Directors requested Ruby to management and development of the continue to serve on the Board.
Ruby talent pipeline is left to the Chief Executive ceased to be a member of the Audit and Officer so that the independence of the Remuneration Committees with effect Committee and its members is maintained.
