Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Audit Committee Report the Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary, the Director of Internal Audit and the external audit partner are regularly invited to attend meetings as appropriate and necessary.
The Committee can invite others to attend as appropriate.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Committee has the current and relevant financial and accounting experience required by the provisions of the Code.
Other members of the Committee have a sufficiently wide range of business experience and expertise such that the Committee can effectively fulfil its role.
The relevant qualifications and experience of the Committee members are shown in their biographies on pages 38 to 40.
The Committee met with the external auditor during the year without the presence of management in order to provide an opportunity for confidential discussion.
The Director of Internal Audit and the external auditor have Simon Boddie, direct access to the Chairman of the Committee throughout the year.
Committee Chairman During the year under review the Committee met on seven occasions.
Committee meetings are set to coincide with key dates of the financial reporting calendar and Purpose the audit cycle.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
Details of the members attendance at the meetings of the Committee are as The Audit Committee is the guardian follows:- of the integrity of the Companys financial statements and external Director No.
of meetings reporting of performance.
It also has Held Attended the responsibility for ensuring that the Simon Boddie 7 7 necessary internal controls and risk management systems are in place Patrick fide Smedt 7 7 and effective.
Danuta Gray 7 7 1 Michelle Healy 7 1 Membership 2 Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith 7 3 During the year under review the Notes: members of the Committee were 1.
Michelle Healy was appointed to the Committee on 10 October 2016 so was eligible to attend only one Simon Boddie, who was the Chairman Audit Committee meeting.
of the Committee, Patrick fide Smedt, 2.
Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 23 May 2016 so was Danuta Gray, Baroness Ruby McGregoronly eligible to attend three Audit Committee meetings.
All served throughout the year except Baroness Set out in the table on page 49 is a summary of the main activities of the Committee Ruby McGregor-Smith and Michelle during 2016.
Key issues covered by the Committee are reported to the Board.
Ruby ceased to be a member of the Committee on 23 May 2016 Financial Reporting when she completed her ninth year as In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested parties, the Board aims to a Non-Executive Director.
Michelle was present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and appointed a member of the Committee prospects, providing necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys on 10 October 2016 on her appointment business model, strategy and performance.
The Company has an established process as a Director of the Company.
As part for reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure it is fair, balanced and of the director induction programme understandable.
This was used again this year.
It included a thorough understanding Michelle was, amongst other things, of the regulatory requirements for the Annual Report and Accounts: a process to provided with a copy of the Committees determine the accuracy, consistency and clarity of the data and language: and a Terms of Reference and an indication of detailed review by all appropriate parties including external advisers.
A checklist of the expected time commitment required all the elements of the process was completed to document the process and as a Director of the Company.
Michelle cascaded sign-off implemented through the Groups management structure to provide was also provided with an overview of assurance to the Committee that the appropriate procedures had been undertaken by the Companys business model and all Group companies.
strategy as well as the principal risks of the Company.
Training of all members of As part of the FRCs thematic review on tax risks disclosures which it undertook in the Committee takes place on a regular respect of 10% of FTSE 350 companies it reviewed the Companys 2015 Annual and ongoing basis through updates, Report and Accounts in relation to the transparent recording of the relationship provided by the Companys external between tax charges and accounting profit.
The FRC gave the Companys tax auditor, on developments in corporate disclosures a favourable review.
The Committee has reviewed the Companys 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Only members of the Committee are It provided comments which were incorporated into the Annual Report and Accounts entitled to attend meetings.
Other and has advised the Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Accounts individuals, such as the Chairman of taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, necessary to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 48 Audit Committee Report Main Activities of the Audit Committee During 2016 January April October Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements Quarter 4 trading update Quarter 1 trading update Quarter 3 trading update External Auditor Approval of the external March July auditors fees Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements Draft preliminary Quarter 2 trading update announcement and 2015 December Annual Report and Accounts Review of Financial Statements External auditors year-end August Review of 2016 Annual Report report Review of Financial Statements and Accounts process Going concern analysis Draft interim report Viability Statement review Viability Statement Review of non-audit fees Risk and Internal Control Risk and Internal Control Fair, balanced and Internal audit update Internal audit update understandable review Risk management update Approval of internal audit plan Management letter of for 2017 External Auditor representation Confirmation of principal risks External auditors 2015 Review of the approach for the Risk and Internal Control management letter Viability Statement in the 2016 Ratification of principal risks External auditors interim Annual Report and Accounts Internal audit update review External Auditor Assessment of risk of material Compliance misstatement Updated assessment of risk of Meeting with external auditor material misstatement Scope of the full year audit without Executive Directors Updated scope of the full year Interim review management audit External Auditor letter of representation External auditor satisfaction Review of the external Compliance survey auditors fee Year-end legislative and Reappointment of external Review of external auditor procedural matters auditor independence and objectivity Regulatory update Policy on the provision of nonTreasury Policy audit services Implications of IFRS 15 Review and update and IFRS 16 External auditor partner rotation Compliance Meeting with external auditor without Executive Directors PageGroup Annual Report 2016 49 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Significant Accounting Issues and Areas of Judgement The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgement that may materially impact reported results as well as the clarity of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting standards and the relevant requirements around financial and governance reporting.
Details on accounting policies can be found on pages 86 to 90.
The significant issues and areas of judgement considered by the Committee during the year and how these were addressed were as follows: Significant issue How the Committee addressed the issue Revenue Context: Revenue recognition for permanent and temporary placements, with particular focus on period Recognition end cut off and appropriate accounting treatment in accordance with IFRS and Group accounting policies.
Revenue from permanent placements is derived from both retained assignments income recognised on completion of defined stages of work and non-retained assignments income recognised at the date an offer is accepted by a candidate and where a start date has been determined.
Revenue from temporary placements, which represents amounts billed for the services of temporary staff, including the salary cost of these staff, is recognised when the service has been provided.
Actions taken: The Committee reviews and discusses revenue recognition with management, the internal audit team and the external auditor.
Conclusions and rationale: The Committee concluded that the approach to revenue recognition was consistent with the policies and that any judgments made were appropriate Transfer Pricing Context: Transfer pricing provisions with particular reference to their recoverability and adequacy.
With Provision c. 75% of its operations in overseas territories, the Group is subject to significant international tax legislation which impacts the determination of the transfer pricing provision.
Actions taken: The Committee reviews this area on a six monthly basis to ensure transfer pricing provisions remain appropriate.
Conclusions and rationale: The Committee agreed with managements assessment of the provisions held around transfer pricing.
The Committee reviewed with Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys external auditor, the methodology used to test the assumptions and estimates made by management in each of these areas.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 50 Audit Committee Report the safeguards in place to deal with the Robustness and perceptiveness of External Auditors Independence independence threats from such work the external auditor in handling key and Effectiveness as detailed in Note 3 to the financial accounting and audit judgements: statements and concluded that Ernst & The Committee monitors the objectivity, Content of reports provided to the Young LLP remained independent.
independence and effectiveness of the Committee by the external auditor external auditor.
The Company is mindful of including reporting on internal control: The Committee considers that in 2016 it the provisions of the Code, best practice, and has complied with the Competition and the Competition and Market Authority Audit Market Authority Audit Order 2014.
Feedback from management which Order 2014 and EU audit legislation as is ascertained from staff surveys Further, during the year under review, regards audit firm rotation and the provision completed by staff involved in the the Committee discussed and agreed of non-audit services.
the scope of the year-end audit and considered both matters in each of 2014, approved the audit fee.
Details of the fees Following a full evaluation of the external 2015 and 2016. paid to Ernst & Young LLP during 2016 auditor at the end of the 2016 audit, the Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys current in respect of non-audit services are shown Committee recommended to the Board the external auditor, was appointed in 2011 on page 93. reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as following a tender process.
In accordance Auditor of the Company at the forthcoming The objectivity and independence of the with audit regulation, Ernst & Young LLP Annual General Meeting.
external auditor is safeguarded by: operate a policy of rotating the Audit Partner every five years.
The Audit Partner Obtaining assurances from the Internal Control and who had served as the Companys Audit external auditor that adequate policies Risk Management Partner since 2011 stepped down after the and procedures exist within its firm completion of the 2015 year end audit and to ensure that the firm and staff are The Boards responsibilities for, and a new Audit Partner, Bob Forsyth, was independent of the Group by reason their report on, risk management and appointed in 2016. of family, finance, employment, the systems of internal control and their investment and business relationship effectiveness are set out in the Corporate The Committee approved and other than in the normal course of Governance Report on pages 44 and 45. implemented in 2014 a policy for the tender business : of external audit services.
This policy On behalf of the Board the Committee Enforcing a policy of reviewing all provides that the Company will retender reviewed the Groups risk assessment cases where it is proposed that a the external audit at least every ten years procedures for identifying its principal former employee of the external and will change the external auditor at risks and its longer-term viability.
The auditor be employed by the Group in least every 20 years.
Thus, the Company risk assessment takes account of all a senior management position or at expects to tender the external audit in risks, including environmental, social Board level: respect of the 2021 year end during the and governance matters, inherent in the course of 2020, but this position is subject Monitoring the external auditors strategy of the business and its plan.
These to annual review by the Audit Committee.
compliance with applicable UK ethical procedures include regular reports to the guidance on the rotation of audit Committee from the Director of Internal The Committee also reviewed its policy on partners: and Audit on the performance of the system of the use of the external auditor for non-audit internal control and on its effectiveness in Enforcing a policy concerning the services in 2014, 2015 and again in 2016 managing material risks and identifying any provision of non-audit services by the and determined that the policy should control failings or weaknesses.
The policy prohibits the external auditor from certain services The Committee also reviews the Groups The Committee considers the annual which could give rise to independence risk management process annually, with appointment of the external auditor by threats such as computing tax provisions, the outcome being reported to the Board.
shareholders at the Annual General payroll services, acting as an advocate, This, together with regular updates to Meeting to be a fundamental safeguard.
internal audit and system design.
In line the Board on material risks, allows the The performance and effectiveness of with new ethical regulations for external Board to make the assessment on the the external auditor is also reviewed auditors, the Audit Committee has agreed systems of internal control and the residual annually by the Committee.
This covers a more restrictive policy from 1 January risk for the purpose of making its public qualification, expertise, resources and 2017 which prohibits the external auditor statement.
The risk process, together with reappointment as well as assurance that from providing a more extensive range the key risks and their indicators, have there are no issues which could adversely of services which includes, inter alia, tax been identified and mitigating actions are affect the external auditors independence advice, tax compliance services and global described in the Strategic Report on pages and objectivity taking into account the mobility support.
Key performance indicators and relevant standards.
In this respect the before the end of 2016 for all such existing management incentives are highlighted for Committee reviewed the: services provided by Ernst & Young LLP to the main financial, strategic and people be transferred to other service providers.
Robustness of the external auditors risks in the Strategic Report on pages plan and its identification of key risks: 15 to 17.
In respect of 2016 the level of non-audit Fulfilment of the agreed external audit services relative to the global audit fee Where weaknesses have been identified plan and any variations from the plan: was 35%.
The Audit Committee reviewed in the internal control system for the PageGroup Annual Report 2016 51 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information mitigation of risks to an acceptable the evaluation process can be found in about possible improprieties in financial level, plans to strengthen the control the Corporate Governance Report on reporting or other matters and ensuring system are put in place.
Action plans page 44. that these concerns are investigated in this respect are regularly monitored and escalated as appropriate.
During the period under promoted in all regions by the Internal Fraud review there were no control failings or Audit function, is run by an external third The Committee reviews the procedures weaknesses that resulted in unforeseen party and is available to all employees for the prevention and detection of material losses.
There were no reportable fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases whistleblowing incidents reported during of fraud must be reported to the Chief Internal Audit Activities the year under review.
Financial Officer and the Director of During the year under review the Internal Audit and investigated by Committee monitored and reviewed operational management and Internal Simon Boddie the effectiveness of the Internal Audit Audit.
The outcome of any investigation Chairman of the Audit Committee function.
To ensure there is breadth is reported to the Committee.
A register and depth of risk and internal control 7 March 2017 of all suspected fraudulent activity and experience to this function, the Groups the outcome of any investigation is Internal Audit function comprises a kept and is circulated to the Committee Director of Internal Audit and a team of on a regular basis.
During the year in internal auditors.
The Director of Internal question, no frauds of a material nature Audit reports to the Chief Financial were reported.
Officer on a day-to-day basis, but also has a reporting line to the Chairman Anti-Bribery and Corruption of the Audit Committee.
He also has and Business Ethics direct access to the Committee and the Board.
This ensures there is opportunity The Company has a Code of Conduct for frank and open dialogue.
The scope which can be found on its website of work for the Internal Audit function is www.
This sets out the agreed with the Committee annually with standards of behaviour by which all the findings from internal audits being employees of the Group are bound and reported to the Executive Board and the is based on the Companys commitment Audit Committee.
Businesses are visited to acting professionally, fairly and on a rotational risk-based approach with integrity.
to assess the effectiveness of controls The Group maintains a zero tolerance to mitigate risks to an acceptable approach against corruption.
All major risks are addressed in established anti-bribery and corruption this process, including those around policy, which includes guidance on governance, environmental and social the giving and receiving of gifts and related matters.
This policy applies throughout Actions to maintain and improve the the Group.
The policy and the training effectiveness of the control environment of employees is regularly reviewed and are agreed with the Executive Board updated when required.
The training is and are monitored and reported to the undertaken by all managers and all staff Committee.
Risks are also regularly in risk areas across the Group by means reviewed and required changes are of review and presentation of standard made to the risk profile and, where Group-prepared training material.
necessary, to the activity of Internal A gifts and entertainments register is Audit.
All changes to the Internal Audit maintained to ensure transparency.
plan are agreed with the Chairman of A review of compliance with the policy the Committee and reported to the is undertaken annually.
The review Executive Board and the Committee.
undertaken in 2016 showed there was a good understanding of the issue and Committee Evaluation no breaches were reported.
The activities of the Committee were Whistleblowing reviewed as part of the Board evaluation process performed during the year In accordance with the provisions of the under review.
The 2016 evaluation Code, the Committee is responsible for process was undertaken by an external reviewing the arrangements whereby third party.
Details and the outcome of staff may, in confidence, raise concerns PageGroup Annual Report 2016 52
