76 DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Remuneration policy from 2017 Talent we must be able to attract and retain the individuals Introduction necessary for business success across a global and diverse talent pool.
Our recent experience has shown that our current level of The policy will take effect from 4 May 2017, subject to shareholder reward is not sufficiently competitive to secure some key talent approval at the AGM.
that would make a strong contribution to the Group.
Consideration of shareholder feedback Stewardship the system of remuneration should align interests of During the policy review we have had extensive and constructive executives and shareholders and comprise a significant proportion consultation with our largest shareholders which has been a of share-based long term incentives.
significant factor in shaping the new policy.
Further details are Simplification our reward structure and performance measures set out on page 73. should be aligned to the strategy and be simple to communicate to The overall consensus that came out of the consultation was: participants and shareholders.
It should reflect the business priorities in terms of both financial and non-financial parameters Recognition of the level of challenge in delivering transformation and be seen to incentivise the right behaviours and the right and attracting top talent.
outcomes for a long term, sustainable and profitable future.
Support for simplified remuneration structures.
Given the importance of delivering our business transformation Strong support for cash as the most important measure of over the next three years, we believe that retaining a strong performance.
emphasis on performance-related incentives is appropriate.
We therefore plan to retain a structure of salary, benefits, annual bonus Welcome for the inclusion of a holding period post the and long term incentives, underpinned by appropriate performance performance period on the LTIP.
Support for an increase in the LTIP maximum award in the context of delivering the transformation, linked to appropriately Main changes to policy design stretching targets.
Supporting transformation we will better align the incentive Recognition of the value of having some objective and performance measures and weighting of those measures to our quantifiable non-financial measures in addition to financial business strategy.
For 2017, LTIP awards will be weighted 60% CPS, measures in our short-term incentive plan.
Talent we will increase the level of award so that we can attract These views have been reflected in the final policy design for 2017. and retain the talent that we need.
Under the new policy the normal Key policy themes maximum level of long-term incentive award is increased from 180% for the Chief Executive and 150% for the other Executive As part of the remuneration policy review, the Committee has taken Directors to 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 225% for the opportunity to take a broad look at our remuneration approach other Executive Directors.
The overall maximum under the policy underpinned by four key themes: will be 300% for the Chief Executive and 250% for other Executive Supporting transformation our policy should incentivise and Directors for use in recruitment only.
reward the delivery of our transformation programme over the next three years.
This programme aims to simplify the organisation and Stewardship we will introduce a two-year shareholding period processes and embed the right cultural behaviours: these set the following the three-year LTIP performance period.
This will support foundation for cost reduction and improved productivity, as well as the continued alignment of Executive Directors reward to the greater pace, simplicity and clearer accountability in the way we interests of shareholders.
We will reduce the amount of the work.
This programme is essential to achieving both the production long-term incentive award that vests for threshold performance ramp-up and cost efficiencies that underpin the cash flow from 30% of the award equivalent to 54% of salary for the Chief generation that is key to our long-term investment case.
Our view Executive to 20% of the award equivalent to 50% of salary.
is that remuneration should be strongly linked to the successful Simplification we are simplifying the structure of our bonus delivery of this programme and its financial benefits.
and LTIP replacing multiplicative structures, hurdles and kickers with simpler additive components.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 REMUNERATION POLICY 77 Summary of policy design changes and link to policy themes Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentive plan 80% Group 20% individual Base Salary performance performance 60% 20% 20% CPS EPS TSR Bene ts 25% 75% nonfinancial financial Customer Pro t Pension Employee Cash Shareholding requirement Three-year performance period followed 40% of award deferred into by two-year holding period shares for two years Malus and clawback Weightings and non-financial measures are as applied in 2017.
Element Commentary Policy theme Fixed pay No changes are proposed to the fixed pay element of the remuneration policy approved by shareholders Talent at the 2014 AGM.
The new remuneration policy to be approved at the 2017 AGM will continue to apply until the 2020 AGM.
Annual bonus Performance measures remain appropriate following the introduction of customer and employee Transformation metrics in 2016.
Bonuses are determined primarily by Group financial performance but the Committee may apply non-financial metrics that support the underlying strategic priorities for the forthcoming year.
From 2017, Executive Director bonuses will be awarded using a simple additive approach: Simplification 80% of the award will be based on Group performance.
20% of the award will be based on individual performance.
40% of any bonus will be deferred into shares for two years.
Stewardship Long-term CPS, EPS and TSR remain our long-term measures of success and reflect the strategic focus on profitable Transformation incentive plan growth, the quality of profit, and returns to shareholders.
During shareholder consultation we received strong support for the continued use of cash flow as the central measure of long-term performance.
The structure will be amended so elements are measured independently, rather than using an EPS hurdle Simplification and a TSR multiplier.
The introduction of a two-year shareholding period following the three-year performance period.
Stewardship This includes a requirement to continue to hold shares after participants have left the Group.
20% of the maximum award will vest for threshold performance a reduction from 30% in the current remuneration policy.
The new remuneration policy includes an overall maximum of up to 300% of salary for the Chief Executive Talent and 250% for other Executive Directors.
The intention is that this flexibility will only be used in recruitment to secure talent across a global and diverse talent pool.
The intended operational maximum for the three-year period of this policy is 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 225% of salary for other Executive Directors.
78 DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Remuneration policy table The table below sets out each element of Executive Directors remuneration.
Pay element fixed pay Base salary Purpose and The Company provides competitive salaries suitable to attract and retain individuals of the right calibre to develop and execute link to strategy the business strategy.
Operation Salaries are reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually.
Decisions on salary are informed but not led by reference to companies of a similar size, complexity and international reach.
Maximum Any salary increases will be assessed annually and will not normally exceed average increases for employees in other appropriate opportunity parts of the Group.
The Committee may exercise discretion to make larger increases in circumstances where it is necessary to address particular issues or risks, including growth in the role for new appointments.
Benefits Purpose and The Company provides competitive benefits suitable to attract and retain individuals of the right calibre to develop and execute link to strategy the business strategy.
Operation Benefits may include car or car allowance and related costs, financial planning assistance, private medical insurance, life assurance and other appropriate benefits at the discretion of the Committee.
Relocation support or support for accommodation and travel may be offered to executives where necessary.
Executive Directors may participate in all-employee share plans including ShareSave and the Share Incentive Plan.
Maximum Benefits excluding all employee share plans, and any accommodation, relocation and associated tax costs will not exceed 100,000 opportunity per annum.
Pension Purpose and The Company provides competitive pension schemes suitable to attract and retain individuals of the right calibre to develop link to strategy and execute the business strategy.
Operation Executive Directors are offered membership of a defined contribution pension plan.
A cash allowance may be payable in lieu of pension contributions, reduced to allow for additional National Insurance incurred.
There are a number of legacy pension arrangements, including defined benefit plans, which were in place before 27 June 2012 and have not changed.
Commitments to these arrangements will be honoured.
Maximum The maximum employer contribution to defined contribution plans or to be taken as a cash allowance is 25% of salary.
opportunity Pension contributions are based on base salary only.
Defined benefit legacy plans, now closed to new members, accrue pension up to a maximum of two thirds of final salary.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 REMUNERATION POLICY 79 Pay element variable pay Annual bonus Purpose and To incentivise the execution of the business strategy, delivery of financial targets, and the achievement of personal objectives.
link to strategy Operation Bonuses are determined primarily by Group financial performance, but the Committee may apply non-financial metrics that support the underlying strategic priorities for the forthcoming year and or adjust the payout level to ensure the outturns reflect performance.
The bonuses payable are also linked to personal performance of the Executive Directors.
The financial and non-financial metrics are set with reference to the prior year and to the budgets and business plans for the coming year, ensuring the levels to achieve base, on-target and maximum payout are appropriately stretching.
At least 40% of the bonus is compulsorily deferred into shares for a further two years, and released subject to continued employment.
Deferred shares may attract an issue of C Shares or equivalent during the deferral period.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions where there has been a material misstatement of audited results: serious financial irregularity which invalidates the targets set: reputational damage: material failure of risk management a serious breach of the Groups Global Code of Conduct: or individual gross misconduct.
These provisions apply from the date of deferral until three years after the release of shares.
Maximum The annual maximum for the Chief Executive is 180% of salary and 150% for other Executive Directors.
opportunity Performance The bonus is weighted 80% on Group metrics, and 20% on individual performance.
Within the Group metrics: measures At least 60% is based on Group financial targets for example profit and free cash flow.
Up to 40% of the bonus is based on non-financial metrics such as employee engagement and customer delivery.
Individual objectives are set and agreed with the Remuneration Committee at the start of each year, to reflect the prevailing business context.
The Committee may, in the context of the underlying business strategy, use different performance measures.
Long-term incentive plan LTIP Purpose and To reward the development and execution of the business strategy over a multi-year period.
link to strategy Operation Executive Directors are granted awards over shares annually with a three-year performance period.
The number of shares relative to the proportion of the award that vests is determined at the end of the performance period according to the achievement against the performance measures.
The proportion of award that vests is then held for a further two-year holding period.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions where there has been a material misstatement of audited results: serious financial irregularity which invalidates the targets set: reputational damage: material failure of risk management: a serious breach of the Groups Global Code of Conduct: or individual gross misconduct.
These provisions apply from the date of the award until three years from the date of vesting.
Maximum Normal annual awards: opportunity Chief Executive 250% of salary.
Other Executive Directors 225% of salary.
The maximum face value of annual awards is 300% of salary for the Chief Executive and 250% for other Executive Directors.
This flexibility would only be used in recruitment to secure individuals with the required skills and experience.
This flexibility would not be used in the normal course of business.
Performance Performance measures may include CPS, EPS, and or relative TSR.
measures For 2017 awards the measures will be weighted 60% CPS, 20% EPS, 20% TSR.
No more than 20% of awards will vest for threshold performance.
The Committee may, in the context of the underlying business strategy, use different performance measures and or vary the weightings of the measures.
80 DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 The table below sets out the main elements of Non-executive Directors remuneration.
Pay element Fees Purpose and To reward individuals for fulfilling their role and attract individuals of the skills and calibre required.
link to strategy Operation The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Chairmans remuneration.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors determine the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
Levels take into account fees paid by other companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Chairman is paid a single fee.
Other Non-executive Directors are paid a base fee covering Board and Board Committee membership, with committee chairmen and the Senior Independent Director receiving an additional fee.
Maximum The maximum total remuneration payable to Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, is 1,600,000 opportunity per annum.
Benefits Purpose and To devote maximum time and attention to the requirements of the role.
link to strategy Operation The Chairman has occasional use of chauffeur services.
Travel, hotel and subsistence incurred in attending meetings are reimbursed by the Company.
The Group may pay tax on such benefits, or provide support with tax matters for Non-executive Directors based outside the UK.
Maximum Maximum value for chauffeur services will not exceed 15,000 per annum.
opportunity 5,000 maximum towards tax advice and filing per annum.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 REMUNERATION POLICY 81 Remuneration policy worked examples below Performance measures and targets POLICY ILLUSTRATION The Committee will set Group financial targets for annual bonus and LTIP awards with reference to the prior year and to Chief Executive 000 forward-looking business forecasts, ensuring the levels of Minimum 1,173 performance required to achieve base, on-target and maximum On-target bonus awards are appropriately challenging.
2,006 cash On-target The Committee may, in the context of the underlying business 3,162 total strategy, use different performance measures for incentives and or Maximum 5,151 vary the weightings of the measures used for LTIP awards.
For example, during the next two years we will transition to IFRS 15 Chief Financial Ocer 000 which will impact the reporting of revenue and profit.
The Committee may choose to increase the weighting on EPS as this Minimum 892 new reporting standard becomes more established.
On-target 1,402 cash The measurement of performance against performance targets is On-target 2,167 total at the Committees discretion, which may include appropriate adjustments to financial or non-financial elements and or Maximum 3,442 consideration of overall performance in the round.
Executive Director 000 Performance conditions may also be replaced or varied if an event occurs or circumstances arise which cause the Committee to Minimum 730 determine that the performance conditions have ceased to be On-target 1,142 cash appropriate.
If the performance conditions are varied or replaced, On-target the amended conditions must, in the opinion of the Committee, be 1,761 total fair, reasonable and materially no less difficult than the original Maximum 2,792 condition when set.
Fixed remuneration including salary, benefits and pension Policy on new appointments Annual bonus Long-term incentive plan The Committee will appoint new Executive Directors with a package that is in line with the remuneration policy in place and Minimum fixed remuneration salary, pension, benefits, no bonus award or LTIP vesting.
On-target cash fixed remuneration, 50% of maximum bonus award, no LTIP vesting.
agreed by shareholders at the time.
Base salary may be set at a On-target total fixed remuneration, 50% of maximum bonus award, 50% of LTIP vesting.
higher or lower level than the previous incumbent.
The Committee Maximum fixed remuneration, 100% of maximum bonus award, 100% of LTIP vesting.
may use its discretion to make individual incentive awards up to the maximum policy headroom limits outlined in the policy table.
Group employee considerations Remuneration forfeited on resignation from a previous employer may be compensated.
This will be considered on a case-by-case When setting remuneration for Executive Directors the Committee basis and may comprise cash or shares.
In general: takes into account contextual information about pay and conditions within the Group, including: If such remuneration was in the form of shares, compensation will be in the Companys shares.
Salary increases for all employees.
If remuneration was subject to achievement of performance Bonus awards for all employees.
conditions, compensation will be normally be subject to Pay ratios between Executive Directors and other employees.
performance either Rolls-Royce performance conditions or actual forecast performance outturns from the previous We are committed to sharing business success across the company.
organisation with all employees participating in a short-term incentive plan.
At more senior levels, remuneration is increasingly The timing of any compensation will, where practicable, match long term and larger proportions are dependent on both Group and the vesting schedule of the remuneration forfeited.
individual performance and paid in the form of shares.
Legacy terms for internal appointments may be honoured, The Committee has not consulted all employees when reviewing including pension entitlements and any outstanding the policy, considering the scale and geography of the population.
If an Executive Director is appointed following a merger or an acquisition of a company by Rolls-Royce, legacy terms and conditions may be honoured.
82 DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Termination Service contracts The Company is required to give Executive Directors 12 months The service contracts for Warren East, Colin Smith and David Smith notice under their service contracts.
Payment in lieu of notice will include 12 months notice of termination from the Company and six not exceed the value of 12 months salary, benefits and pension months notice from the Executive.
The service contracts of Stephen contributions.
Both mitigation and the timing of payments through Daintith, and any new appointee, will include 12 months notice the notice period will be considered by the Committee where from the Company and 12 months notice from the Executive appropriate, as will the funding of reasonable outplacement and Director.
All contracts include the entitlement to paid holidays, sick other professional fees.
Pension benefits will normally be payable in pay, and other standard employment terms including accordance with the rules of the pension plan.
There is no automatic reimbursement of reasonable business expenses.
Taking into account the circumstances, The Chairman and Non-executive Directors have letters of the Committee has discretion to award a bonus in respect of appointment.
No compensation is payable to the Chairman or to performance in the financial year with appropriate consideration of any Non-executive Director if the appointment is terminated early time prorating.
or if they fail to be re-elected at an AGM.
Deferred shares will generally be released in cases such as retirement, death, injury, ill-health, redundancy or any other reason Legacy commitments at the discretion of the Committee.
In these cases any annual bonus awarded immediately prior to leaving may be delivered in cash Any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office rather than deferred shares.
made under legacy arrangements prior to the approval of the Companys remuneration policy may be paid out subject to the For the LTIP, the rules state that unvested awards may be preserved terms of any remuneration policy in place at the time they were at the Committees discretion according to the circumstances.
For these purposes payments include the Company such cases vesting will be at the normal date, subject to the satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an established performance conditions, and prorated to employment award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time in the performance period.
In cases such as death and terminal the award is granted.
illness, the Committee also has the discretion to vest the awards immediately using an estimate of future outturn.
If an individual This provision includes PSP awards granted under the previous leaves after the LTIP shares have vested but during the holding approved remuneration policy.
These awards were subject to CPS period, shares will not be forfeited but the holding period will and relative TSR performance conditions, with vesting only possible remain in force.
The Chief Executive received awards of 180% of salary, and other executives received awards of 150% of The treatment of leavers in ShareSave and the Share Incentive Plan salary including the relative TSR multiplier.
is covered by the respective plan rules.
Change of control provisions in respect of employee share plans are set out on page 187.
Minor amendments Any termination payments will be in line with the remuneration policy agreed by shareholders at that time.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval.
