DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 NOMINATIONS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT 67 Ian Davis Nominations & Governance Chairman of the Nominations & Governance Committee report Committee To review the Boards diversity policy Principal responsibilities Highlights and its implementation.
The key areas of responsibility of the To oversee the principal risk relating Considered and recommended Committee are: to talent and capability.
to the Board: To review the structure, size and To report to the Board on the Groups appointment of Brad Singer composition of the Board and its corporate governance practices and as a Non-executive Director committees, to ensure that they remain procedures to ensure that they remain appointment of Sir Kevin Smith appropriate, and to make recommendations appropriate for a group of the size and as Senior Independent Director to the Board of any changes.
complexity of Rolls-Royce, taking account a ppointment of Stephen Daintith To consider succession plans for of best practice principles.
as Chief Financial Officer Directors and senior executives.
re-appointment of Ian Davis To evaluate any conflicts of interest that as Chairman.
To oversee the induction plans for Directors.
Global governance framework The Chairman and the independent launched.
To review the independence of the Non-executive Directors are members of Non-executive Directors.
this Committee and the Chief Executive Talent, succession and diversity attends the Committee meetings.
To conduct an annual evaluation of the Chief Executive.
At a glance Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Board and Re-appointment of one Non-executive The Board made the following appointments after receiving recommendations committee Director and of theChairman.
from the Committee: composition The appointment of a new Senior Sir Kevin Smith was appointed as Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Science & Technology Committee.
Independent Director and changes to the chairmanship and composition Lee Hsien Yang and Ian Davis were each re-appointed for a second of Board committees.
three-year term subject to annual shareholder approval.
Ruth Cairnie was appointed as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Appointments Appointment of Brad Singer, partner Recommended the appointment of Brad Singer to the Board as a Non-executive to the Board and the chief operating officer of major Director recognising that he was not considered to be independent.
Members of the Committee were involved in the interview process for the The appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer and the Committee recommended Stephen Daintiths Chief Financial Officer.
Succession Talent and succession, diversity This will be a continued area of focus.
Further details of the reviews are shown planning andinclusion reviews.
on page 70. and talent Progress on appointments to theELT.
Members of the Committee were involved in the interview process for the management Chief Operating Officer and the Strategy & Marketing Director.
Board inductions, A schedule of site visits by all Directors A number of site visits had been carried out during the year as part of ongoing training and and feedback from inductions from induction schedules.
It was recommended that each Non-executive Director development the Directors appointed in 2015. undertake at least one site visit each year, in addition to the Board and committee meetings held outside London.
Governance Roll out of the global governance The Groups global governance framework was communicated to all employees framework.
68 DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATIONS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 The Nominations & Governance Committee is satisfied with the Board and committee composition composition of the Board committees however, with the resignation The Committee regularly reviews the balance and composition of of Alan Davies in November 2016 and with the completion of John the Board, its committees and the executive team.
These reviews McAdam's nine-year term in 2017, we have recommended that the identify current needs and consider longer-term succession Board seeks at least one additional Non-executive Director, in planning in light of the Groups strategy.
When reviewing particular someone who can complement the skills and experience Non-executive Director appointments the Committee considers the on the Audit Committee.
current skills, experience and tenure of the Directors and assesses Appointments to the Board future needs against the longer-term strategy of the Group.
In November 2015, ValueAct notified us that it had increased its The Committee recommended the appointments of a new Senior shareholding in the Company to above 10%.
The Committee Independent Director and new chairmen for the Remuneration and discussed the implications of ValueAct increasing its shareholding Science & Technology committees.
We take care to ensure that the and encouraged engagement to understand better its skills and experience of Board members are closely aligned with the management's views, noting that it had requested a seat on the needs of the Board committees.
The Committee agreed that any proposed appointee should In February 2016, Lewis Booth indicated his intention to relinquish be credible and have the appropriate skills and experience tobring his responsibility as Senior Independent Director once a successor valued contributions as a Non-executive Director on theBoard, had been appointed.
He remains chairman of the Audit Committee.
particularly as the Group continued to execute its transformation Sir Kevin Smith, first appointed to the Board in November 2015, programme.
Candidates would be required to follow the rigorous became Senior Independent Director following the AGM in May selection process that applies to all Board appointments.
He is well known by the UK investor base and the Committee Committee also considered the implications of having a shareholder agreed he would be an excellent successorto Lewis.
Sir Kevin was representative as a Director and referred this matter to the Board also appointed as chairman of the Science & Technology Committee for further consideration.
The Committee agreed that any in February 2016.
Sir Kevin has significant aerospace industry shareholder representative would not be considered independent.
knowledge with engineering and manufacturing experience, During January and February 2016, Brad Singer, a partner and gained during a long career at GKN andBAE Systems.
thechief operating officer of ValueAct, met with members of the Committee and with the Executive Directors.
I also had several Brad Singer joined the Science & Technology Committee on his extended meetings with him and took up a number of references appointment to the Board on 2 March 2016. both on him as an individual and from other chairmen who Dame Helen Alexander stepped down from the Board after the AGM haveexperience of having an active shareholder represented in May 2016, having served as a Director for nine years.
succeeded as chairman of the Remuneration Committee by Ruth Cairnie.
Ruth first became a member of the Remuneration Previously, Brad had been senior executive vice president and the Committee when she joined the Board in September 2014.
Ruth has chief financial officer of Discovery Communications Inc, and chief been chairman of the remuneration committee at Keller Group plc financial officer and treasurer of American Tower Corp.
He has also since April 2012 and also sits on the remuneration committee of worked as an investment banker at Goldman Sachs in New York Associated British Foods plc.
She therefore has both the experience andLondon.
The Committee agreed that Brad has an excellent and skills to chair the Rolls-Royce Remuneration Committee.
He has experience of public companies during periods of change, growth and significant financial Alan Davies stepped down from the Board on 18 November 2016. outperformance, particularly in the US where Rolls-Royce has As announced in July 2016, he had been appointed to the Safety & important business interests and a significant shareholder base.
Ethics Committee with effect from 1 September 2016.
However, The Committee considered that Brad was an appropriate candidate he stepped down from the Board before any subsequent meetings and recommended his appointment.
The Board took account of of that committee took place.
thediscussion of the Committee and of the terms of the proposed Colin Smith will step down from the Board at the 2017 AGM after a relationship agreement between the Company, ValueAct and distinguished career with the Group spanning over 40 years.
BradSinger and agreed that appointing him to the Board was inthe best interests of shareholders.
David Smith will leave the Company on 28 February 2017.
The Committee considered and recommended to the Board the Both Brads appointment and the terms of the relationship terms of appointment for Lee Hsien Yang for a second three-year agreement were finalised and published on 2 March 2016.
Details term subject to annual shareholder re-election.
It also ofthe relationship agreement are available on the corporate recommended my re-appointment, again for a three-year term governance page of the Group's website, www.
subject to annual shareholder re-election.
A full evaluation of my Stephen Daintith will join the Board as Chief Financial Officer in performance as Chairman was carried out by Lewis Booth, as Senior Spring 2017.
Details of his career, skills and experience can be found Independent Director, prior to confirmation of my re-appointment.
Board committee membership is set out on page 54.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 NOMINATIONS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT 69 The Inzito Partnership Inzito was engaged as the search consultant making preparations to report under the Gender Pay Gap Reporting for the Chief Financial Officer.
A candidate brief, which included Regulations by April 2018. technical and personal qualities and skills, was drawn up by the The Group acknowledges the challenges of increasing diversity Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director and shared within our industry.
We are working closely with the Royal Academy with members of the Nominations & Governance Committee.
Inzito of Engineering's Diversity Leadership Group which has launched drew up a list of potential candidates and the Chief Executive and working groups to drive change and challenge the status quo for Group Human Resources Director interviewed a number of them diversity and inclusion in the engineering sector.
We have before presenting a shortlist of candidates for members of the representation on its steering group and support four of its five Committee to interview.
Formal and informal references were action groups.
takenon the shortlisted candidates and Stephen Daintith met all members of the Committee, and met with the Chief Executive and We give full and fair consideration to all employment applications Chairman several times, before his appointment was recommended from people with disabilities, and support disabled employees, to the Board.
The terms of his appointment were also considered helping them to make the best use of their skills and potential.
Our and agreed by the Remuneration Committee in principle before high performance culture training continues to be rolled out across theBoard formally appointed Stephen.
the globe to help employees increase their personal effectiveness.
Each of the Directors continues to be effective and able to devote In March 2016, the Group Human Resources Director and Head of sufficient time to the business of the Company and the Global Talent Management shared with the Committee key diversity Nominations & Governance Committee will continue to keep the and inclusion achievements during 2015 and provided current Board's composition under review.
global demographics and key elements of the diversity and inclusion strategy and priorities.
Diversity and inclusion Non-executive Directors took positive action to meet a number of employee groups throughout the year to support these priorities.
This The Board and Committee actively support the Groups diversity included: an informal lunch with the Womens Group in Dahlewitz, andinclusion vision.
Germany, on International Womens Day: dinner with high potential Rolls-Royce is a founder patron of the FTSE 100 Cross-Company women in Derby, UK in May: and a meeting with representatives of Mentoring Programme which aims to widen the pool of eligible the six employee resource groups ERGs in North America during the female board candidates.
Following the departure of Dame Helen Board's visit to Indianapolis in September.
In addition, individual Alexander the percentage of women on the Board has fallen to members of the Committee took opportunities to support various 23% 2015:29%.
Appointments will always be made on merit, activities by the ERGs in the UK, Germany and the US.
however, forfuture Board appointments the Committee will instruct search consultants to identify as a priority female Diversity and inclusion strategy and priorities candidates who meet the skills and experience brief.
As with previous Board appointments, we will consider candidates from Senior leaders committing to a diverse and inclusive thewidest possible pool and will only engage search firms that environment.
havesigned up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Hiring diverse talent at all levels.
The Board has noted the Hampton Alexander recommendation for FTSE 100 companies to have at least 33% of the Continual improvement in the way we act and behave positions in their executive pipeline filled by women by 2020. to ensure full inclusion of all our talent and enable them to perform at their best.
Our global diversity and inclusion policy and anti-discrimination Engage and retain our best talent.
policies aim to ensure that all employees are treated with dignity and respect and are empowered to deliver without fear of bullying Provide equal opportunity and advance diverse talent on merit.
or harassment for more information see pages 42 and 43.
This has introduced an undeclared category to our gender reporting in 2016.
70 DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATIONS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 their colleagues.
We regard these site visits as an important part Succession planning and talent management of continuing education as well as an essential part of the induction A principal risk to the business is the inability to attract, retain process.
They help Directors understand the business through andincentivise talented individuals to deliver our strategy.
The directexperience of seeing processes in operation and by having Committee is responsible for reviewing talent, capability and discussions with a range of employees.
succession at the most senior levels of the business.
A summary of the visits carried out by individual Board members and Board committee in 2016 as referred to in the Safety & Ethics Following the announcement of the senior management and Science & Technology Committee reports is shown on restructuring in December 2015, and as part of our continuing page 71. transformation programme, there has been an increase in focus on our succession planning.
Both the Committee and the Board held Further training is available for all Directors, as appropriate, deep dives in these areas during 2016.
Our desire to increase including presentations by the ELT on particular aspects of diversity, as described above, influences our approach to succession the business.
The transformation team also presented to planning, training and development.
Non-executive Directors on progress, and the Board undertook The Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director led the Groups ethics training.
discussions on succession planning with the Board and the Committee There is a procedure for Directors to take independent professional in March and September 2016 respectively.
In March, the Board advice at the Companys expense and every Director has independent considered skills and capability gaps at ELT level and succession access to the Company Secretary, who reports to the Chairman.
planning both immediately below ELT level and those that would be ready to take up an ELT position in one or two moves.
A new senior Governance management structure was announced in December 2015 including the intention to appoint a new Chief Operating Officer.
It was also A core element of our transformation is world-class governance: agreed that a new role, Strategy & Marketing Director, would be excellence in how we govern our business, manage risk, and make added to the ELT.
It was agreed that it was appropriate to recruit these sure standards are maintained throughout the Group.
roles from outside the business to help bring a fresh perspective.
Members of the Committee were involved in the appointments of The Group's governance framework, which was approved by the Simon Kirby as Chief Operating Officer and Ben Story as Strategy Committee in December 2015, was deployed Group wide during & Marketing Director.
It was supported by an all-employee communications campaign which included a video message We recognise that succession planning includes nurturing our own fromthe Chief Executive and a dedicated intranet site.
Rolling out talent pool and giving opportunities to those who are capable of the framework has been an important step in clarifying the Groups growing into more senior roles.
Therefore, the review by the expectations of its employees and supports the work being Committee in September focused on the executive pipeline from undertaken on transformation.
which the future leaders of the Company were likely to emerge, both for ELT roles and other key management areas.
The Board also The framework outlines the rules which apply to all Rolls-Royce had dinner with a number of senior managers below ELT level in employees and is intended to guide them in making the right November 2016 and certain Non-executive Directors attended the decisions on behalf of the Group, faster and with more confidence.
senior leadership conference during the year to meet and exchange In particular, the framework: views with key managers.
Describes the Group's organisational structure, accountabilities and responsibilities.
Board inductions, training and continuing development Clarifies decision-making authorities.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that new Gives employees an overview of our mandatory policies, Directors have a thorough and appropriate induction.
Each newly processes and procedures.
appointed Director has a structured induction programme and receives a comprehensive data pack providing detailed information The Committee was kept up to date on progress as the framework on the Group.
Each induction is based on the individual Directors was rolled out across the Group.
The framework is kept under requirements and includes meetings with all other Directors and review and further enhancements will be communicated to members of the ELT as well as other relevant employees, committee employees in 2017. attendees and external advisers.
All Directors visit the Groups main operating sites as part of their induction and are encouraged to Conflicts of interest and independence make at least one visit to other sites each year throughout their tenure.
Often these visits take place in small groups of two or three The Committee reviews the Non-executive Directors external Directors together as it is often useful to have a common interests every year to determine whether each of them may understanding and insight into an area of the business that may be continue to be considered independent.
In undertaking the less well known to one or more of them.
It also gives the Directors evaluation the Committee considers, among other things, the the chance to spend time with their fellow Board members in a less criteria set out in the Code.
formal setting which helps them to understand the concerns of DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 NOMINATIONS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT 71 The Committee also reviews any potential conflicts of interest as Looking forward they arise and recommends to the Board whether these should be authorised and whether any conditions should be attached to any We have made good progress on our priorities for 2016 which were authorisation.
Additionally, an annual review of conflicts of interest to develop succession plans, to ensure that the transformation of is undertaken to ensure that any previously authorised conflicting the business was adequately supported below Board level, and to situations are still dealt with appropriately.
oversee the development and roll out of the internal governance framework.
These areas will continue to be priorities for the Brad Singer, as a representative of a significant shareholder, is not Committee in 2017. considered to be independent.
As noted on page 68, the conflict of interest is managed by a relationship agreement between the Company, ValueAct and Brad Singer.
Ian Davis Having carried out the review, the Committee advised the Board Chairman of the that it considered that each of the remaining Non-executive Nominations & Governance Committee Directors, with the exception of the Chairman for whom the test isnot appropriate, continued to be independent.
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that each of the Director's potential conflicts of interest be authorised, without imposing anyconditions.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' SITE VISITS IN 2016 Derby UTCs Manufacturing W ashington UK Nottingham Technology Centre Tyne and Wear Montreal UK Coventry UK UK 10 Canada 8 3 2 4 lesund Ulsteinvik Norway 4 Hong Kong Indianapolis 1 USA 10 Crosspointe Reston Seletar and USA UTC ARTC sites 3 Singapore 4 Friedrichshafen Germany 6 Board members present Advanced Remanufacturing & Technology Centre HAESL
