DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 59 Corporate governance The Board The role of the Board Providing leadership, knowledgeand experience Overseeing and monitoring business performance, tosupport and guide the ELT.
internal controls, governance and risk management.
Setting Group strategy and objectives after Shareholder engagement.
considering recommendations from the ELT.
Oversight of principal risks competitive position, political risk, programme delivery.
Chairman Effective running of the Board and its Managing the Board to ensure adequate Ian Davis committees in accordance with the highest timefor discussion of all agenda items.
Ensuring the Board receives accurate, Setting the Board agenda.
Senior Independent Director Being available to major shareholders if they Conducting an annual review of the Sir Kevin Smith haveconcerns which have not been resolved performance of the Chairman.
throughthe normal channels of the Chairman, Providing a sounding board for the Chairman.
Chief Executive or other Executive Directors.
Other Non-executive Directors Providing skills and external experience to support theChairman and management.
Chief Executive Overseeing the day-to-day operation Establishing and maintaining formal Warren East of the Groups business.
and appropriate delegations of authority.
Developing and implementing the Groups Maintaining a close working relationship strategy as approved by the Board.
Other Executive Directors Providing management perspective to support theBoards decision making.
Company Secretary Overseeing the design and effectiveness of the Providing governance, advisory and Pamela Coles Groups governance arrangements.
Acting as Secretary to the Board and itscommittees, Assisting the Nominations & Governance ensuring compliance with Board procedures Committee with plans for Directors induction andcorporate governance requirements.
The Board committees Nominations & Governance Remuneration Audit Safety & Ethics Science & Technology Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Board composition Remuneration policy Financial reporting S&E governance framework R&T R&D strategy Succession planning Incentive design and setting Internal controls S&E policies andpractices E&T processes of targets Board nominations Risk management S&E training Technology capabilities Executive remuneration andskills Board evaluation Internal audit S&E risk management review R&D investments Corporate governance External auditor S&E investigations Technology trends and risks Sustainability Oversight of principal risk Oversight of principal risks talent & capability IT vulnerability, Oversight of principal risk Oversight of principal risks business continuity, disruptive technologies compliance, product failure market & financial shock & business models 60 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Company Secretary, the matters reserved to the Board, the terms of The Board and its committees reference of each of the Board committees, and details of Directors The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for the direction, induction and training have been agreed by the Board and are set management and performance of the Company.
out in our Board governance document available on the corporate governance pages of the Groups website www.
Details of the Board are set out on pages 54 to 57.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-executive Appointments and re-appointments Directors letters of appointment are on pages 91 and 92.
Details of their remuneration and share interests are set out in the Directors The Board was advised by the Nominations & Governance Committee remuneration report on pages 83 to 95. regarding all Board changes.
Details of the appointment process, The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, and the changes made during the course of the year, are set out in the generally being those items which affect the shape, risk profile or Nominations & Governance Committee report on pages 67 to 71. strategic direction of the Group, as well as the key financial items.
The Board reviewed the schedule of matters during the year.
Independence of the Non-executive Directors The Board has established certain principal committees to provide The Board conducts a review of the independence of the dedicated focus on particular areas, as set out on the previous page.
Non-executive Directors every year, based on the criteria in the The chairman of each committee reports to the Board on the Code and following consideration by the Nominations & committees activities after each committee meeting.
Governance Committee as detailed on pages 70 and 71.
This review In addition to the Boards principal committees, it has established a was undertaken in November 2016 and the Board concluded that all sub-committee of Directors who each hold an appropriate level of the Non-executive Directors, with the exception of Brad Singer, UK national security clearance for the purpose of receiving and remained independent in character and judgement.
considering, on behalf of the Board, any UK classified information Brad Singer is a partner and the chief operating officer of ValueAct, relating to the Group's programmes and activities.
a major shareholder, and therefore not considered to be an Matters that are not reserved to shareholders, the Board or one of its independent Non-executive Director under the provisions set out in committees are the responsibility of the Chief Executive who has the Code.
The Company has in place a relationship agreement to established and maintains a schedule of delegations of authority to manage any conflicts of interest that arise from his connection to members of the ELT and other management.
A summary of the relationship agreement is on the corporate governance pages of the Groups website.
Key matters reserved to the Board: The Code does not consider the test of independence to be The Groups long-term objectives, strategy and risk appetite.
appropriate to the chairman of a company.
However, Ian Davis did meet the Codes independence criteria upon his appointment as Shareholder engagement and general meetings.
His other external commitments are described on page 54.
Overall corporate governance arrangements including Board and committee composition, committee terms of reference, and Directors independence and conflicts of interest.
Directors indemnities and insurance Internal controls, governance and risk management frameworks.
In accordance with the Articles, and to the extent permitted by law, the Company has entered into separate deeds of indemnity with its Changes to the corporate or capital structure of the Company.
Directors, which were in force during the financial year and remain in Annual report and accounts, and financial and regulatory force at the date of this report.
The Company also maintains directors announcements.
and officers liability insurance cover which also extends to directors of subsidiary companies.
Significant changes in accounting policies or practices.
Policy on, and declarations of, payments to shareholders.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Annual budgets and financial expenditure and commitments above The Company is subject to the principles and provisions of the Code, levels set by the Board.
a copy of which can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils Remuneration policy and remuneration of Directors and FRC website, www.
The Board considers that the Company complied in all material New share incentive or pension plans or major changes to existing plans.
respects with the Code for the whole of the year to 31 December 2016.
The Board has agreed that arrangements by which staff may The way in which principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code raise concerns in confidence are considered and reviewed by the the Code are applied, including the role of the Board and the Safety & Ethics Committee.
Any matters relating to financial Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and reporting, the integrity of financial management or fraud are also reported to the Audit Committee.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 61 Board and committee meetings held in 2016 NG R NG NG R R NG NG A R A A R R SE A NG ST SE R A B AGM SE IAB A SE ST R B B B B B B B B B R B B B B January February March April May June July August September October November December Committee meetings Other meetings NG Nominations & Governance Committee SE Safety & Ethics Committee B Board R Remuneration Committee ST Science & Technology Committee IAB International Advisory Board AGM Audit Committee Denotes unscheduled meeting Annual General Meeting A The unscheduled meetings of the Board in November and The unscheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee December were held to consider progress towards reaching held in August and September were to consider: agreements with investigating authorities in UK, US and Brazil.
Remuneration packages for the new Chief Financial Officer The unscheduled meeting of the Nominations & Governance and Chief Operating Officer.
Committee held in April was to consider the appointment of Sir Kevin Smith as Senior Independent Director.
Feedback from the initial shareholder consultation on remuneration policy proposals.
The unscheduled meeting of the Audit Committee in April was to consider the audit tender process and the potential consequences Some of the Directors were unable to participate in the of IFRS 15 for the Groups accounting.
unscheduled meetings of the Nominations & Governance Committee held in April and of the Remuneration Committee held in September as these meetings were called on short notice.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE AT SCHEDULED MEETINGS Nominations & Science & Board Governance Remuneration Audit Safety & Ethics Technology Directors as at 31 December 2016 11 meetings 5 meetings 6 meetings 5 meetings 4 meetings 2 meetings Ian Davis 11 11 5 5 Warren East 11 11 Lewis Booth 11 11 5 5 5 5 2 2 Ruth Cairnie 11 11 5 5 6 6 2 2 1 Sir Frank Chapman 10 11 4 5 5 6 4 4 Irene Dorner 11 11 5 5 5 5 4 4 Lee Hsien Yang 11 11 5 5 5 5 4 4 2 John McAdam 11 11 5 5 6 6 3 4 Bradley Singer appointed 2 March 2016 8 8 2 2 Colin Smith 11 11 David Smith 11 11 Sir Kevin Smith 11 11 5 5 6 6 2 2 3 Jasmin Staiblin 10 11 4 5 1 2 Former Directors Dame Helen Alexander left 5 May 2016 5 5 1 1 2 2 1 1 Alan Davies left 18 November 2016 8 10 3 4 3 4 1 Sir Frank Chapman missed the meetings of the Board, Nominations & Governance Committee and Remuneration Committee in November for medical reasons.
2 John McAdam missed the meeting of the Safety & Ethics Committee in December due to an unavoidable diary clash with a Board meeting of Rentokil Initial plc where he is Chairman.
3 Jasmin Staiblin missed the meeting of the Nominations & Governance Committee in July and the Board meeting in December due to needing to attend to urgent business at Alpiq Holding AG, where she is CEO.
She also missed the meeting of the Science & Technology Committee in May due to unavoidable last-minute travel disruptions.
62 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 The Boards areas of focus Matters considered Outcome Key areas of focus for 2017 Strategy and risk Progress with the transformation programme.
Significant senior management headcount reductions, Continued oversight of execution of tracked to underlying cost base.
transformation plans to deliver targeted benefits.
Board priorities and financial assumptions over the Strategic options clarified.
Update of strategic priorities The Groups vision, values timeframes of three, five and ten years, including key underway to evaluate the best way to deliver enhanced and culture.
Execution of strategic risks, assumptions and sensitivities.
shareholder value in the long term.
Put option exercised by SENER regarding ITP joint venture.
Agreed valuation for acquisition of remaining stake in ITP.
Execution of transaction and integration of ITP into the Group.
Progress with regulatory investigations, with increased Full co-operation with investigating authorities, leading to Monitoring of compliance with the oversight as potential deferred prosecution agreements agreements with UK, US and Brazilian authorities in terms of the DPAs and leniency DPAs were being discussed with the authorities.
Lord Gold continued to attend Audit and agreement.
Considering the Safety & Ethics Committee meetings to oversee progress conclusions and recommendations onthe ethics and compliance improvement programme.
in Lord Golds latest report, and oversight of actions required.
Principal risks including changes to those risks, the The Board added a further principal risk: disruptive Principal risks will be kept under underlying principal risk indicators and risks related to the technologies and business models.
With this addition the review, and all will be the subject of transformation programme.
Board confirmed that the principal risks remained deep dives by the Board or a Board appropriate.
More focus on talent and succession risks and increased Board time dedicated to updates on major programmes.
EU referendum preparations and outcome.
A steering group was set up to monitor developments Further planning and preparations andreport back to the Board.
for Britains exit from the EU.
Coming into force of EU Market Abuse Regulations MAR.
The Group took appropriate steps, including updating its Monitoring of market best practice policies and procedures, to ensure compliance with MAR.
and any updates or guidance issued.
Succession and leadership Board and ELT composition.
Key appointments made including Chief Financial Officer, Search for at least one new Chief Operating Officer and Strategy & Marketing Director.
Non-executive Director to replace Alan Davies who resigned in Appointments of Sir Kevin Smith as Senior Independent December 2016 and John McAdam Director and Brad Singer as Non-independent who will step down in 2017.
Increasing diversity retained as a key priority for the Group Continued Board oversight and and as a critical part of the transformation programme.
sponsorship of diversity and inclusion within the Group.
Effectiveness of the Board, Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Board and its committees operated effectively in 2016.
Implementing recommendations The Chairman and Chief Executive received constructive made by Independent Audit as part feedback on their respective performance and the Board of Board effectiveness review.
See supported their continuation in office.
Shareholder engagement and governance Terms of a relationship agreement with ValueAct Relationship agreement in place.
Continuing constructive following its acquisition of a significant shareholding engagement with ValueAct and andthe appointment of Brad Singer to the Board.
other significant shareholders on appropriate matters.
Investor communications, feedback and governance Increased transparency in investor briefings.
The Continue shareholder engagement events and roadshows in the UK and US.
governance events were well-received with good input to build investor confidence.
A further governance event will be held in 2017.
Private meetings with institutional shareholders to Directors met with several institutional shareholders upon We will maintain an active discuss particular areas of interest to them.
Topics included sustainability and shareholder engagement our ethics and compliance improvement programme.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 63 Matters considered Outcome Key areas of focus for 2017 US governance under Special Security Agreement SSA Arrangements with the Rolls-Royce North America RRNA Following the retirement of James Guyette in 2015, the role Maintaining a good dialogue with, board, whose members are appointed with the approval of President & CEO of RRNA is no longer a Board position.
and support to, the RRNA board as of the US Department of Defense to oversee and ensure However, arrangements with the RRNA board continue to required.
compliance with laws and regulations concerning security be effective.
These arrangements permit the Group, under and technology controls.
the SSA, to operate US security-cleared facilities and participate in classified technology development and production programs.
Financial performance Financial performance and outlook, liquidity and funding Regular reports on financial performance and outlook Regular oversight of financial including discussions with credit rating agencies.
Group liquidity and funding performance against 2017 budget, kept under review considering strategic priorities, the and of funding plans against strategic Companys credit ratings and contingencies.
The Board was briefed on the impact of IFRS 15 on the Ongoing oversight of preparations Groups accounting for revenue and profit, by reference to for introduction of IFRS 15 in 2018. a notional restatement of 2015 results which was shared with investors at the Groups capital markets event in November 2016.
The Groups management information MI and A progress update on the project was provided, including a Progress on further improvements forecasting project.
demonstration of the new MI system and KPI dashboard will be monitored in 2017. being used by management.
Financial support for critical supplier.
Reviewed and approved a package of financial support to a The Groups risk management key supplier to ensure continuity of materials supply for measures to ensure continuity of some of the Groups programmes.
supply of critical components and materials will remain an area of Audit Committee review as part of its oversight of the business continuity principal risk.
The Board resolved to recommend to shareholders the Not applicable.
appointment of PwC as the Companys auditor with effect from the 2018 AGM, following recommendations from the Audit Committee.
Review of the Groups pension arrangements.
A merger of four of the Groups pension schemes and the The level of funding of the remaining transfer of one scheme to an insurer.
schemes will remain under review.
Operational performance Civil large engine programmes.
The Board undertook detailed reviews of several of the More detailed Board oversight will Groups civil large engine programmes with the Civil continue in 2017 as the business Aerospace executive team to understand managements moves through key milestones in plans to address operational challenges faced.
its new product introduction programmes and transformation activities.
Product incidents in service and HS&E.
Received reports from the Chairman of the Safety & Ethics Continued tone from the top Committee and executive management on product-related emphasising the paramount incidents in service and HS&E matters.
importance of product and people safety, particularly during a period of transformation.
Overall score in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Progress towards published targets improved in 2016. for 2020 will be monitored in 2017.
Payments to shareholders The Groups policy on shareholder payments.
Agreed to maintain payments at the level established in Policy to be kept under review in early 2016. balancing the near-term strategic and operational funding needs with the desire to return in future to a position of year-on-year progressive growth in payments to shareholders.
64 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Information included in the Directors report Internal control and risk management Certain additional information that fulfils the requirements of the In developing our internal governance framework see page 70 Corporate governance statement can be found in the Other statutory we looked at how the Groups risk management and internal control information section on pages 186 to 189 and is incorporated into, and systems work together.
You can read about our risk management forms part of, this Corporate governance report by reference.
system on page 48 and details of our internal control system are in the Audit Committee report on pages 100 and 101.
As noted on page 48, these systems are designed to manage, rather than Board induction and development eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve objectives and so can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Newly-appointed Directors follow a tailored induction programme, misstatement or loss.
The Board, with the advice of the Audit facilitated by the Company Secretary, which includes dedicated time Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management with Group executives and scheduled trips to a variety of business and internal control systems, including controls in relation to the operations.
All Directors are encouraged to undertake additional financial reporting process, for the year under review and to the training and to visit the Groups facilities.
Details are set out in the date of this report.
The Board confirms that the Group continues to Nominations & Governance Committee report on page 70. be compliant with the standards in the Code and with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules in this regard.
Financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are reported at least quarterly.
Actual results, at both a business and a Group level, are reported monthly against budget and variances are kept under scrutiny.
Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that Board visit to Indianapolis their routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that results are properly stated in accordance with Group requirements.
The Board meeting in September was held in Indianapolis, US, In addition, for annual reporting, business presidents and finance where the Board visited a number of our key sites in the area directors are required to confirm that their business has complied and met the local management teams, the RRNA board and with the Groups finance manual.
This contains the Groups key US-based employee resource groups.
They also reviewed accounting policies.
progress with the programme to transform and revitalise our legacy plant and took the opportunity to celebrate the opening of the new Rolls-Royce Development Centre building.
The Executive Leadership Team ELT Science & Technology Committee met the teams working on our advanced technology programmes and received detailed The ELT is an executive-level forum of the Groups most senior briefings and practical demonstrations.
You can read more on leaders, chaired by the Chief Executive.
It comes together to this in the Science & Technology Committee report on pages communicate, review and agree on issues and actions of 110 to 112.
It helps to develop, implement and monitor strategic and operational plans, considers the continuing applicability, appropriateness and impact of risks, leads the Groups culture and aids the decision-making of the Chief Executive in managing the business in the performance of his duties.
Chris Barkey Mark Gregory Andreas Schell EXECUTIVE Group Director Engineering General Counsel CEO Power Systems LEADERSHIP TEAM & Technology Harry Holt Eric Schulz Marion Blakey President Nuclear President Civil Aerospace President & CEO Rolls-Royce Mary Humiston Colin Smith CBE North America Group Human Resources Director Group President until 4 May 2017 Chris Cholerton Simon Kirby David Smith President Defence Aerospace Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Warren East CBE until 28 February 2017 Mikael Makinen Chief Executive President Marine Ben Story Strategy & Marketing Director Stephen Daintith Chief Financial Officer from Spring 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 65 Counsel, Director of Internal Audit and the Director of Compliance Board evaluation and Risk.
The Board and its committees undertake an annual evaluation of The 2015 review specifically focused on strategically important their effectiveness.
In 2016, Independent Audit was again asked to questions and challenges for the Board.
The 2016 review noted that conduct an external evaluation, following up from its reviews in improvements had been made on the provision of information, 2014, when first appointed, and 2015.
Independent Audit also although more could be done to ensure greater clarity on the supported the Audit Committee in the assessment of KPMG as mediumto long-term development plans.
The review recommended external auditor for 2015.
It does not have any other connection to that more time be spent on culture and behaviours, while noting that the Company.
the Board was better informed on talent and succession.
The evaluation included a review of Board and committee papers Having gone through the effectiveness review described above, the and interviews with the Directors and the Company Secretary.
Directors are satisfied that the Board and each of its committees Interviews were also held with other senior managers who interact operated effectively during 2016. regularly with the Board and its committees including the General PROGRESS ON KEY AREAS IDENTIFIED Key areas identified in 2015 Progress in 2016 Focus for 2017 Focusing Board The Board gave more focus to the transformation agenda and to the More focus is needed on the main debate and improving near-term strategy with detailed discussions on cash, cost reductions, drivers, levers and challenges faced.
Board processes status of key engine programmes and operational performance.
The Company Secretarys office worked with the ELT and other Board The work during the year on Board paper authors, providing training, tools and templates which resulted papers has resulted in welcome in more effective and relevant papers for the Board and committees.
improvements in their content, Less time was dedicated to presentations and more to debate and length and insightfulness.
However, discussion on presented topics.
more work is needed to show, with more quantification and detail, progress against well-defined priorities.
Transformation Particular discussion was held around risks to the transformation More time will be spent discussing andprincipal risks programme identified in the 2015 evaluation.
However, it was agreed the culture and behavioural aspects that these risks were covered in the principal risks relating to major of the transformation programme.
programme delivery and competitive position.
Disruptive technologies and business models was added as a further Disruptive technologies and business principal risk during the year, to reflect the increasing importance of models will be an area of focus for the transformative technologies.
Talent and succession The Board held a deep dive on succession planning in March 2016 and the The Board has been better informed on Nominations & Governance Committee carried out further reviews and senior personnel issues and changes.
worked with the Chief Executive to support his work refreshing the ELT.
Work should continue to strengthen The Board also took opportunities to meet with senior managers below lower management levels.
ELT level and greater participation by senior managers was encouraged in Board meetings.
Further details can be found in the Nominations & Governance Committee report on page 70.
Management The development of new MI dashboards during the year has helped The output from the MI dashboards information MI to provide the Board and management with at a glance indicators of will help support the further the status of key programmes and business and function performance.
improvements identified for Board paper content.
66 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 In early 2016, we consulted with a number of investors on proposed Shareholder engagement changes to the 2016 annual bonus and performance share plan PSP.
The Board recognises and values the importance of building strong In the autumn, the new chairman of the Remuneration Committee, investor relations through a proactive communication programme.
Ruth Cairnie, undertook an extensive consultation programme to Having strengthened the investor relations department in mid-2015, discuss the proposals for the new remuneration policy which will be various initiatives were implemented in 2016 to improve further put to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Feedback from meetings with investors understanding of the business.
This included enhancing over 20 stakeholders helped to determine the shape and quantum of disclosure and transparency through improved reporting and the proposed new policy framework see Remuneration report on engagement, particularly over the forthcoming adoption of IFRS 15 pages 72 to 82. from January 2018.
com contains up-to-date shareholder information, including an online version of the Annual Our investor relations department plays a key role in building stronger, Report, materials from the capital markets and corporate governance clearer discussions with current and potential investors and the events, share price information, news releases, presentations to the sell-side analysts that help inform them.
During the year, the team has investment community and information on shareholder services.
undertaken an extensive investor relations programme involving formal events, site visits, smaller group and one-to-one investor meetings.
The purpose of the larger events is to highlight particular Annual general meeting AGM issues, themes or announcements that the Group believes develop a better understanding of the business or which warrant further All holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at explanation or clarification.
One-to-one meetings requested by which the Chairman and Chief Executive present a review of the key investors focus on areas of particular interest to them, which in 2016 business developments during the year.
This years AGM will be held at included our approach to sustainability and our ethics and compliance 11.00am BST on Thursday, 4 May 2017 at the Pride Park Stadium, Pride improvement programme.
These events also provide opportunities Park, Derby, DE24 8XL.
Shareholders can ask questions of the Board on for shareholders to meet members of the senior management team.
the matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and the running of the Company generally.
All Directors are invited to attend Notable events in 2016 included the capital markets event held each AGM.
Unless unforeseen circumstances arise, all committee in November with updates from the Chief Executive on chairmen will be present to take questions at the AGM.
transformation progress and strategic priorities and the Chief Financial Officer on the impact of IFRS 15 in particular.
The business The Company intends to send the AGM notice and any relevant related leaders each presented the market position of their segments, and papers to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
examples of progress being made were discussed in breakout sessions.
The AGM notice will be available to view on the Groups website.
The team also hosted a significant number of investors and analysts at A poll is conducted on each resolution at all Company general the Farnborough air show and undertook a number of site visits to meetings.
All shareholders have the opportunity to cast their votes in facilities both in the UK and Singapore.
respect of proposed resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by The one-to-one and group meetings provide an opportunity for post.
Following the AGM, the voting results for each resolution are investors to ask more detailed questions that can improve individual published and are made available on our website.
knowledge or clarify areas of misunderstanding.
This is a critical Shareholders unable to attend the AGM can vote on the business of process in ensuring market participants make decisions based on the meeting either by post or online.
a consistent understanding of the information available.
In this way, shareholders should be able to appropriately and fairly value the The Company will propose at the AGM certain changes to the Articles Groups businesses.
relating to shareholders who we have been unable to trace for a period of 12 years.
In line with many other companies, the Articles currently We have held over 600 one-to-one and group meetings, led by the allow the Company to sell any shares held by an untraced shareholder.
Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Investor The changes to the Articles are intended to clarify when a shareholder Relations or members of the investor relations team.
The team has also is considered to be untraced and to allow the Company to use the net published five newsletters throughout the year which provide a proceeds of the sale of an untraced shareholders shares to support the summary of the core news flow from around the Group, updates on Groups community investment and education outreach programmes future investor relations events and questions and answers on various and to fund other good causes at the Companys discretion.
At the topics of current interest to investors.
same time, the Company intends to continue its use of a professional As a matter of best practice, the Chairman and Senior Independent asset reunification agent to search for shareholders who have not kept Director, together with other members of the Board, make themselves their details up-to-date.
available to meet with institutional investors upon request and regularly attend key investor relations events.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director have each met investors in both the UK and the US on scheduled roadshows.
In addition, the Chairman hosted a very well-received corporate governance event in April.
He was joined by all Board committee chairmen who presented the key areas of focus for their individual committees before questions were taken from major shareholders and corporate governance analysts in smaller workshop sessions.
