Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Statement of corporate governance Board responsibilities There is regular dialogue with our discussion of all agenda items, in institutional shareholders.
The Chairman particular strategic issues: Role of the Board and the SID are also available to consult The Board is responsible for setting the with shareholders.
Ensuring the Board determines the objectives and strategy for the Group and nature and extent of significant risks that for monitoring its performance and risk The Board regularly receives an update the Company is willing to embrace in management.
The Board has adopted on interaction with investors and implementing its strategy: terms of reference setting out its duties shareholders to ensure that the Board has and obligations and has defined those an understanding of their views.
In addition, Ensuring the Board has effective matters that are reserved exclusively for its the SID provides a point of contact for those decisionmaking processes and applies consideration.
These include the approval shareholders who wish to raise issues with sufficient challenge to major proposals: of strategic plans, financial statements, the Board, other than through the Chairman.
acquisitions and disposals, major contracts, Encouraging all Board members projects and capital expenditure.
The AGM is used to communicate with to engage in Board and Committee all investors and the Board welcomes meetings by drawing on their skills, Board focus their participation.
experience, knowledge, and where Some of the key areas of focus during appropriate, independence: the year were as follows a number of Board information these areas are also considered by the The Board receives business and financial Developing productive working BoardCommittees : performance reports at each Board meeting relationships with the Chief Executive The Groups Strategy: as well as standing reports on Health & Officer and Executive Directors and Compliance and regulation: Safety Regulation, Market Dynamics and constructive relations between Executive Revenue growth in core and new areas: from the Company Secretary.
In addition, Directors and NonExecutive Directors: Productivity, efficiency and cost reduction: the Directors have access to a Board Technology: information archive containing background Ensuring effective communication with Review of Board composition: and supporting documents for reference in shareholders and other shareholders and Channel strategies: and performance of their duties.
The Directors that Directors are made aware of their Health & Safety.
receive regular updates and training on views: and developments in matters such as corporate Expected focus for the next year: governance and compliance.
These processes Ensuring the performance of the Board, enable the Company to comply with the its Committees and individual Directors is The Groups Strategy: Provisions of the Code requiring the timely evaluated at least once a year and to act Revenue growth in core and new areas: provision of information to Directors.
on results of such evaluations.
Technology: Composition of the Board: Risk management and Succession planning: and Role of the internalcontrols Health & Safety.
 The Board is responsible for maintaining a The Board considers that each of the Shareholder relations risk management and internal control system NonExecutive Directors is independent.
This Communication with shareholders is and for managing principal risks faced by means that in the view of the Board, they given high priority.
A full Annual Report the Group.
This is described in more detail have no links to the Executive Directors and and Financial Statements is sent to all in the Audit and Risk Committee report on other managers and no business or other shareholders who wish to receive one.
relationship with the Company that could Presentations are given following the interfere with their judgement.
The Board, announcements of the half year and full year Board roles atleast annually, reviews and authorises the results, which are available to watch live and Role of the Chairman schedule of Directors' interests, including any on replay on our website.
All information on The Chairmans responsibilities include: potential conflict.
our activities, published financial results and the Annual Report and Financial Statements Chairing meetings of the Board and Each NonExecutive Director plays an can be found on our Company website, general meetings of the Company: instrumental role in the decisions that are www.
made by the Board and its Committees.
Setting the Boards agenda and ensuring They challenge Management regarding the that adequate time is available for performance of the Company with regard to Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 49 Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance the Companys goals and objectives.
They also Board terms of appointment nonexecutive directorships of companies monitor financial controls and the systems of outside the Group.
The Boards approach is Time commitments risk management.
normally to limit Executive Directors to one The terms of appointment for the nonexecutive directorship, for which the NonExecutive Directors require them to The NonExecutive Directors and the Director may retain the fees.
devote a minimum of two days a month Chairman met on a number of occasions to working for the Company although in during this period without the Executive Director induction and training practice they tend to devote more time than Directors being present.
These meetings are On appointment, all Directors take part the minimum requirement.
an important way to develop the working in an induction programme, in which they relationships between the NonExecutive receive information about the Group, the The NonExecutive Directors were required to Directors and to assess the performance role of the Board and matters reserved declare their other significant commitments of Management.
for its decision, the role of the Principal prior to their appointment and the Board Board Committees, the Groups Corporate is informed of any subsequent changes.
In accordance with the requirements of Governance arrangements and the latest The Company announces to the London the Code, the terms of appointment for the financial information about the Group.
This Stock Exchange any changes to their NonExecutive Directors are available for is supplemented by visits to key business directorships on the boards of other publicly inspection at the Companys registered office locations and meeting key personnel.
during normal office hours and they will be made available at the AGM for a period of Board Committees The Board is confident that all its members 15minutes prior to the commencement of the The Board has delegated authority to the have the knowledge, talent and experience meeting and also during the meeting.
Committees to carry out certain tasks as to perform the functions required of defined in each Committees respective terms a Director of the business.
Executive Role of the Senior Independent of reference.
The Committees established by Directors have rolling 12month contracts the Board are shown in the diagram below.
Director and NonExecutive Directors are generally As recommended by the Code, the Board appointed for threeyear terms.
There is also The minutes of each Committee meeting are appointed Orna NiChionna, one of its a clear division of responsibilities between the made available to all directors on a timely independent NonExecutive Directors, to be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
In addition the Chair of each of the the SID.
The SID is available to meet with Board Committees reports to the Board on shareholders if they have concerns that the Outside appointments matters discussed at Committee meetings normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive The Board believes that there are significant and highlights any significant issues requiring Officer or other Executive Directors have benefits to both the Group and the individual the Boards attention.
failed to resolve or for which such channels of from Executive Directors accepting communication are inappropriate.
Board Committees The SID met with the NonExecutive Directors during the year to assess the performance of the Chairman.
Royal Mail plc Role of the Company Secretary Directors may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, Chief at the Groups expense.
All Directors have Executive's access to the advice and services of the Committee Company Secretary, the appointment and removal of whom is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary ensures Board procedures are followed and regularly reviewed and is a source of advice to the Chairman and the Board on implementation of the Code.
Audit and Risk Nomination Pensions Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Board composition At the end of the year, the Board of Royal Mail plc comprised a Chairman, two Executive Directors and five NonExecutive Directors.
Prior to their appointment as Directors of the Company, each of the Directors with the exception of Peter Long had been a Director of Royal Mail Group Limited.
The biographies of each of the Directors, setting out their current roles, commitments and previous experience, are on pages 4345.
50 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Board effectiveness review This external consultancy observed Board The evaluations concluded that the Board The effectiveness of the Board, its and Remuneration Committee Meetings and its Committees are effective but have Committees, the Executive and with supporting materials being provided identified areas for potential improvement NonExecutive Directors and the Chairman by the Company.
The external consultancy that will strengthen the performance of the Donald Brydon was assessed in also conducted individual interviews with Board overall.
Potential improvement or September2014 by an external consultancy, each Board member and other relevant actions will be discussed in May 2016.
Independent Board Evaluation which had stakeholders such as senior executives and not previously had a business relationship managers.
Participants were interviewed with the Company and therefore was not according to a set agenda, tailored for the subject to any conflicts of interest.
The review covered a range of topics the Company was not required to facilitate an including succession planning, operations, external evaluation for this reporting period.
composition, skills and experience, diversity, how the Board works together, governance However, Peter Long, the new Chairman, and compliance.
The evaluation of the Audit believed that it would be prudent to engage and Risk Committee was undertaken by Independent Board Evaluation to review way of an online questionnaire facilitated by the effectiveness of the Board and the Thinking Board.
Internal evaluations were Remuneration Committee.
also carried out for the Nomination and Pensions Committees as part of the normal annual evaluation process.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 51 Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance Audit and Risk the independent company that undertakes The Statutory Audit Services for a UKwide survey to estimate the stamp Large Companies Market Investigation Committee report holding by households.
Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Introduction from the Chair Processes and Audit Committee The Committee has received and considered Responsibilities Order 2014 several papers on the impact of the Code, both with respect to the introduction of a We have complied fully throughout the longerterm viability statement and the year with the Statutory Audit Services increased focus on risk management and Order 2014 issued by the Competition and internal controls, and Managements plans Markets Authority.
to support the Board in meeting the new requirements.
We reviewed the Group Paul Murray Risk Profile at each of our meetings, with Chair, Audit and Risk Committee particular focus on risks where likelihood 18 May 2016 or impact had changed or increased, along with their supporting action plans to manage Committee membership those risks.
We paid particular attention to and attendance cyber security risks and data protection, Eligible Attended the efficiency of resourcing of Royal Mail to attend Attended operations and employment issues facing Total number the business see Principal Risks page 32. of meetings 5 We considered in detail the findings of three Chair Dear Shareholder, internal audit reviews which were rated as Paul Murray 5 5 The Audit and Risk Committee ARC has requiring urgent attention and discussed two fundamental responsibilities which with Management how the concerns are Members inform the work we do as a committee of being addressed.
The first is to review 1 Orna NiChionna 5 4 and recommend to the Board all financial On 15 December 2015, the Company statements and associated disclosures.
received notification of the fine from the Les Owen 5 5 Thesecond is to continually satisfy ourselves French Competition Authority in relation Cath Keers 5 5 that internal controls and risk management to antitrust law breaches by GLS France.
1 Orna NiChionna was unable to attend the Committee processes put in place by the management The fine of 55 million around 40 million, meeting on 14May 2015 due to a prior engagement team are working effectively.
The Committee which was fully provided for in our financial gets independent assurance from the Groups results for the year ended 29 March 2015, Meetings of the Committee were also Internal Audit IA and Risk Management was paid in April 2016.
We have continued attended, where relevant, by the Chairman RM function and also receives regular to focus on our compliance framework of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the reports from the Compliance function as well and its implementation across the Group, Chief Finance Officer, the Director of IA and as the external auditor KPMG across a wide receiving quarterly updates from our RM, other members of senior management range of issues in support of their respective Compliance function.
and representatives from the external oversight responsibilities.
The Board considers that a New external auditor number of the members of the Committee The Committee is further supported by Following a competitive tender process have recent and relevant financial experience, the Risk Management Committee RMC, in 2014, the proposal to appoint KPMG in particular Paul Murray the Chair and a management committee of the Chief as external auditor received shareholder Les Owen.
Executives Committee with a reporting line approval at the AGM on 23 July 2015. to the ARC.
The RMCs key responsibilities RichardPinckard has been appointed the lead Audit and Risk Committee Terms are to drive the monitoring, identification and engagement partner from the same date.
ofReference management of key risks in the organisation.
The full terms of reference for the Management and KPMG have worked Committee can be found on our Alongside myself, the members of collaboratively to ensure a thorough induction website www.
com the Committee are all independent process has been undertaken.
Theinduction aboutus managementcommittees NonExecutive Directors Orna NiChionna, has enabled KPMG to gain a deep  Nick Horler, Cath Keers and Les Owen.
understanding of the business, its systems and processes, and the significant estimates Key areas of focus during the year During the year, the Committee continued to and management judgements required in Matters the Committee considered during the challenge the assumptions and judgements producing our financial results.
The induction year include: made by Management in determining the process has included indepth workshops half year and full year financial results of the with our Finance Shared Services, Payroll Financial reporting, particularly in Company and to assess for appropriateness and IT functions, visits to operational sites considering information presented by their disclosure in the financial statements.
and monthly meetings with Management Management on significant accounting To gain further insight into the basis for and Executives.
judgements and policies adopted in accounting judgements made in relation to respect of the Companys half year and advance customer payments from the public, full year results and the assessment we received in January a presentation from of whether the Annual Report and 52 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Financial Statements were fair, balanced Meeting cycle and agenda items liabilities.
The Committee has concluded and understandable: The Committee uses a meeting tracker, that these companies have the necessary approved once a year, which provides a expertise and resources.
Risk management and internal control, framework for each meeting agenda.
receiving regular updates from IA and RM The Committee also relies on: During 201516 the Committee met on the results of their reviews and the Advice and information provided by five times.
introduction of a strengthened risk and the General Counsel with respect to control selfassessment process: Two meetings mainly focused on the half specific provisions and other contingent year and full year results: and liabilities: and Compliance with the Code, with particular Three meetings mainly focused on internal focus on the requirement to provide a An independent survey of households to audit and risk management.
longerterm viability statement: statistically calculate a distribution using a One of the meetings was held in Germany, 95 per cent confidence limit, which is used Compliance framework, including with specific focus on GLSrelated items.
to estimate the number value of stamps receiving quarterly updates from the that have been bought by the public but Group Compliance team on areas within All regular meetings contain elements of both not used.
their oversight remit: and financial reporting and internal audit and risk management, with reports from the Director The Committee is satisfied that the General Technology, including progress of of Group Finance and the Director of IA and Counsel has, or has access to, the relevant the ongoing major transformation RM being standing items on all agendas.
necessary expertise and resources and programme, the cyber risks facing the that the company conducting the statistical business and the risks associated with Reliance on external and in-house experts surveys also has the relevant necessary data protection.
The Groups actuary, Willis Towers Watson expertise and resources.
Limited, provides expert opinion and Additional areas of focus for next year longterm assumption advice with respect to The external auditor had full access to these Evolving practice in external reporting: pension accounting.
Following a competitive experts and, using their own actuarial and tender process, Aon Limited has been statistical experts, was able to provide Assurance mapping across the Group: and engaged during the year to provide similar further assurance to the Committee on these Prioritised risk reviews.
expertise in relation to other longterm matters.
Key activity in relation to the financial statements The main areas of focus for the Committee during the year in relation to the financial statements were: One-off matters considered due to their materiality or nature Matter considered What the Committee did Ofcom investigation Following the receipt of the Statement of Objections, the Committee sought detailed Contingent liability, see note 25 on page 133 background information from General Counsel and an assessment of accounting On 28 July 2015, Royal Mail received a Statement of Objections setting out Ofcoms treatment from Management.
provisional, preliminary findings in relation to its investigation into the terms on We reviewed and challenged Managements assessment of the issue with reference which Royal Mail proposed to offer access to letter delivery services, alleging a to the accounting standards.
The investigation was launched in February 2014 following a complaint brought by TNT Post UK now Whistl about certain proposed We concluded that it is appropriate to treat this issue as a contingent liability.
changes to Royal Mails Access contracts.
TheCommittee have reviewed and approved the wording of its disclosure.
French Competition Authority investigation The Committee received regular updates from Management on the progress of 55 million, see note 22 on page 131 and note 27 on page 135 the French Competition Authoritys investigation and sought confirmation of the In October 2014, Royal Mail entered into a settlement agreement with the French continuing appropriateness of the level of provision recognised, based on external Competition Authority in respect of the alleged breaches of antitrust laws by one of legal advice.
its subsidiaries, GLS France, during the period before the end of 2010.
On receipt of the notification of the fine, we sought confirmation from Management On 15 December 2015, Royal Mail received notification of the fine from the French that this amount was fully provided for in the prior years results.
In accordance with Competition Authority.
The fine of 55 million around 40 million was fully the payment demand from the French Treasury, the fine was paid on 15 April 2016. provided for in our financial results for the year ended 29 March 2015.
We will continue to seek updates from Management on the status of the appeal of the amount of the fine.
Ongoing matters considered due to their materiality and or the application of judgement The Committee received a presentation from TNS the independent company that Advance customer payments 306 million, see note 19 on page 118 undertakes the UKwide survey of households to establish the level of stamp Included within Advance customer payments is an estimate of the amounts holding for personal use to gain further insight into how the survey is compiled and ofstamps and meter credits that have been sold but not used prior to the the various statistical methods of excluding nonrepresentative stamp holdings.
At March 2016, this estimate totalled 252 million March 2015 We continued to review and challenge the outcome from the statistical survey at 259million.
the half year and full year, along with the judgement made by Management as to Although the relevant survey and extrapolation is conducted by an independent the level at which a stamp holding is considered abnormal.
We compared the level company, the level at which a stamp holding is considered to be abnormal, and of deferred income recognised by Management at each reporting date to ensure a therefore excluded from the estimate, is a judgement made by Management.
Thisjudgement impacts revenue, profit and net assets.
Separately, the auditor used their own experts to review the statistical processes and assess the judgemental assumption.
We concluded that the level of deferred revenue remained appropriate.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 53 Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance Matter considered What the Committee did Royal Mail Defined Benefit Pension Surplus Key longterm assumptions were prepared by the Groups actuary, Willis Towers 3,430 million, see balance sheet and note 10 on page 105 Watson Limited, and benchmarked to prevailing economic indicators and other The valuation of the pension liabilities relies on the estimation of longterm large pension schemes.
The assumptions were reviewed and approved by the assumptions such as RPI CPI and mortality.
Small movements in these Pensions Committee see Report on page 58.
All of these assumptions are assumptions can lead to material impacts on the balance sheet.
disclosed in note 10 to the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions were summarised for the Committee and explanations provided for the returns on In view of the complexity of accounting for pension schemes, significant focus scheme assets, particularly as a result of the liability hedging strategy.
is required on the associated disclosure to ensure that it is fair, balanced andunderstandable.
The auditor used their own independent actuarial experts to confirm that the assumptions used were reasonable and appropriate.
Industrial diseases claims provision To determine whether the level of provisioning in the balance sheet was reasonable, 78 million, see note 22 on page 131 the Committee examined reports from Management and estimates of the gross The Group is liable for claims brought by employees past and current and by provision including the number of claims incurred but not received and the individuals who were employed in the General Post Office Telecommunications associated expected cash outflow, undiscounted calculated by Aon Limited.
division and whose employment ceased prior to October 1981.
The provision covers Thediscount factor used by Aon, as advised by Management, to calculate the the estimate of claims that could be received over the next 2540 years.
Changes to present value of the provision was validated against applicable bond rates.
the provision will impact the income statement and net assets.
We received KPMGs comments on the assumptions and the calculation used to reach the discounted provision and concluded that the approach taken to setting the provision continued to be appropriate.
Impact of changing employment legislation Throughout the year, the Committee received regular updates on relevant see Principal risks on page 32 employment law cases from the General Counsel along with impact assessments The Group has a large workforce and changes to laws and regulations relating to of judgements on the Group.
employment can have a significant effect on the Groups results.
In light of the legal updates, we examined reports prepared by Management to determine whether their interpretation of the potential liabilities for the Group was appropriate.
We concluded that these potential liabilities were accounted for appropriately based on the legal assessments provided by the General Counsel.
Audit Committee effectiveness approved their proposed audit approach.
focus on the execution of the full year audit: This years evaluation of the Committees The Committee also reviewed and approved the preparedness of the business: sufficiency effectiveness was performed through the use the respective engagement letters for the of resources: communication and interaction: of a third party online questionnaire, focusing statutory and regulatory audits.
on the financial reporting environment, risk management oversight, the assurance At the end of the half year review and year While the outcome of the second stage of the provided by our internal and external end statutory audit, the Committee received formal evaluation will not be available until auditors and the quality and content of the reports from KPMG covering significant after the signing of the financial statements, meetings.
The questionnaire identified areas issues identified and discussed during the the informal feedback received and the of potential improvement in the provision of audit visits.
In addition KPMG presented review of reports presented by Management training in financial reporting and corporate updates on their data and analytics approach, and KPMG to their May 2016 meeting have governance and even greater focus on risk and their control findings.
These reports were enabled the Committee to conclude that there governance.
The questionnaire also identified compared with the matters that Management has been appropriate focus on the primary areas of focus for next year.
Feedback had identified, to ensure consistency.
areas of audit risk and KPMG have applied from the questionnaire was reviewed The Committee also held regular private robust challenge and scepticism throughout.
at the Committees year end meeting.
meetings with the external auditor.
Theconclusion of the evaluation was that the Safeguarding the independence and Committee continues to be effective.
The formal evaluation of the external audit objectivity of the external auditor process is being addressed in two stages.
The Committee has a policy in respect of Effectiveness of the external A third party online questionnaire was used nonaudit work which requires Management auditprocess to assess the transition, the audit approach to seek preapproval prior to the engagement In view of their recent appointment as and the half year review.
It was completed of the external auditor for the provision of external auditor, KPMG and Management after our half year results announcement any nonaudit services.
This is to ensure have worked closely throughout the year and responses were sought from individuals that the level of fees earned from nonaudit to ensure a smooth transition.
Meetings who had been closely involved in the audit services and the type of services provided between the senior audit team and Finance predominantly IT, Finance and HR as well as do not impair the external auditors have been held at least monthly, giving the Executive and NonExecutive Directors, audit independence and objectivity.
In general, the opportunity for any concerns to be raised partners and team members.
Improvement external auditor is not approached to perform and addressed on a timely basis.
KPMGs areas were identified in relation to requests nonaudit work.
However, the auditor may be 2015 Audit Quality Inspection Report has also for information and communication of engaged to perform nonaudit services if they been discussed.
There has been significant findings.
These issues were addressed during are uniquely placed to undertake them, or if collaboration between the IT department and the planning of the full year audit.
the performance of the nonaudit services audit team to facilitate the greater emphasis will support a future statutory audit including on data and analytics that had been agreed as The second stage of the evaluation will be the provision of buyer assist due diligence.
undertaken using a mixture of an online Theengagement may follow a competitive questionnaire and meetings with key tender process.
The Committee currently The Committee received a report on the stakeholders following the conclusion of the permits the external auditor to provide areas of audit risk identified by KPMG and first full cycle of KPMGs engagement and will nonaudit services in respect of auditrelated 54 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information services, tax services and other services The system can only provide reasonable, Risk management framework insofar as permitted by auditor independence not absolute, assurance against material The Groupwide risk management rules.
The Committee has delegated authority misstatement or loss.
framework includes risk governance, to the Chief Finance Officer to preapprove risk identification, measurement and assignments up to 25,000, with an annual There is an ongoing process for identifying, management, and risk reporting and sets out limit of 500,000. evaluating and managing the principal risks the topdown and bottomup approach to faced by the Group in accordance with the risk identification for the Group.
Prior to their appointment as the external guidance detailed by the Code, including auditor, KPMG had been engaged to provide financial, operational and compliance During the year the business has: certain nonaudit services.
These include risks, and risks to reputation.
The process the provision of investor relations advice has been in place throughout the year Assessed its approach to risk and share register analysis through KPMG and up to the date of approval of these management in line with the revised Makinson Cowell and tax advice, reviews and financial statements.
Code requirements, reviewed its filings.
The majority of these engagements Risk Management Policy, and further concluded during the year.
Since their Internal control framework developed the management and appointment as external auditor, KPMG have The Group has in place an internal control monitoring of risk within the Group been engaged to perform the iXBRL tagging framework in relation to the Groups including strengthening the Risk & Control of the Groups subsidiary financial statements financial reporting process and the Groups SelfAssessment RCSA process: and and to provide financial due diligence.
Total process for preparing consolidated fees earned for nonaudit services during accounts.
This framework includes an Continued its emerging risk identification 201516 were 313,000 which represented established organisation structure with process through regular structured around 19 per cent of the external audit clear lines of responsibilities, approval dialogue with subjectmatter experts fee.
In addition to the fees earned from the levels and delegated authorities: policies across the business.
Company, KPMG has been engaged by the and procedures to ensure that adequate respective Pension Trustee as external accounting records are maintained and The Groups approach to risk management auditor of the Royal Mail Pension Plan and transactions are recorded accurately: robust is based on the underlying principle of line the Royal Mail Defined Contribution Plan, the quarterly business unit performance reviews management accountability for effective fees for which were 116,000 in 201516. by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief implementation of internal controls to Finance Officer: and a rigorous preparation manage risk as illustrated below.
The Committee also has a policy that process for the consolidated financial results restricts the recruitment or secondment of including technical and disclosure reviews.
individuals employed by the external auditor into positions that provide financial reporting oversight where they could exercise influence over the financial or regulatory statements of the Group or the level of audit and Royal Mail Governance and Three Lines of Defence nonaudit fees.
Royal Mail plc Board Reappointment of the external auditor The Committee has recommended the reappointment of KPMG as the Groups external auditor to the Board for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Chief Executive Committee Audit & Risk Committee in July 2016.
Risk Management Risk management and internal Committee controloverview The Board collectively, including the Committee members, believes that effective risk management and a sound control Senior Management environment are fundamental to the Group.
The Code requires the Board to maintain sound risk management and internal control systems, to review their effectiveness at First Line Second Line Third Line least annually and to report on this review Operational and Business Internal Monitoring and Independent Assurance to shareholders.
A sound system of internal Management Assurance Mechanisms control depends on a thorough and regular Independent evaluation over Primary business as usual Internal monitoring and the adequacy and effectiveness evaluation of the nature and extent to which controls over the risks to the oversight of the fi first line, of risk management, control the Group is exposed to risk.
business, located in the day to through regular reviews, and governance processes day operation.
assessments and dedicated by IA and RM and other oversight functions.
asssurance providers external to the business.
The Groups risk management and internal control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk as taking on manageable 1 RCSA Monitoring and Reporting of Risks and Internal Controls risk is an inherent part of undertaking 1 Risk & Control Self-Assessment the commercial activities of the Group.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 55 Lines of Defence Governance Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance Role of the Committee in assessing the principal risks The Universal Service Obligation daily collections and deliveries performance The Committee routinely assessed the risks that might impact the achievement of the Business Plan, including consideration of whether these should reporting and methodology is assured Review of principal be categorised as a principal risk to the business see Principal Risks on by an independent accounting firm risk areas pages3235.
Committee discussions on risk also covered new and emerging appointed by Royal Mail as part of Royal risks and the interrelationships between the significant risks to the business.
The Committee held deep dive discussions of principal risk areas with risk owners.
During the year, these discussions included: In the carrying out of these activities, the Board considers it has fulfilled its Industrial and employee relations Deep dive obligations under the Code in respect of risk discussions Pensions management and internal controls.
Further Cyber risks details of the principal risks and how they are managed and mitigated can be found on Delivery of efficiency benefits versus maintenance of Quality of Service levels pages 3235.
Speak Up Line known issues in the industry.
During the year Arrangements are in place to enable the Committee evaluated the performance employees to raise concerns about potential of IA and RM and concluded that the function wrongdoings in confidence and to ensure continued to be effective.
independent investigation of such matters.
The IA work programme during 201516 During the year, IA and RM reported to the included more than 40 riskbased reviews in Committee on the number of notifications the UK and over 180 reviews in GLS covering and the time taken to process them through both depots and head office.
The programme the Employee Disclosure Committee EDC.
was focused towards the key business priorities and included: Assessing the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control Business Transformation In addition to the specific constitution, reviews including Parcels and IT meetings, reliance on experts, and focus Service Transformation: areas highlighted above, the Committee uses Major business process reviews including a number of mechanisms to help it to arrive National Returns Centre, Mobile Devices, at its conclusion on the effectiveness of the Operational Resourcing and Overtime system of risk management and internal Payments, Traffic Measurement, and control in the business.
These include: Billing Processes Data Services and large Parcelforce Customers : 1.
Risk governance The Board has delegated responsibility for Continued rolling programme of review specific review of risk and control processes of the basic business controls and to the Committee and the Committee in turn independent validations related to the is supported by the RMC, to help discharge management of Group level risks: and its duties.
The RMC meets to promote and Conformance of key units functions support the establishment, communication to defined Risk Management and embedding of risk management Mandatory Standards.
throughout the Group and to ensure that risks that are significant at Group level are 3.
External audit activity being effectively managed.
External audits and reviews take place during the year to provide Management, the Board 2.
Assurance from Internal Audit and the Regulator with assurance on specific IA and RM provide independent assurance to matters.
Activity includes: executive Management and the Board on the The external auditor performs a statutory effectiveness of the internal control system year end audit: and elements of the risk management process, including compliance with the Risk The external auditor performs an Management Mandatory Standards, and audit of the regulatory accounts as validation of mitigation plans for Group level part of Universal Service Provider risks.
IA and RM establish and agree with the accounting requirements: Committee an annual plan of assignments and activities covering the whole Group, The externally measured endtoend including GLS, based on discussions with Quality of Service is audited by an the Board and Management, and also taking independent accounting firm appointed by into account known issues in the business, Ofcom as part of Royal Mails Designated areas of known importance to the delivery Universal Service Provider condition of the business plan, areas subject to strong requirements: and or emerging regulation or legislation and 56 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Nomination Committee Meetings of the Committee were also of time commitment, committee service attended, where relevant, by the Company and involvement outside meetings: report Secretary, the Deputy Company Secretary For the appointment of a Chairman, to Introduction from the Chair and the Group HR Director.
The Chief prepare a job description including the Executive Officer and other NonExecutive time commitment expected.
A proposed Directors may also be requested to attend Chairmans other significant commitments when required.
should be disclosed to the Board before appointment and any changes to the Nomination Committee Terms of Chairmans commitments should be Reference reported to the Board as they arise: The full Terms of Reference for the Committee can be found on our website To review annually the time required from http: www.
com NonExecutive Directors to fulfil their aboutus  duties: and nominationcommittee.
To make recommendations to the Board concerning: Role of the Committee A summary of the responsibilities of the Formulating plans for succession for Committee in connection with appointments both Executive and NonExecutive to the Board and senior management is Directors and in particular for the shown below: key roles of Chairman and Chief Dear Shareholder, To regularly review the structure, size Executive Officer: The role of the Nomination Committee is to and composition of the Board and to Nominations for the role of SID: review the composition of the Board and plan evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, for its refreshment as applicable with regard experience and diversity of the Board Membership of the Board to composition, balance and structure.
to inform the capabilities required for a Committees in consultation with the particular appointment: Chairs of those committees: As well as succession planning and the To give full consideration to succession The reappointment of any continued evaluation of the balance of skills, planning for Chairman, Directors, Chief NonExecutive Director at the knowledge and experience of the Board, the Executive Officer and senior management conclusion of their specified term of Committee continues to focus on diversity, in the course of its work, taking into office having given due regard to their reviewing leadership attributes, approving account the challenges and opportunities performance and ability to continue changes to senior management and various facing the Company, and the skills to contribute to the Board: appointments within the Company.
and expertise needed on the Board in The reelection of Directors by the future: In 2016, an internal evaluation of the shareholders under the reelection Committee was undertaken by way of a Keep up to date and fully informed about provisions of the Code or the questionnaire.
The evaluation concluded that strategic issues and commercial changes retirement by rotation provisions in the Committee continued to be effective.
affecting the Company and the market in the Companys Articles of Association which it operates: the Articles, having due regard The following report outlines the Committees to their performance and ability to To identify, and nominate for approval membership and attendance, its role, its continue to contribute to the Board in by the Board, candidates to fill Board focus during the year, Directors reelection the light of the knowledge, skills and vacancies as and when they arise: and diversity.
experience required and the need for In identifying suitable Board Candidates progressive refreshing of the Board: Peter Long the Committee shall: Any matters relating to the Chairman Use open advertising or the services continuation in office of any Director 18 May 2016 of external advisers to facilitate at any time, including the suspension the search: or termination of service of an Executive Director as an employee of Committee membership Consider candidates from a wide the Company subject to the law and and attendance range of backgrounds: and their service contract: Eligible Attended Consider candidates on merit and to attend Attended Nominations for the appointment against objective criteria and with due Total number of Director positions on the Boards regard for the benefits of diversity of meetings 1 of subsidiary joint venture Boards on the Board, including gender, main Business Unit Executive Chair taking care that appointees have Committee: and Peter Long 1 1 enough time available to devote to the position.
Nominations for the appointment of Members trustees of the Companys pension Nick Horler 1 1 To ensure that on appointment to the schemes and trustees of the Postal Board, NonExecutive Directors receive a Cath Keers 1 1 Heritage Trust.
formal letter of appointment setting out Orna NiChionna 1 1 clearly what is expected of them in terms Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 57 Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance Key areas of focus during the year Pensions Committee report Committee membership Matters the Committee considered during and attendance the year include: Introduction from the Chair Eligible Attended Assessing the composition of the to attend Attended Board and its Committees following Total number the appointment of Peter Long and the of meetings 3 departures of Donald Brydon and John Allan from the Board: Chair Les Owen 3 3 Succession planning and executive talent management: Members Matthew Lester 3 3 Appointment of Directors and Secretary to subsidiaries and Joint Ventures: Paul Murray 3 3 The annual evaluation of the Terms of Further details of the Committees role, its Reference of the Committee: and membership and the key areas of focus The annual evaluation of the Committee during the year are set out below.
paying particular attention to the frequency of the Committee meetings.
Les Owen Chair of the Pensions Committee Key areas of focus for the next year Dear Shareholder, 18 May 2016 Succession planning and executive The responsibilities delegated to the talent management: Committee by the Board include the review The meetings of the Committee have also and approval of objectives in relation to the A review of the Board structure, size been attended by the Director of Group HR, Royal Mail pension schemes, monitoring and composition: the Chief of Staff, the Company Secretary, performance of these schemes, considering the Director of Corporate Finance, the A review of the balance of skills, recommendations and reports from Head of Pensions Strategy, representatives knowledge, experience, independence and Management in relation to policy and strategy of the Trustee Executive, including their diversity of the Board: and concerning pensions and investment matters external advisers, and representatives from that are significant to the Group, and, where Appointment of Directors and Secretary to the Companys pensions advisers, Willis appropriate, making recommendations to the subsidiaries and Joint Ventures.
Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.
Directors re-election Pensions Committee Terms of Reference The Committee reports and makes The Committee considers the performance The full terms of reference for the Committee recommendations to the Board and to Royal of each individual Director, whether he can be found on our website Mail Group Limited as principal employer of or she continues to be effective and can www.
com aboutus the Groups pensions schemes on: demonstrate commitment to the role and  pensions whether they should be proposed for election committee.
Pension matters which it reasonably at the AGM.
Biographical details of each considers are of strategic importance to of the Directors, together with details of Role of the Committee the Group: their skills and experience may be found Further to the responsibilities outlined in the on pages 4345.
Following a performance Committee Chairs statement, the role of the Pension matters involving a financial evaluation of each Director and the Board as Committee also includes: impact of over 100 million: a whole, all Directors are considered by the Board to be fully effective.
Reviewing and recommending to Material changes to benefits that require the Audit and Risk Committee the rule changes or changes to the pension actuarial assumptions to be used in scheme Trust Deeds: and calculating the accounting charge and pension disclosures in the Companys Material matters in relation to Financial Results: the accounting for the Groups pensions obligations.
Reviewing reports from the Trustee Executive on the Royal Mail pension The Committee is supported by the Pensions schemes financial position, investment Policy Committee, whose members are the performance, administration levels and Chief Finance Officer, the Company Secretary, other activities: the Group HR Director and representatives Reviewing recommendations from the from the CWU and Unite CMA.
Pensions Policy Committee in relation to Royal Mail pensions policy and strategy In 2016, an internal evaluation of the where significant to Royal Mail Group Committee was undertaken by way of and make decisions or report to the questionnaire.
The evaluation concluded that Board accordingly: the Committee continued to be effective.
Agreeing the assumptions to be used by the Trustees relating to funding 58 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information valuations, and providing the Groups Other Committees opinion and feedback on the Trustees Disclosure Committee Statement of Investment Principles: The role of the Disclosure Committee is to Approving, in accordance with the pension assist the Executive Directors in fulfilling their schemes Rules, the appointment, responsibility for oversight of the accuracy reappointment, removal, period of and timeliness of the disclosures made by the appointment and remuneration of the Company in relation to its financial and other Chair of Trustees.
This approval will be reporting.
The Committee meets on a regular given on behalf of the Board following basis during the reporting process and is consultation with the Chair and on the chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
recommendation of Management: and Risk Management Committee Reviewing major policy, regulatory, The Risk Management Committee supports legislative, accounting reporting, industrial the Audit and Risk Committee and meets relations and Governmental issues to promote and support the establishment, impacting the pension schemes as from communication and embedding of risk time to time is necessary, at the request management throughout the business.
of the Board, Management or any member TheCommittee meets quarterly and is of the Pensions Committee, and making chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
decisions, recommendations or reporting to the Board accordingly.
Key areas of focus during the year Matters the Committee considered during the year include: The likely outcome of the April 2015 Valuation Scheme funding and the implications for future benefit design: Investment strategy and risk management: Investment performance and fees and costs: The impact of pension legislation changes: Pensions accounting and treatment of scheme surplus: The annual evaluation of the Terms of Reference of the Committee: The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness: and Pension scheme administration.
Key areas of focus for next year Matters the Committee expect to be considering during the year ahead include: The pension schemes funding valuations, future affordability and management proposals for future benefit design: Investment strategy and risk management: Pensions accounting: Pension scheme administration: and The impact of the 2015 pensions freedoms on the schemes.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 59
