Governance 77 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present the Audit The Audit Committees Committees Report.
This Report key role is to challenge details the work of the Committee and gain assurance around over the past 12 months and the processes that support provides an oversight of the financial reporting, including significant matters that have been the valuation of the property considered during the year.
portfolio: risk management: Main focus of 2016 internal control: and legal During 2016, the Committee has, on behalf of the Board, provided independent scrutiny of the and regulatory compliance processes in place to monitor the Companys in relation to the work of the financial and non-financial reporting including Committee, together with the overseeing the viability statement process.
We have examined the valuation process: financial reporting itself.
overseen the robustness of the Groups systems of internal control as well as its risk Doug Webb management process, and ensured that those Chairman of the Audit Committee processes adequately considered and mitigated against existing and new risks: and probed the performance of both the external and internal audit functions.
Our work is described in more detail in the remainder of this Report.
Areas of focus 2016 New Audit Team ensuring the quality and consistency of the financial reporting: I am delighted to welcome PwC as the Companys external auditor, led by lead audit gaining assurance around the robustness of the valuation process: partner, Craig Hughes, and look forward to the the effective transition to  LLP PwC as the new external auditor: fresh perspective and new challenge that they are already beginning to bring.
A key focus of updating the policy for the use of the external auditor for non-audit services: and our work this year has been to ensure that they assessing the sufficiency of risk management and viability statement processes and were embedded into the business and a case internal controls.
study on how this has been achieved is set out on page 84.
Areas of focus 2017 Committee Members monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, and reviewing and challenging them Each Committee member is independent and as appropriate: has senior office experience in business and we assessing the independence of the valuers and reviewing the robustness of the valuation all have the knowledge to properly discharge our process: and duties, providing independent experience and understanding of the issues under consideration.
evaluating evolving legislation and best practice around audit reform to ensure compliance.
I am pleased to report that the Board endorsed this conviction during its annual review of the Committee when it confirmed that we remained Attendance at Committee meetings effective.
Further information on the Board Doug Webb Chairman 4 4 evaluation is set out on page 69.
Christopher Fisher 4 4 Margaret Ford 4 4 Martin Moore 4 4 Total 4 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 78 Governance Audit Committee Report continued In addition, I believe that Margaret Ford and I believe that it is important for the Committee Martin Moore have the relevant property to meet privately with each of PwC and KPMG experience, and Christopher Fisher and I have to satisfy ourselves that neither has been unduly the relevant financial experience required to influenced by management.
The Committee ensure that the Committees members have met with PwC and KPMG on two occasions competency in the sector that the Company each during the year, and I can confirm that no operates in.
In line with the Code and the concerns were raised.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, Since gaining assurance around the valuation as the Chief Financial Officer of Meggitt PLC process is a key task of the Committee, I also and a Chartered Accountant, I also satisfy consider it prudent to privately meet with the requirement to bring recent and relevant the Companys valuer, CBRE, to ensure I am financial experience, and experience in comfortable with its independence and with the accounting to the Committee.
I met More information on the Committee members with CBRE in January 2017 and have no cause can be found on pages 64 and 65. for concern.
Committee Meetings Discharge of responsibilities To give more flavour to the matters under I consider that the regular discussion and consideration, during the year there were a challenge that the Committee has with number of additional attendees at each of employees, the auditors and the valuer, together our meetings, including the Chief Executive, with the quality of reports and information the Group Finance Director, PwC, the prepared for the Committee, has enabled external auditor, and KPMG LLP KPMG, us to appropriately discharge our duties the internal auditor.
Presentations were also and responsibilities.
given by, amongst others, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Business Information Systems, Procurement and Risk, the Director Doug Webb of Tax and the General Counsel and Group Chairman of the Audit Committee Company Secretary.
Governance 79 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Refreshing the Policy for the Approval of including analysing and challenging the results 2016 principal activities Non-Audit Services following a review of new of internal audit reviews and managements Reviewing the integrity, consistency and legislation and guidance.
plans to resolve any actions arising from them.
key accounting judgements made by management and the external and internal Examining the performance of the external Overseeing matters relating to tax and auditors, to ensure that the quality of the and internal auditors, their objectivity, any potential impact they may have on the Companys financial reporting is maintained, effectiveness and independence, as well as integrity of the financial statements.
including going concern, in the Companys the terms of their engagement and scope of Considering emerging best practice in relation halfand full-year financial statements.
Assessing the independence of the valuer of Ensuring the process followed to support the Chart 1 below sets out the significant matters the Groups property portfolio and gaining making of the viability statement was robust considered by the Committee during the year in assurance around the valuation process.
relation to the financial statements.
Ensuring an effective transition to PwC as the Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups Groups new external auditor.
risk management and internal control systems, Chart 1: 2016 significant matters Significant matter The action taken Valuation of the property portfolio The Committee ensured that there was a robust process in place to satisfy itself that the Valuation is central to the business and is a significant area of judgement for the valuation of the property portfolio by CBRE, a leading firm in the UK and Continental Committee as it is inherently subjective, because the valuer must make assumptions European property markets, was carried out appropriately and independently.
In and judgements in reaching its conclusions.
This is a recurring risk for the Group addition, PwC has an experienced real estate specialist team of chartered surveyors, as it is key to its IFRS profitability, balance sheet portfolio value, net asset value, who provided assurance to the Committee that the processes used by the valuer total property return, and employee incentives.
It also affects investment decisions were appropriate.
The Committee is familiar with the way that management provide and the implementation of the Companys disciplined capital allocation policy.
It is information to the valuer, and having reviewed and challenged the valuers approach, included on the Risk Register and the process risk map as a potential key business assumptions and judgements, remained satisfied that the process was well run with risk.
The Committee is responsible for the assurance of the valuation process and for The Board met twice with CBRE to review, challenge, debate and consider the valuation assessing the independence of the valuer.
process: understand any particular issues encountered in the valuation: and discuss the processes and methodologies used.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also met separately with CBRE to discuss such matters which allowed him to scrutinise the valuation process and ensure the valuer remained independent, objective and effective.
This is an opportunity for a full and frank discussion to take place and the Committee confirms that it is satisfied that the valuation was not subject to undue influence.
On the basis of the above, the Committee concluded that the valuation had been carried out fairly and appropriately, and in accordance with the industry valuation standards, and were therefore suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
For details of the Groups properties and related accounting policies see Note 15 and Note 1 of the financial statements.
For details of the results of the valuation, see Note 15 of the financial statements.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 80 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Significant matter The action taken Accounting for significant acquisitions, disposals and investments The Committee considered the accounting treatment of key, complex transactions During the year, the Company made a number of acquisitions, disposals and during 2016, by reviewing and challenging managements individual papers on investments, some of which were large and complex.
Certain transactions were accounting proposals and judgements.
considered to be significant because of the level of materiality involved and or any Such transactions in the UK included: an acquisition in options over land in South unusual terms or conditions or judgements, and because of the risks inherent in the East England and the Midlands with Roxhill: a swap of hotels in Greater London for accounting process, including when a transaction or revenue should be recognised, a distribution warehouse in Northampton and the disposals of the Bath Road offices and what the appropriate accounting treatment should be.
The accounting treatment of acquisitions, disposals and investments themselves, In Continental Europe, transactions included acquisitions of assets in the Netherlands: is a recurring risk for the Group and is considered to be significant, since an Italy and Spain: and the disposal of land and assets in Continental Europe to the SELP inappropriate approach could cause a misstatement of the Groups financial position joint venture.
The application of the accounting treatment to each particular Following a review of the accounting treatment for these significant transactions, in transaction will be new and unique to the relevant transaction.
particular at what point each transaction should be recognised and the treatment applied to the land options acquired as part of the Roxhill transaction, the Committee was satisfied that all relevant issues had been fully and adequately addressed and that the approach adopted by the Company was appropriate in each case, and in accordance with IFRS.
The Committee challenged the application of accounting policy and internal controls relating to revenue recognition and reviewed reports from the internal auditor, external auditor and management.
The Committee also agreed with managements treatment for the appropriate cut off for inclusion in the financial statements of a number of transactions.
For further details of the accounting treatment applied to such significant transactions, see Note 1 of the financial statements.
Regulatory Changes of information presented in the Annual Further work undertaken by the There were a number of legal, regulatory and Report are robust, and has confirmed to the Committee best practice changes introduced during the Board that the processes and controls around In addition to issues directly affecting year which affected the Committee and its the preparation of the Annual Report are the financial statements, the scope of the work.
The Committee believes it is important appropriate allowing the Board to make the fair, Committees work also encompassed many to comply with the amendments and asked balanced and understandable statement which other aspects, including: the General Counsel and Group Company is on page 105. monitoring the work of the Risk Committee, Secretary to give appropriate training to allow it Viability Statement and discussing specific risk presentations to discharge its duties in this respect.
In addition, The Committee continued to ensure that the which were delivered on key business areas the Committees Terms of Reference which process put in place in 2015 to allow the Board such as the Groups Treasury function and set out its key responsibilities were updated to to make the viability statement, on page 56, the risks associated with Brexit, to ensure that ensure compliance.
was robust, in line with market practice and had risk management continued to be promoted Fair, Balanced and Understandable been correctly and properly followed.
In order to throughout the business: The Directors are required to confirm that they do this, the Committee ensured that the Group considering and assessing controls over IT, consider, taken as a whole, that the Annual Risk Register had been assessed and reviewed including cyber security: Report is fair, balanced and understandable so that the Companys Principal Risks, where and provides the information necessary appropriate, were properly captured in the reviewing and considering internal for shareholders to assess the Companys scenarios which would be used to stress test the control systems: performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee confirmed In order to make this statement, the due to the Board that it was comfortable with the diligence exercise reported last year, was again process followed to make the viability statement.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the controls over the accuracy and consistency Governance 81 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements approving the internal audit programme and The financial reporting from each business unit The Company does not tolerate fraud, impropriety or dishonesty of any kind and reviewing the implementation and progress of is subject to review by a local finance manager recommendations made by the internal audit prior to being submitted to the Group Finance the Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring the Groups anti-bribery and function, together with the independence, function.
The results of each business unit are appropriateness and effectiveness of the subject to further review by the Group Finance corruption policies and procedures contained in the Companys Code of Ethics.
This includes internal auditor: and function.
The results are then consolidated by Group Finance and are subject to various levels its policy on whistleblowing, which sets out the reviewing the Companys procedures on antiprocedure by which employees and any third of review including by senior management.
bribery and corruption and whistleblowing, parties can use a confidential external service to and ensuring that they were adequate.
The draft consolidated statements are raise concerns by email or telephone, whether in reviewed by various individuals including relation to financial reporting or other matters.
Internal control framework those independent of the preparer.
The review The Committee receives an anti-bribery and The Committee is responsible for reviewing includes checking internal consistency, corruption report at each meeting.
There were the internal control systems on behalf of the consistency with other statements, and no causes of concern during 2016.
This review is consistent with the Code consistency with internal accounting records.
and covers all material areas of the Group, The Committee and the Board review the External auditor tenure including risk management see page 56 of draft consolidated financial statements.
As reported in the 2015 Annual Report, Principal Risks and compliance with controls.
The Committee received reports from Deloitte LLP resigned as external auditor at The Committee also monitored the effectiveness management and the auditor on significant the 2016 AGM and was replaced by PwC of the framework through reports from the judgements, changes in accounting policies, following a competitive tender which took place Group Finance Director and Group Financial and other relevant matters relating to the in 2015.
The Board will recommend PwCs Controller, and PwC and KPMG on progress consolidated financial statements.
The financial reappointment to shareholders at the 2017 with internal control activities.
The Committee statements are also subject to external audit.
There are no contractual obligations reviews a schedule which lists all outstanding which restrict the Committees choice of external control points, notes the priority attaching to As reported in the Principal Risks, there is an auditor or which put in place a minimum period them and progress against agreed timeframes on-going process for identifying, evaluating and for their tenure.
There are no current plans to for resolution.
The Committee confirms that it managing the principal risks faced by the Group, re-tender the services of the external auditor.
has not been advised of or identified any failings which has been in place for the year under or weaknesses which it regards to be significant.
review and up to the date of the approval of this The Company complies with the Competition Report.
Risk management and internal controls and Market Authority Order 2014 relating to The Group has established internal controls are regularly reviewed by the Board as indicated audit tendering and the provision of nonand risk management systems in relation to the on pages 68 and 69 of the Governance audit services, as discussed further in the process for preparing the financial statements.
The effectiveness of the Groups following pages.
Various checks on internal financial controls take risk management processes are frequently place throughout the year, including internal reviewed by the Committee.
During 2016, the audits, described in more detail on page 83 Committee received reports and presentations of this Report.
Developments in accounting from the Head of Business Information Systems, regulations and best practice in financial Procurement and Risk, as well as a specific reporting are monitored by the Company and presentation from the Head of Treasury and Tax where appropriate, reflected in the financial on the management of Treasury risks, which statements.
Training is also provided to the was part of a rolling programme to review risk finance teams and the Committee is kept management by the different functions of the appropriately informed.
Previous presentations in this area have included investment and operational risk management.
In addition, and as described in more detail on page 83, the internal audit programme is based on a consideration of the Principal Risks facing the Group which can be adapted during the year to incorporate any new or increased risks which materialise.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 82 Governance Audit Committee Report continued External audit effectiveness External auditor remuneration and In 2016, fees for audit and related assurance In accordance with the Code, the Committee independence services, excluding joint ventures, amounted to assesses the effectiveness of the external audit The Committee considers the remuneration 730,000 and the non-audit fees amounted process on an annual basis.
In order to do and independence of the external auditor at to 40,000.
This supports the Committees this, a formal evaluation takes place each year.
least on a semi-annual basis and approves its conclusion that PwC remains independent and For 2016, as in previous years, senior employees remuneration.
The Committee keeps under objective, and that the level of non-audit to audit who had been involved in the audit were asked close review the ratio of audit to non-audit fees fees is not material.
Further details of these fees, to confirm: to ensure that the independence and objectivity and fees in respect of the audit of certain of of the external auditor are safeguarded.
the Groups joint ventures for which PwC is the whether the process was adequately, The Policy for Approval of Non-Audit Services auditor, are provided in Note 6 ii to the financial effectively and punctually performed by PwC: was refreshed during the year to take into statements.
The three-year average of the nonwhether they considered PwC to be account legislative changes on audit committees audit fees as a percentage of the audit fees to the independent: and and to reflect the Revised Ethical Standards 2016 year ended 2016 is 26 per cent.
Chart 2 sets out for auditors.
The Policy recognises that there are the ratio of audit to non-audit fees for each of whether there were any issues which should certain circumstances where i PwC will not be the past three years.
be raised in connection with the audit process.
used in any circumstances: ii PwC may be used, The Committee is satisfied that PwC continues subject to the approval of the Chief Financial The Chief Financial Officer reported those to provide appropriate levels of scepticism Officer: and iii PwC may be used, subject to the employees feedback to the Committee.
and challenge, and remained independent.
approval of the Audit Committee.
Following discussion of those views, together PwC has provided written confirmation of its with consideration of the Committees own independence to the Committee.
interaction and experience of working with PwC, the Committee considers that the 2016 year-end audit was appropriately planned, scoped and executed.
The Committee is satisfied that PwC Chart 2: Audit and non-audit fees paid to Deloitte LLP and performed effectively as the external auditor  LLP during the year and managements role in the 2016 2015 2014 audit process operated properly and effectively.
Paid to Paid to Paid to As this was PwCs first audit of the Company, the PwC Deloitte Deloitte Committee assessed their work up until the end Audit fees including related assurance services m 0.73 0.71 0.65 of 2016 and first months of 2017 covering the Non-audit fees m 0.04 0.22 0.28 time to publication of this Annual Report, rather Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees % 5 31 43 than the full year-end process, including the audit of the Companys subsidiaries.
However, The above table excludes fees paid to either Deloitte LLP or PwC in respect of joint ventures.
If these the period assessed provided the Committee were included, the 2016 ratio of audit to non-audit fees would have been 6 per cent.
with early insight of the challenge, scrutiny and approach of PwC.
As usual, a full fide-brief of the 2016 year-end audit and PwCs role in it will be carried out in 2017.
Governance 83 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Internal audit During the year, internal audits were carried Once each internal audit is complete, a The Company has a strong culture of risk out on: questionnaire is issued by KPMG to the process awareness embedded in decision making and owner about their internal audit as well as to procurement policies and procedures: robust processes that support the identification the other relevant employees, to ensure that and management of risk.
Assurance of the real-time feedback is collected on the quality compliance with the external communications risk management processes, testing of internal and effectiveness of its audit.
The results of this policy and procedures: controls and approving the internal audit feedback are provided to the Committee along governance of the Companys UK programme continued therefore to be priorities with detailed findings and recommendations joint venture: for the Committee in 2016. of the internal audits themselves.
KPMG also attends the relevant Committee meeting to payroll processes and procedures: In order to determine the internal audit present its report.
programme, as in previous years, the Group accounts receivables policies relating to Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, The Committee believes that the value of debtors, bad debt policies and payment plans, the Head of Business Information Systems, internal audit is enhanced by having a third cash collection and credit control processes: Procurement and Risk and the Director of party perform this function, as this supports the the controls in place within the IT environment Finance reviewed the Group Risk Register independent challenge of management and of the insurance captive: to identify the key risks facing the Group.
gives greater access to expertise than an internal Topics selected for internal audit were based on function could provide.
KPMG has performed business continuity planning and this review, having taken into account those key the role since its appointment in 2007.
In 2016, disaster recovery: risks which had not been subject to recent audit.
new internal auditors were introduced to sales and invoicing processes to ensure The proposed internal audit programme was the Company by KPMG.
To enable them to that key risks associated with the sales and discussed and agreed with KPMG ahead of it familiarise themselves with the Company, the invoicing were appropriately controlled: being considered and subsequently approved by Committee decided not to tender for internal the Committee.
audit services following the expiry of KPMGs developments new sites and refurbishments latest three-year term for the 2017 financial policies and procedures: The Committee believes that both the process year but to reappoint KPMG for a further onefor determining the internal audit programme, the leasing governance framework and the year term.
and the programme itself, are appropriate and processes and procedures in place in relation effective, particularly since there is scope for the In 2017, the Committee will continue to to leasing: Company to react to events, new information follow a risk-based approach to internal employee expenses claims procedures and situations which come to light during the audit.
Items scheduled for review include: specifically for senior staff: and year and include them if necessary.
the acquisitions and disposals process: IT controls, including network, security, support a review of the integration and controls of and cyber security: governance of the SELP Vailog, the Italian trader-developer which was joint venture: the Companys REIT status: the acquired in 2015. processes behind the valuation of the Groups Each of these audits confirmed that these areas portfolio: accounts payable systems including were appropriately controlled, although some an assessment of the new software introduced enhancements were identified which were in 2015: property and professional indemnity entered into the schedule which lists control insurance: insurance captive which is required points which require improvement actions see to be audited annually : the processes by which internal control framework on page 81. the information collated in the Property Analysis report is collected: and financial planning.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 84 Throughout the year, PwC have spent time with PwC has also spent time with CBRE, the PwC Integration amongst others : Groups valuer, to gain additional assurance Ensuring that lead audit partner, Craig Hughes, around the valuation process in order to satisfy and his team from PwC settled in quickly and the Finance Director for Thames Valley and themselves that it was appropriately performed.
became familiar with the Companys business National Logistics, to discuss the Roxhill PwC used their real estate specialist chartered and practices was something that I and my transaction and treatment of land options: surveyor team to aid their work in this area.
colleagues on the Committee, felt important They were also able to take advantage of the General Counsel and Group Company to be achieved as soon as possible in 2016. the common IT environment, processes and Secretary to understand the Groups policies PwC shadowed the work of Deloitte during controls for rental income used by the Group towards anti-bribery, corruption and fraud: the last audit at the start of this year in both across its portfolio and joint ventures, so and the UK and Continental Europe, and attended that they could use computer assisted audit the February 2016 Committee meeting.
the Head of Business Information Systems, techniques to perform substantive procedures The Company also provided a number of Procurement and Risk to consider the to cover all rental income across the whole opportunities for PwC to meet key employees Groups policies on information technology Group increasing efficiencies in the audit.
in the UK and Continental Europe as part of including cyber security.
the transition at the start of 2016.
In addition, PwC and the Groups finance PwCs local teams have also spent time with teams keep in regular contact to ensure that Since being appointed to carry out the 2016 the Finance Directors for Southern Europe, any questions on accounting treatment and year-end audit, members of the PwC team have Northern Europe, Central Europe and the SELP significant judgements are agreed and dealt held regular calls with the Director of Finance joint venture, as well as meeting their teams with as soon as possible.
and Group Financial Controller to increase their to better understand the key issues facing the familiarity and depth of knowledge about the I am pleased with the fresh insight, wide Group throughout Continental Europe.
They continued to hold meetings with experience and different approach brought to They have attended four Committee meetings, members of the Board, Executive Committee, the audit by PwC and look forward to working reviewed key documents and papers and had Heads of Business Units as well as other with them over the coming years.
regular communication with the finance team key teams throughout the Group including to monitor the audit plan throughout the year.
Business Information Systems, Operations, Group Legal and Secretariat, Finance and Tax.
Since PwC did not perform the preceding Doug Webb audit, a fuller review was carried out at the Chairman of the Audit Committee half year than would normally be expected, to flush out any matters or queries ahead of the full-year audit.
Furthermore, detailed controls testing was undertaken when the internal controls were reviewed by PwC, supported by discussions with the internal auditor, KPMG.
PwC was able to develop a close relationship with KPMG which provided more insight into the internal controls in place.
