Governance 73 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Nomination Committee Report I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman of the Nomination Committee Succession planning having succeeded Nigel Rich as Chairman in April 2016. and diversity will be The Committees key role is to ensure that the key agenda items Board has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively and deliver during 2017. our strategy.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, making recommendations about new Gerald Corbett appointments and ensuring that appointment Chairman of the processes are formal, rigorous and transparent.
Nomination Committee I joined the Board in March and was appointed Chairman at the 2016 AGM in April.
The process which was followed for my appointment was fully explained in the 2015 Nomination Committee report so I will not repeat it here.
During the year, the Committee re-appointed Doug Webb and Mark Robertshaw each for a third, three-year term, and Margaret Ford for a second, three-year term.
The Committee considered the performance of each of these Directors, and the review was particularly rigorous in respect of Mr Webb and Areas of focus 2016 Mr Robertshaw, as both would have served six the appointment of the Chief Financial Officer: years as Directors.
It was agreed that each of these Directors continued to be effective, made the size, structure and composition of the Board: and a valuable contribution to the meetings and the proposal for the reappointment of Directors at the 2017 AGM.
continued to demonstrate commitment to the role.
I am pleased to report that each of them Areas of focus 2017 agreed to continue to serve as Directors for further three-year terms.
the Companys diversity policy: In April, we announced that Justin Read would succession planning for the Non-Executive Directors: and be retiring from the Board and his position as the size, structure and composition of the Board.
Following an extensive process, as explained on page 74 and 75, we were pleased to welcome Soumen Das to the Board as our new Chief Financial Officer in Attendance at Committee meetings January this year.
1 Gerald Corbett Chairman 3 3 2 The Committees role in considering the Nigel Rich Former Chairman 3 3 succession planning needs of the Board and Christopher Fisher 5 5 its Committees as well as understanding the 3 Margaret Ford 4 5 succession plans for the Leadership Team, David Sleath 5 5 should ensure that a strong pipeline of talented Doug Webb 5 5 individuals is available to support the Company, Total 5 meet its future business objectives and achieve its strategic goals.
For 2017, longer-term 1 G erald Corbett joined the Nomination Committee on his appointment to the Board in March 2016. succession planning for the Non-Executive 2 N igel Rich did not attend the Nomination Committee meetings when his own succession was considered.
He stepped down Directors will be a particular area of focus.
from the Nomination Committee on his retirement from the Board in April 2016.
3 M argaret Ford was unable to attend the May 2016 Nomination Committee meeting due to another business commitment.
Gerald Corbett Chairman of the Nomination Committee SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 74 Governance Nomination Committee Report continued Experience of the Board The most recent accounts for both of these Role of the Committee See chart below which summarises the companies confirm that he attended every The key roles and responsibilities of the experience of the Directors.
Board meeting and relevant Committee Committee are to: meeting.
He has previously announced that he Regularly review the skills and experience Appraisal process will retire from Numis once a successor has been of the Board to ensure that it is the right The annual appraisal of the Chairman is led by appointed.
He has agreed to remain in place structure, size and composition taking the Senior Independent Director.
until a new chairman is appointed in order to account of skills, experience, independence, The Chairman leads the appraisal of the Chief ensure an orderly succession.
The Committee knowledge and diversity to operate effectively further noted that he has been Chairman of Executive by arranging a meeting of Nonand to deliver our strategy: Executive Directors to discuss his performance.
Britvic for 11 years and that a search is underway to identify his successor.
He will continue as To lead the process for Board appointments.
The Non-Executive Directors agreed that the To identify and nominate for Board approval, Chief Executive was performing well, executing Chairman in 2017 to ensure a smooth handover.
The Committee concluded that he would have candidates to fill Board vacancies, identifying his tasks with energy and leading the executive the skills required for the role, appointing team in an effective way.
It was a credit to the sufficient time to commit to the Company including recognising the need for availability in a search firm, recognising the benefits of Chief Executive that the Company had had diversity, and in the case of Non-Executive a good year with his team delivering all their the event of crises.
Directors ensuring they will have sufficient agreed objectives.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors time for the role: letters of appointment and their fees are set The performance of the other Executive Ensuring the Companys leadership skills out in the Remuneration Report and the Directors is appraised by the Chief Executive, Remuneration Policy.
are fully aligned with the Companys longwith feedback from the other Directors term strategy: where appropriate.
Appointment of Soumen Das Following Justin Reads announcement to the Consider succession planning for the Appointment of Directors Board of his intention to take early retirement, Executive and Non-Executive Directors and Following these appraisal processes, the the Nomination Committee met to agree the to ensure succession planning is in place for Committee concluded that each of the Directors process to identify his successor.
It decided to members of the Leadership Team: continue to make an effective contribution to the appoint Russell Reynolds Associates to lead the Board.
It also considered the time commitments Consider the diversity policy: and search as they had an established reputation of the Non-Executive Directors, and concluded for leading financial executive searches.
Recommend the election by shareholders that each of the Directors had sufficient time Russell Reynolds Associates do not have any to commit to the Company.
In particular, the of the Directors, having due regard to other connection with the Company.
their performance and ability to continue Committee reviewed the time commitments for Gerald Corbett, who became the Companys to contribute to the Board, taking into consideration the skill, experience and Chairman in April 2016.
He is the Chairman of Numis Corporation plc Numis, an AIM knowledge required along with the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
company and of Britvic plc.
Experience of the Board International Corporate Real Estate experience Banking City experience Finance experience in line experience management or audit capacity 60% 40% 40% 60% 70% 30% 40% 60% Experienced Not experienced Governance 75 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements With support from the Group HR Director, Liz Succession Planning Diversity Reilly, the Committee agreed Russell Reynold The Committee considers succession planning The Directors are committed to having a Associates fees, their Terms of Engagement regularly as it recognises the importance of balanced Board which recognises the benefits which included a draft role profile, and the creating and supporting a suitably talented of diversity in its broadest sense and the value recruitment process.
Russell Reynolds Associates diverse pipeline of leaders ready to serve as this brings to the organisation in terms of skills, is a signatory to the Standard Voluntary Code the next generation of plc Directors.
It reviews knowledge and experiences.
of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and was the skills and experience of the current Board, asked to present a diverse talent pool on its initial With respect to gender specifically, the Board and considers whether these are appropriate to long list.
supports Lord Davies aspiration to promote support the delivery of the Companys strategic greater gender diversity on Boards.
It recognises Feedback from all of the Non-Executive goals both now and in the future.
that how we select and brief executive search Directors on the initial long list, helped In 2019, letters of engagement will expire or are partners and how we specify the skills and the Committee to prepare a shortlist due for renewal for four of the Non-Executive experience needed for a role are important of six candidates.
David Sleath and Liz Directors, and so the Committee will, during elements in this regard.
In selecting candidates Reilly conducted the first interviews and 2017, start to prepare for their orderly rotation.
for Board positions, the Committee will only use recommended a shorter list of candidates to the services of executive search firms who have proceed to the next stage.
The Committee The Group HR Director regularly presents signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for agreed that Gerald Corbett, as Chairman of the to the Board on the Companys succession Executive Search Firms as recommend by Lord Committee and Doug Webb as Chairman of planning and talent development programme.
See section above on the appointment of the Audit Committee should then interview the The Companys strategy is well established Soumen Das.
If appropriate, candidates and its execution is not dependent on any were offered a tour of assets and interviews with one individual.
For Executive Directors and In the final selection decision, all Board other Executive and Non-Executive Directors for roles on the Leadership Team, plans are appointments are made on merit and relevant were arranged.
in place for sudden, unforeseen absences, experience, against the criteria identified by for medium-term orderly succession and for the Committee, having regard to the benefits The Nomination Committee, invited other longer-term succession.
These plans are then of diversity including gender.
The Board has a Non-Executives who were not members used to provide development plans for our most fundamental obligation to ensure candidates of the Committee to join them, to discuss talented people and to ensure, looking forward, are appointed who will promote the success of the final shortlist of candidates and receive that we have the right people to deliver our the Company as well as to comply with equal feedback from the interviews and meetings.
We encourage regular contact between opportunities legislation.
It does not wish to There was agreement that although each members of the Leadership Team and the increase the size of the Board solely to enable were strong candidates, Soumen Das was an Board.
This may be a Board presentation, a tour further women to be appointed.
The Committee made of assets or a one-to-one session with a Nona recommendation to the Board that Soumen The Board recognises that the pace at which Executive Director to discuss a specific issue.
Das be appointed Chief Financial Officer, subject we can improve diversity will depend, to some to the Remuneration Committee reaching extent, on the availability of vacancies as well agreement on his remuneration package.
It therefore supports the aspirations of the Hampton Alexander review to identify and develop the next generation of female talent.
Details of the Groups approach to gender Directors tenure as at 31 December 2016 diversity are set out in more detail on page 42.
11 years Join date 0 months 01 01 2006 01 01 2007 01 01 2008 6 years 6 years 01 01 2009 7 months 8 months 01 01 2010 01 01 2011 4 years 4 years 3 years 3 years 0 months 0 months 01 01 2012 8 months 8 months 2 years 01 01 2013 6 months 01 01 2014 01 01 2015 10 months 0 months 01 01 2016 01 01 2017 Gerald Soumen Christopher Margaret Andy Martin Phil Mark David Doug Corbett Das Fisher Ford Gulliford Moore Redding Robertshaw Sleath Webb SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 76 I then had induction meetings with the Business I attended a dinner with ten of our top investors Gerald Corbett induction Unit Directors, the Heads of Investment in in May, meeting them in an informal setting Before I joined the Board in March, I had the UK and Continental Europe as well as to hear their views on SEGRO and their already spent some time with a number of the a number of heads of function based in the expectations from the Company and from Directors and the Group Company Secretary, corporate centre.
It was reassuring to spend me as Chairman in future.
I also wrote to our doing my own due diligence, getting to know time with the people who keep the corporate ten largest shareholders offering to meet with the Company and understanding the business.
side of the business in good order from the them.
I had meetings with Deloitte as outgoing My first Board meeting was in our Milan office treasury team, the Group Legal and Secretariat auditor and with PwC who were performing team, the Finance team, Investor Relations, their first audit for us in 2016.
KPMG provided which was an excellent opportunity to meet the Italian team, to see some assets first hand and to HR.
As with any new role, I think it is vital some reassuring insights into the internal audit to get out into the business, to see the assets process while CBRE took me through the to spend some time with the Directors and the executive team.
Each of the Executive Directors and meet the people who look after them.
Being new it was enormously helpful to see worked hard in the first few weeks to make I also spent time with each of the Nonsure that I had been briefed about their areas the development opportunities in Rugby, to be Executive Directors, taking the temperature taken around the Slough Trading Estate and to of responsibility.
on what concerned them and their views on have a guided tour of some of the prime assets key issues.
Nigel Rich was keen to work with me to ensure around Heathrow and Park Royal.
I visited the a smooth handover and I was grateful for his Dsseldorf office and Berlin in April, while in A properly constructed and carefully paced guidance during those early weeks when I was October I spent time with the French team in induction programme is essential for any new on the Board but before he retired.
I obviously Paris and the Polish team in Warsaw before the Director and in particular for an incoming spent a lot of time with David Sleath in these end of the year.
It has been a busy year but I feel early days, being briefed on strategy and fully integrated into the business, I understand Of course, as Chairman, I was also keen to current issues.
how things work and who is doing what and get to know the Companys advisers and how decisions are being made.
to understand shareholder perception of the business.
