SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 64 Board of Directors Mark Robertshaw Soumen Das Phil Redding David Sleath Gerald Corbett Independent Chief Financial Officer Chief Investment Officer Chief Executive Officer Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 June 2010 Appointed 16 January 2017 Appointed 1 May 2013 Appointed 1 January 2006 Appointed 1 March 2016 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Mark has extensive experience Soumen is an experienced corporate Phil has over 25 years experience David has considerable knowledge of Gerald has been a director of 13 public of working across the finance and financier and former Managing Director in real estate.
He has held a variety the Company and the real estate sector companies, seven of which he has consultancy sectors.
His perspective as of Capital and Counties Properties of appointments within SEGRO and and has broad experience of financial chaired.
His executive career included the Chief Executive Officer of a large PLC Capco, where he led the finance has been instrumental in a number of and general management and of the periods as Finance Director of Redland multi-national industrial business brings function of one of the largest listed key transactions for the Group.
He is professional services industry.
He is and Grand Metropolitan and he was additional insight to SEGRO as an central London property companies.
a member of the Royal Institution of a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Chief Executive of Railtrack.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Current Appointments Current Appointments Current Appointments Soumen was appointed as Chief Current Appointments Current Appointments Gerald was appointed Chairman Mark was appointed as a NonFinancial Officer at SEGRO in Phil was appointed Chief Investment David was appointed Chief Executive of SEGRO in April 2016.
He is Executive Director in June 2010.
Officer of SEGRO in November 2011, in April 2011, having served as Finance currently Chairman of Britvic PLC, the currently Group Chief Executive of having joined the Company in 1995.
He is Senior Marylebone Cricket Club and Numis Previous Appointments Innovia Group.
He joined the Board as an Executive Independent Director of Bunzl plc, a Corporation PLC.
Soumen joined Capco from Liberty Director in May 2013.
Board member of the European Public Previous Appointments International, having coordinated the Previous Appointments Real Estate Association, and President He was previously Chief Executive demerger of the companies in 2010.
Previous Appointments Previously he was Chairman of Betfair and Board member of the British Officer of Morgan Advanced Materials Prior to this, he spent two years as a Phil started his career in 1990 in the Group plc, Moneysupermarket.
plc, a post he held for eight years, partner in Mountgrange Investment Industrial Agency and Development PLC and SSL International plc, and having previously been Chief Operating Management LLP now Clearbell team of King Sturge, where he held a Previous Appointments has served as a non-executive director Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Capital and nine years at UBS where variety of positions.
Prior to becoming He has previously held a number of of MEPC, Greencore Group and Prior to this he was Chief Financial he was an Executive Director an Executive Director at SEGRO, senior finance roles, including Finance Burmah Castrol.
Officer of Gartmore Investment specialising in real estate.
he was Business Unit Director for Director of Wagon plc and partner at He is Chairman of the Management plc, and spent nine London Markets.
Arthur Andersen, where he worked for Age 40 Nomination Committee.
years with Marakon Associates, a 17 years.
Age 48 leading management consultancy Age 65 He is a member of the headquartered in the US.
He is a member of the Age 55 Remuneration Committee.
Age 48 Governance 65 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Baroness Ford Andy Gulliford Martin Moore Christopher Fisher Doug Webb Senior Independent Chief Operating Officer Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 January 2013 Appointed 1 May 2013 Appointed 1 July 2014 Appointed 1 October 2012 Appointed 1 May 2010 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Baroness Ford has considerable Andy has over 30 years experience Martin has over 40 years experience in Christopher has spent his career in Doug comes from a corporate financial experience of the real estate market in real estate and brings extensive the real estate and property sector and corporate finance and has over 10 years management background and has 10 and the support services sector and knowledge of the Company and he brings extensive industry knowledge of plc Board experience.
years Board level experience as a Chief over 20 years experience at Board level the real estate sector in both the and breadth of experience, having spent Financial Officer of listed companies.
Current Appointments at private and listed companies.
She is UK and Continental Europe.
He is a his career at Prudential plc.
He brings recent and relevant financial He is Chairman of the Marshall Aid an Honorary Member of the Royal member of the Royal Institution of experience to the Board.
Martin was appointed as Non-Executive Current Appointments Previous Appointments Current Appointments Current Appointments Director in July 2014.
He is currently Doug was appointed as a Non-Executive Christopher spent most of his career at Baroness Ford joined the Board in Andy was appointed Chief Operating Senior Independent Director of F&C Director in May 2010.
He is currently Lazard, latterly as a Managing Director.
January 2013 and is currently Chairman Officer at SEGRO in November 2011, Commercial Property Trust Ltd, Nonthe Chief Financial Officer of Meggitt He subsequently worked at KPMG as of STV Group plc.
having joined the Company in 2004.
Executive Director of the M&G Asia plc, a member of the Investment Vice Chairman, Corporate Finance, and He was appointed as an Executive Property Fund and Non-Executive Advisory Committee of Fitzwilliam Previous Appointments at Penfida, the corporate finance adviser Director in May 2013.
Chairman of Secure Income Reit plc.
College, Cambridge, and a Fellow of the Previously, Baroness Ford was Nonto pension fund trustees, as a Senior He is an adviser at Kohlberg Kravis Institute of Chartered Accountants in Executive Chairman of May Gurney Previous Appointments Partner.
On corporate Boards, he has Roberts & Co. LLP and a Commissioner England and Wales.
Integrated Services plc, Barchester Andy was previously SEGROs held appointments as Chairman of Bank of Historic England.
Healthcare Limited and Grove Limited, Managing Director for Continental of Ireland UK, as Chairman of Southern Previous Appointments and a Non-Executive Director of Taylor Europe.
Prior to this, he was the Director Previous Appointments Cross Healthcare and as a NonBetween 2008 and 2012 he was Chief Wimpey plc and was the Chairman of of Corporate Acquisitions and Business Martin was Chief Executive at M&G Executive Director of Kelda Group PLC, Financial Officer of London Stock Grainger plc.
She was also Chairman of Development Director.
Before joining Real Estate from 1996 and Chairman the FTSE 100 water group.
On public Exchange Group plc.
He was previously the Olympic Park Legacy Company.
SEGRO, Andy spent 19 years at Jones from 2012 until his retirement in bodies he has served as President of the Chief Financial Officer of QinetiQ Lang LaSalle, latterly as European 2013.
He has been an Adviser and Council of the University of Reading and Group plc and Financial Director She is the Senior Independent Director for the companys industrial Commissioner of The Crown Estate, as a member of the Trustee Board of the Continental Europe and Chief Financial Non-Executive Director, Chairman and logistics business.
a Board member and President of Imperial War Museum.
Officer North America at Logica plc.
of the Remuneration Committee the British Property Federation, and a Prior to these appointments he spent and a member of the Audit and Age 54 He is a member of the Board member and Chairman of the 12years at Price Waterhouse.
Audit, Nomination and Investment Property Forum.
He is Chairman of the Audit Age 59 He is a member of the Audit and Committee and a member of the Age 63 Remuneration Committees.
