Governance 67 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance Report Responsibilities of the Board Board membership Attendance The Board is responsible for creating and Details of the Directors, including the skills and All Directors are expected to attend Board delivering sustainable shareholder value.
experience they each bring to the Board, are on and Committee meetings of which they are The Directors act in a way they consider will pages 64 and 65.
The Board comprises a Nona member.
During 2016, there were seven promote the long-term success of the Company Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors scheduled Board meetings.
for the benefit of shareholders, with regard to and five Independent Non-Executive Directors, None of the Non-Executive Directors had raised the interests of the Groups employees, and all of whom are equally responsible for the concerns over the time commitment required of the impact of the business on the community, proper stewardship of the Group.
Taking into them to fulfil their duties.
the environment and the interests of account the provisions of the Code, each of other stakeholders.
the Non-Executive Directors is considered Attendance at Board meetings during 2016 is set independent in character and judgement.
out in the table on the following page.
The Chairman was considered independent on appointment and the Board still considers him to be so.
Further information is provided in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 73 to 76.
Roles and responsibilities of the Directors The Board is responsible collectively for the success of the Group.
The table below explains the responsibility of each of the Board members.
The division of responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director are set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Role Name Responsibilities Chairman Gerald Corbett Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
Sets the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to promote constructive debate and effective decision making.
Ensures that the corporate governance of the Group is maintained in line with current best practice.
Takes the necessary steps to ensure that all Directors receive the accurate, clear and timely information which they require to enable them to make sound decisions, to monitor the business effectively and to fulfil their duty to promote the success of the Company.
Ensures effective communication with shareholders and stakeholders and makes sure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major investors.
Chief Executive Officer David Sleath Manages the business of the Group.
Recommends the Groups strategy to the Board and is responsible for the implementation of that strategy and for the Groups overall performance.
Executive Directors Soumen Das Manage the business operations within each Directors area of responsibility in accordance with the Groups strategy.
Andy Gulliford Phil Redding Independent Christopher Fisher Bring independent judgement and scrutiny to the decisions taken by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors Martin Moore Monitor the success of management in delivering the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by the Board.
Mark Robertshaw Doug Webb Senior Independent Margaret Ford Acts as a sounding board to the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary.
Non-Executive Director Available to shareholders should the occasion arise where there is a need to convey concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Group Company Elizabeth Blease Responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
Secretary Ensures timely and appropriate information flows within the Board, the Board Committees and between the Directors and senior management.
Ensures compliance with all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements.
Gives guidance and advice within the Company on matters of business ethics and good governance.
Is available to give detailed practical support and guidance to Directors both individually and collectively.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 68 Governance Governance Report continued A number of other unscheduled Board meetings Table of attendance Board The work of the Board and telephone conference calls were also held 1 Nigel Rich 3 3 Role of the Board during the year, as the need arose.
Each of the 2 The principal role of the Board is to ensure that Gerald Corbett 5 5 Directors has committed to attend all scheduled the Groups strategy creates and sustains longChristopher Fisher 7 7 Board and Committee meetings and would term value for its investors.
Details of how the 3 Margaret Ford 6 7 not do so only in exceptional circumstances.
Company generates and preserves value are set Similarly, every effort is made by Directors to Andy Gulliford 7 7 out in the Strategic Report.
The Board retains attend ad hoc meetings either in person or by Martin Moore 7 7 responsibility for the approval of certain matters using conference facilities.
Justin Read 7 7 which include: Group strategy: the annual On the rare occasion that a Director cannot budget: the dividend policy: major investments Phil Redding 7 7 attend a meeting they are still provided with and disposals: and the financial structure.
Mark Robertshaw 7 7 the papers in advance of the meeting and are There is an approved Schedule of Matters David Sleath 7 7 given an opportunity to discuss them with the Reserved for Decision by the Board, which is Doug Webb 7 7 Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Total number of meetings 7 The day-to-day running of the Group is 1 Retired from the Board at AGM in April 2016 delegated by the Board to the Chief Executive 2 Joined the Board on 1 March 2016 who is supported by the Executive Committee.
3 U nable to attend one Board meeting due tofamily illness Key activities of the Board during 2016 Routine Business Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Review of the Medium-Term Rolling reviews of the performance of Presentation from the Companys Rolling reviews of the performance of Financial Plan and setting of mediuminvestments and developments over the independent valuers on the 2016 halfinvestments and developments over term objectives previous three years year valuation the previous three years Presentation from the Companys Consideration of the outlook for the Approval of the 2016 half-year financial Consideration of the outlook for the independent valuers on the 2015 fullproperty market, both occupier and results and interim dividend property market, both occupier and year valuation investment, and the economic climate investment, and the economic climate Approval of Principal Risks Approval of the 2016 budget Presentations from the Companys Annual update on the performance of Annual review of corporate brokers on shareholders analysts the SELP joint venture Approval of 2015 financial results and governance and an update on attitudes to the Company final dividend corporate and regulatory changes and Annual strategy day including asset reporting requirements plans, portfolio planning and the Approval of Principal Risks and Medium-Term Financial Plan risk appetite A Review of investor feedback Review of people strategy, succession Annual review of Treasury Policies planning and talent management Annual reports on community engagement, charitable giving, customer satisfaction survey, insurance and sustainability strategy Review of the conclusions of the Board evaluation Matters specific to 2016 Approval of a 184,000 sq m pre-let Training on the Market Review of the proposal for the SELP joint Approval of the sale of land in west in Rome Abuse Regulations venture to launch a 500 million bond London to a residential developer Debt financing 2016 recommendations Approval of the sale of Heston and Approval of investment and infrastructure and future strategy Airlinks industrial Estate works at SEGRO Logistics Park East Midlands Gateway Approval to enter into joint venture with Roxhill Approval of 325 million equity placing Governance 69 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Committee structure Risk The Directors were unanimous in their view that The Board has delegated a number of its The Board recognises that effective risk the Board was operating effectively.
There was responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and management is central to the achievement of the agreement that the Board was the right size Remuneration Committees, details of which are Groups strategic objectives and the long-term and had the appropriate range of skills and set out below.
The Terms of Reference of these sustainable growth of the business.
The quality of Board discussions Committees can be found at www.
has overall accountability for ensuring that risk was good and there was a climate of trust and The Company ensures that these Committees is managed effectively across the Group, and transparency.
The Executive Directors were seen are provided with sufficient resources to the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness as being open and engaged, while the Nonundertake their duties.
of the risk management process on behalf Executive Directors brought a range of skills and of the Board.
Further details about the risk experience, and ensured constructive debate.
Responsibility for all operational matters, management process and the Groups Principal including the implementation of Group The Board followed up on each of the action Risks are set out on pages 54 to 61. strategy, is delegated to the Chief Executive.
plans from 2015, which included spending The Executive Committee supports the Chief Please see page 56 for details about how the time considering diversity on the Board see Executive in the delivery of strategy, establishing Board has complied with the provisions in the Nomination Committee Report, the impact on financial and operating targets and monitoring Code to carry out a robust assessment of the Brexit see Principal Risks and altering the 2018 performance against those targets.
At each principal risks facing the Company.
Board calendar to balance the intervals between meeting the Committee reviews financial and meetings throughout the year.
Evaluation operational performance, considers any health The Board has a policy of undertaking externally The performance of the three Board and safety incidents, carries out a pre-approval facilitated evaluations every three years and Committees was also reviewed and it was noted review of items requiring Board approval and internal reviews in the intervening two years.
that each was performing effectively.
acts as a primary approval channel for matters External evaluations took place in 2008, 2011 below Board-approval level.
The Executive The Board, and each of its Committees, and 2014.
Committee has its own Terms of Reference.
considered the feedback and agreed action This Committee meets formally each month but In 2016, the Chairman, with the assistance of plans for the forthcoming year.
also meets each week for an informal discussion the Group Company Secretary, led an internal As part of the appraisal process, the Senior of day-to-day issues.
Questionnaires for the Board Independent Director meets annually with and the three Board Committees were prepared The Executive Committee delegates some of its the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the that encouraged the Directors to provide written responsibilities to a further four Committees: performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman, comments on a number of themes rather than with the Non-Executive Directors, also the Investment Committee: simply tick boxes.
conducted a performance evaluation of the the Operations Committee: The questionnaires covered nine themes: Chief Executive.
the Risk Committee: and composition of the Board: the Finance Committee.
balance of power within the Board and across its Committees: These Committees have their own Terms of Reference and membership includes at least knowledge of the business: one member of the Executive Committee.
role of the Chairman: For further details see page 66. strategy and decision making: Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Code, each of the relationship with shareholders: Directors will submit themselves for re-election Board administration: at the 2017 AGM, save for Soumen Das who will be submitting himself for election as this risk management: and will be his first meeting since his appointment.
The Nomination Committee Report on pages 73 to 76 provides more information about the Directors appraisal process, while their skills and expertise are set out in the Directors biographies on pages 64 and 65.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 70 Governance Governance Report continued Conflicts Most Board meetings take place in London but The Company organises a dedicated investor The Board operates a policy to identify and, during the year meetings and tours took place in relations programme with institutional investors, when appropriate, manage actual or potential Milan and the Slough Trading Estate.
The Board which includes formal events during the year conflicts of interest affecting Directors.
met with management teams in these locations along with a regular series of one-to-one and and had tours of the Groups property portfolios.
These events also provide an Directors are required to submit any actual or opportunity for shareholders to meet members potential conflicts of interest they may have with The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the of the senior management team.
See the chart the Company to the Board for approval.
Group Company Secretary are always available below for further details.
for the Directors to discuss any issues concerning Any conflicts of interest are recorded and Board meetings or other matters.
The Chairman and Senior Independent reviewed by the full Board, at each meeting.
Director are available to shareholders to discuss Directors have a continuing duty to keep All Directors have access to the advice and governance and strategy or any concerns they the Board updated about any changes to services of the Group Company Secretary, who may have which contact through the usual these conflicts.
is responsible for ensuring compliance with channels has failed to resolve or is otherwise Board procedures.
Directors have the right to inappropriate, although no shareholders have Induction and training seek independent professional advice at the requested such a meeting.
After becoming Newly appointed Directors participate in a Companys reasonable expense.
Chairman at the 2016 AGM, Gerald Corbett structured and tailored induction programme contacted major shareholders and offered and on appointment receive a comprehensive The Company maintains directors and officers a meeting with himself and or the Senior pack of information on the Group and its liability insurance, which gives appropriate cover Independent Director.
Both individuals continue governance structure.
for legal action brought against its Directors.
to be available for meetings should shareholders The case study on page 76 provides details of Engagement with shareholders and other request them.
the induction programme for Gerald Corbett.
stakeholders The Chairman attends the financial results Soumen Das joined the Board in January The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial presentations.
The Board is kept informed 2017 and a detailed induction programme is Officer are the Companys principal spokesmen about any discussions with shareholders and the now underway.
with investors, fund managers, analysts, the press Directors are provided regularly with analysts and other interested stakeholders.
The Board is Ongoing training is provided to all Directors reports and investor feedback.
committed to providing investors with regular either during Board or Committee meetings announcements of significant events affecting or through one-to-one meetings with the Group, including its business strategy and senior managers.
Shareholder Engagement: What we did in 2016 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN Investor conference 2015 full-year results Investor roadshows in Investor conference in Investor and Analyst Investor conference in inLondon presentation London, Edinburgh and London Event focused on London Amsterdam London, took place Investor roadshow Trading Update at Park Royal with inLondon Investor conferences in for Q1 2016 an additional tour of New York and London Annual General Meeting Heathrow Equity sales presentation Investor dinner with the new Chairman Investor conference in Amsterdam Governance 71 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements The Companys website, www.
com, Debt investors programme Constructive use of the AGM provides shareholders with comprehensive Banks and Bondholders The AGM is an opportunity for the Directors information on the Groups recent business A regular dialogue is maintained with our key to communicate with, and answer questions activities and financial developments, including relationship banks, bondholders and secured from, shareholders.
All Directors are available to webcasts, press releases and recordings of lenders, during 2016 this included: meet informally with shareholders before and interviews with the Chief Executive.
Prior to the formal business at least bi-annual meetings between lending of the meeting, the Chief Executive makes a We have a dedicated Investor Relations team banks and our Treasury team and Group presentation on the progress and performance which reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
Finance Director: of the Group.
Communication with investors and analysts is an annual Bank and Bondholders meeting, an ongoing process throughout the year on The Notice of AGM is posted to shareholders which was attended by approximately 10 of a proactive and reactive basis.
This includes at least 20 working days before the meeting.
our banks and bondholders: regular scheduled Investor Relations events, The Company proposes separate resolutions outlined in the calendar below, as well as oneon each substantially separate issue, with meeting with a number of bondholders at a to-one and group meetings with Executive voting conducted by poll.
The Board believes Fixed Investor Conference: and Directors, tours of our properties and equity this voting process is more democratic than active engagement between our Treasury sales team presentations at global and local a show of hands since all shares voted at the team and potential lenders debt investors.
During the year, the Chief meeting, as well as proxy votes lodged before Executive, along with the Executive Directors the meeting, are counted.
For each resolution, Credit rating agencies and senior management along with our Investor shareholders will have the option to vote either During the year, updates and meetings were Relations team met with representatives from for or against a resolution, or to withhold their held by our Treasury team with Fitch Ratings, Inc 148 institutions.
Following the meeting, the results of votes rating agency.
lodged for and against each resolution are announced to the London Stock Exchange and displayed on the Companys website.
Shareholder Engagement: What we did in 2016 continued... JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC 2016 half-year results Equity sales Investor conferences in Trading Update for Investor roadshows in Investor conference presentations in London New York and London Q32016 Paris inCape Town Investor roadshows inLondon and Investor roadshows in Investor roadshow in Investor conference Amsterdam London and Amsterdam Toronto inLondon Retail investor roadshow in London Equity sales presentations in London SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 72 Board tour of assets around Milan Like any Board we constantly monitor Aligning itself with one of our values Off Site competitor activity in our markets but Keeping one eye on the horizon, the Each year the Board takes some time to during the Off Site there is time to stand Directors spent part of the day thinking stand back from its more regular work and back and to review our business model, to about future threats and opportunities.
reflect on some of the wider issues facing the assess our own competitive position and The Futures Group, a cross-business business.
This year more than ever there has challenge ourselves as to whether there team of eight of our young leaders gave a been political change at home and abroad is anything we could be doing differently presentation on potential future trends and which may lead to economic uncertainty.
disruptive technologies and how they could Alongside this, there are global business affect our business and our customers.
trends such as internet retailing, disruptive The extent of our geographic footprint and technologies and the continued demand for the challenge of achieving critical mass Although this is quite deliberately not a day for space in already highly populated regions in some markets remains a key focus.
approvals, the presentations, the challenges and which can all have an impact on the future The Board has recognised the benefits the discussions will help to provide a context for shape of our business.
from being a multi-jurisdictional provider of decisions the Board will have to take over the warehouse and logistics facilities in Europe, forthcoming year.
A number of actions were The day is also an opportunity for the Nonprovided we pick the right markets and agreed which included continuing to remain Executive Directors to hear from members can achieve scale in all of the markets in alert to the changing environment.
of the Senior Leadership Team and external which we operate.
The Board heard about speakers.
It was also a good opportunity for the progress in our new markets of Spain the Non-Executive Directors to hear from and Italy, along with thoughts about other Gerald Corbett individuals below Board level, including some Continental European markets for the Chairman ofthe Groups younger talent.
Here is a snap shot of what the Board talked CBREs UK and EMEA Heads of Research about at its Off Site this year.
presented the Board with their assessment The Board discussed the 5 year financial of the economic environment and outlook for our property markets, including their plan which is built upon detailed asset and development plans, our overall portfolio expectations of the impact of heightened geopolitical uncertainty, including Brexit, on master plan and our assessment of the most likely economic and property market our markets.
scenarios and our funding assumptions.
The plan was also stress tested, for a number of alternative scenarios to assess the resilience of our business in the event of an economic downturn.
