AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER THE COMMITTEE IS TASKED WITH REVIEWING AND ADVISING THE BOARD ON FINANCIAL REPORTING, INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT, AND REVIEWS THE PERFORMANCE, INDEPENDENCE AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS IN CARRYING OUT THE STATUTORY AUDIT.
The Committee advises the Board on various statements made in the Annual Report, including those on viability, going concern, risk and controls and whether, when read as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Board appointed Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditors during the year, following a tender process in 2015.
Dermot Mathias Chairman Audit Committee FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS The Committee reviews all financial information published in the annual and The Committee considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies half year financial statements.
It considers accounting policies adopted by used in preparing the financial statements, and in particular, paid attention to the Group, presentation and disclosure of the financial information and, in matters it considered to be important by virtue of their impact on the particular, the key judgements made by management in preparing the Groups results and remuneration, and those which involve a high level of financial statements.
complexity, judgement or estimation by management.
The significant areas considered are set out below: The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
The Committee considered whether the Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable Valuation of investment properties and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess The valuation opinion is provided by independent external valuers and is the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
In carrying out this one of the critical components of the annual and half year financial results.
exercise, the Committee had regard to the systems and controls around the It is inherently subjective, requiring significant judgement.
As well as a preparation of the accounts, the procedures to bring relevant information to detailed review of the valuations by management, members of the the attention of the preparers of the accounts, the consistency of the reports Committee met the Groups valuers, without management present, before and whether they are in accordance with the information provided to the Board finalisation of the annual and half year results.
At these meetings, they during the year.
It considered whether the Annual Report had been written in discussed the valuations, reviewed the key judgements and discussed straightforward language, without unnecessary repetition of information, and the whether there were any significant disagreements with management.
They use of any adjusted measures, eg EPRA, were adequately explained.
also discussed current market conditions, including the impact of the EU Referendum, recent transactions in the market and any impact these have The Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, had on the valuation.
The auditors use internal real estate specialists, who balanced and understandable and included the necessary information as set meet with the valuers as part of their audit and report their findings and out above.
It confirmed this to the Board, whose statement in this regard is conclusions to the Committee.
The Board considered the valuation at its set out on page 112. meeting to approve the financial statements: at which the valuers of the Consideration was also given to the Principal Risks and Uncertainties and the Groups wholly-owned portfolio attended and explained the assumptions Viability Statement, set out on pages 66 to 69.
The Committee has reviewed underlying their valuation opinion.
the scenario analysis prepared by management including the assumptions made and has recommended the statement to the Board.
90 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Other areas of judgement GOING CONCERN In add ition, the Committee has considered a number of other judgements The Committee reviewed whether it was appropriate to adopt the going which have been made by management, none of which were material in the concern basis in the preparation of the results.
In considering this, it reviewed context of the Groups or net assets.
These include judgements concerning the Groups five-year profit, cash flow and investment forecasts, availability of the charge for equity settled remuneration and the valuation of derivative committed bank and debt facilities and expected headroom under the financial instruments.
financial covenants in those facilities.
Following the review, it recommended to the Board that it was appropriate to adopt the going concern basis.
T he Committee also reviewed revenue recognition policies across the Group, considering the use of judgement and estimates in preparing VIABILITY STATEMENT financial information.
The Committee concluded that the Groups revenue recognition policies are generally straightforward, and there were no At the request of the Board, the Committee reviewed the Viability Statement transactions involving a high degree of judgement or estimation.
and the period for which the Board should assess the prospects of the Group.
Last year, the Group considered a five year period appropriate.
This assumption Accounting for the refinancing of 8.5% First Mortgage Debenture Stock remains appropriate.
The Committee reviewed a report from management due 2024 the Stock which set out the basis for the conclusions in the Viability Statement, including T he Committee reviewed the accounting for the refinancing of the Groups scenario analyses.
The Boards viability statement is set out on page 71.
In Septe mber 2016, the terms of the Debenture Stock were amended to grant RISK REVIEW PROCESS the Company an early redemption option to redeem the Stock in full at an As part of standing matters, the Committee reviewed the business risks and agreed amount, including a redemption premium.
The exercise of the early internal controls framework during the year.
This review included testing by redemption option was conditional upon the issue of newly created longerthe external auditors and assurance from the Finance Director over certain dated Guaranteed First Mortgage Bonds, to be issued by 31 December 2016. key controls.
The Groups internal control and risk management procedures, and its principal risks and uncertainties, are reported in the Strategic Report.
T he amendments to the redemption terms materially changed the The Committee undertook a review of the Groups cyber security risks and discounted present value of the cash flows of the Stock.
In order to reflect was satisfied that the Group had met the Governments cyber essentials this change, the Company revised the carrying value of the Stock.
previously held in the Balance Sheet at amortised cost, and is now held at fair value, being the total consideration to be paid to stockholders.
This EXTERNAL AUDITORS resulted in an increase in the recognised liability of 29.2 million, comprising the redemption premium noted above, less the remaining unamortised issue The Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit.
The premium in respect of the Stock.
This has been charged to the Statement Committee put the Group audit out to tender during 2015 and the Board of Total Comprehensive Income in the year ended 30 September 2016. appointed Ernst & Young LLP.
The process was described in last years report.
T he carrying value of the Stock has been included in the Balance Sheet The Company has complied during the year with the provisions of the within current liabilities, reflecting the expectation that it would be satisfied Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory within three months of the year end.
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
In a rriving at the accounting treatment noted above, the Board has made a judgement that the issue of new First Mortgage Bonds was extremely likely.
This is the first year that the current lead audit partner, Eamonn McGrath, has To support this judgement, the Committee noted that the Group had been in position.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups issued a prospectus in relation to the Bonds, the order book had been choice of external auditor.
In accordance with the current regulations, the substantially over-subscribed and had closed on 29 September 2016, at Group will re-tender the audit every ten years.
which point the new Bonds had been priced.
The new Bonds were issued on 7 October 2016.
AWARD OF NON-AUDIT ASSIGNMENTS TO THE EXTERNAL AUDIT FIRM Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not aware of any The policy of the Committee is that non-audit assignments are not awarded material misstatements in the Annual Report and the auditors confirmed that to the external audit firm if there is a risk that their audit independence and they had found no material misstatements in the course of their work.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, non-audit fees should not exceed audit and assurance fees in any year.
The After reviewing the reports from management and, following its discussions with award of any non-audit assignment to the Groups auditors in excess of the auditors and valuers, the Committee is satisfied that the financial statements 25,000 is subject to the prior approval of the Committee.
There were two appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect such assignments during the year, relating to the refinancing of the Debenture of the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is satisfied that Stock.
the processes used for determining the value of the assets and liabilities have been appropriately reviewed, challenged and are sufficiently robust.
GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 91 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT FEES ANNUAL AUDITOR ASSESSMENT Fees payable to the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit services are set Annually, the Committee assesses the qualifications, expertise, resources, and out below: independence of the Groups external auditors, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
It does this through discussion with the Finance 2016 2015 Director, review of a detailed assessment questionnaire and confirmation from the external auditor.
This is the first year that Ernst & Young LLP have Audit of the parent companys annual accounts 59 58 been our auditor and following informal assessments, to date, the Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit and the interaction Audit of the consolidated Group 83 98 between the auditors and the Committee.
Following completion of the current years audit, the Committee will carry out a formal assessment.
Total audit services 142 156 Ernst & Young LLP has confirmed to the Committee that: Audit related assurance services half year review 21 21 T hey have internal procedures in place to identify any aspects of non-audit Other assurance services 25 - work which could compromise their role as auditors and to ensure the objectivity of their audit report.
Total assurance services 46 21 The total fees paid by the Group during the year do not represent a material part of their firms fee income.
Total audit and assurance services 188 177 They consider that they have maintained their audit independence Tax compliance services - 39 throughout the year.
Tax advisory services - 39 The Committee has satisfied itself as to their qualifications, expertise and resources and remains confident that their objectivity and independence are Services related to taxation - 78 not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
Other non-audit services 25 - INTERNAL AUDIT Total fees related to taxation and other non-audit services 25 78 In view of the focused nature of the Groups business, the close involvement of the executive directors in day-to-day decision making and relatively simple Total fees 213 255 structure, together with the regular independent reviews of the processes and controls of managing agents, the Committee has advised the Board that, at the present time, it considers that there is no need to establish an internal Total fees related to non-audit services represented 13% of the total fees for audit function.
The comparative figures represent fees paid to  LLP in its role as independent auditor The matter will be kept under review.
The auditors were also paid 27,000 2015: 26,400 for their audit of Longmartin Properties Limited.
92 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE NUMBER OF MEETINGS MEMBER POSITION ATTENDED 4 HELD Dermot Mathias Chairman Jill Little Senior Independent Director and member Oliver Marriott Member Hilary Riva Member Sally Walden Member COMMITTEE ATTENDEES BY INVITATION ONLY ATTENDEES POSITION Penny Thomas Secretary to the Committee Chris Ward Finance Director Gareth Field Senior members of the finance team Robert Jessett Stefanie Doede  LLP 2015 Independent auditors Ernst & Young LLP 2016 KEY ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT MISCELLANEOUS Reviewed and monitored the integrity of the published financial Planned for year end and Approved non-audit assignments awarded to the information including the year end results, preliminary reviewed the audit plan external audit firm, and monitored audit non-audit fees announcement, Annual Report and half year results Considered the independence Reviewed the whistle-blowing policy and objectivity of the auditors Reviewed significant issues and areas of judgement which have the Considered the need for an internal audit function potential to have a material impact on the financial statements, Made a recommendation Reviewed the Committees performance making any consequent recommendations to the Board to the Board for the reCarried out a robust assessment of the principal risks appointment of the Groups Reviewed the Groups policies on revenue recognition faced by the business auditors by shareholders Met with the Groups valuers to discuss the valuation process and outcome Reviewed the risk and internal control framework, Discussed Ernst & Youngs Considered emerging best practice in relation to corporate reporting including monitoring the Groups risk management and report on the audit internal controls systems and assessed the adequacy Advised the Board on the statement by directors that the Annual Meetings with external auditors and effectiveness of controls and disclosures Report, when read as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable without senior management made in the Annual Report.
The review covered all and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess present material controls, including financial, operational and the Groups performance, business model and strategy compliance controls Advised the Board on the Viability Statement Reviewed cyber security risk Considered the appropriateness of the going concern assumption Reviewed and approved the Committee Report GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 93
