Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP The Board is responsible to Shareholders for the The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration and approval and has delegated the operational continuing and long-term success of the Company.
aspects of running the Company to the Manager.
The matters Central to this is our dynamic culture and the reserved for Board consideration include: robust relationships we have built between the Board, the committees and the Manager, which reviewing and approving Board membership and powers, have created an open environment where matters including the appointment of Directors: can be considered and challenged and good approving the budget, financial plans and annual and interim decisions taken.
financial reports: The Board discussing, approving and implementing the Companys strategy: The Board consists of five Non-Executive Directors.
All the Directors are independent of the Manager, with the exception of reviewing property valuations and valuations of its interest Mark Shaw, who is a partner and chairman of the Manager.
Each rate derivatives: Director will resign and stand for re-election by Shareholders at the Companys AGM in accordance with the requirements of the overseeing treasury functions: AIC Code.
Susanne Given will be submitting herself for election as this will be the first AGM since her appointment.
managing the Companys capital structure: The Board has determined the Companys Investment overseeing the services provided by the Manager and, in Objectives and Investment Policy and has overall responsibility conjunction with the Manager, the Companys principal service for the Companys activities, including reviewing investment providers: activity, performance, business conduct and strategy, as well as developing and complying with the principles of good corporate approving the dividend policy: governance.
approving all investment decisions: and The Directors believe that the Board is well balanced and possesses sufficient breadth of skills, variety of backgrounds, reviewing and approving all compliance and governance relevant experience and knowledge to ensure it functions matters.
correctly and is not dominated by any one person.
Biographical information on each Director is set out in The Board of The Board has not established a remuneration committee as Directors.
it has no executive directors and the Company has no other employees.
The Board as a whole is responsible for reviewing the scale and structure of the Directors remuneration, which was delegated to the Nomination Committee and overseen by Jim Prower as the Senior Independent Director.
Details of the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2016 are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board of Directors p70-71 64 Directors Remuneration Report p90-91 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Our governance structure The Board is responsible collectively for the success of the Company.
The table below explains the responsibility of each Board member and the role of the Manager.
NAME ROLE RESPONSIBILITIES Richard Jewson Chairman of the Leads the Board and ensures it functions effectively Company and Chair of the Sets the Board agenda, encourages an open Boardroom and manages the Nomination Committee relationship with the Manager As Chair of the Nomination Committee he assesses the composition of the Board and whether it has the correct balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence to operate effectively.
Jim Prower Senior Independent Available for Shareholders and stakeholders to speak to as an alternative point Director and Chair of the of contact to the Chairman or Manager Audit Committee Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman Serves as a communication channel between the Manager and the Chairman, and the Board and the Chairman when necessary As Chair of the Audit Committee he oversees the Groups financial reporting, risk management and internal control procedures and the work of its Auditor.
Stephen Smith Non-Executive Director The Management Engagement Committee oversees the Managers and other and Chair of the service providers performance and makes recommendations and proposals for Management Engagement amendments to the Investment Management Agreement Committee The Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge the Manager and, together with the Manager, determine the Companys strategy and ensure that the Company adheres to that strategy within its risk and control framework and Susanne Given Non-Executive Director Investment Policy Provide independent judgement and scrutiny to all investment decisions and Mark Shaw Non-Executive Director review the integrity of financial information and risk management systems.
Tritax Management The Manager Tasked with the day-to-day running of the Company LLP Sources the investment assets and manages the Groups property portfolio Shares responsibility with the Board for communications with Shareholders and stakeholders and investor relations Open and regular communication with the Board on the determination and implementation of the Companys strategy, risk controls and financial management of the Company Advises on investment decisions and both equity and debt capital markets activity.
65 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE: LEADERSHIP Committees The Manager The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to its three The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the Company formal committees: to the Manager pursuant to the terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
The Investment Management the Nomination Committee, which reviews the Boards Agreement is reviewed and amended when necessary to ensure composition and assesses whether the balance of skills, it reflects the relationship between the Board and the Manager.
experience, knowledge and independence is appropriate to As a result of these reviews, changes were proposed by the Board enable the Board to operate effectively: to the Investment Management Agreement in December 2016 and approved by Shareholders at a general meeting convened the Audit Committee, which oversees the Groups financial especially for that purpose.
The Management Engagement reporting, risk management and internal control procedures Committee Report discusses fully the changes made to and the work of its external auditors: and the Investment Management Agreement and how the Boards relationship with the Manager is regulated.
the Management Engagement Committee, which reviews the Managers performance, the performance of the Companys other key service providers and which reviews and, where necessary, makes recommendations on any proposed amendment to the Investment Management Agreement.
These Committees are each chaired by a different Director and have their own terms of reference which can be found on the Companys website or copies are available from the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference are reviewed as necessary by the Board at least every three years.
The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee and the Management Engagement Committee were last reviewed at the end of 2015 and the Audit Committee terms of reference were reviewed in November 2016.
The Company Secretary acts as company secretary to these Committees and the Chairman of each committee reports the outcome of the meetings to the Board.
The Board also establishes further ad hoc committees to take operational responsibility on specific matters for subsequent approval by the Board.
These operational committees ensure that key matters are dealt with efficiently by the best qualified Non-Executive Director and representative of the Manager.
Management Engagement Committee Report p85-87 Nomination Committee Report p75-76 The Board of Directors p70-71 66 Audit Committee Report p80-84 http: tritaxbigbox.
