Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS Good governance is fundamental to our Company.
The Directors were unanimous in the view that the Board and its committees were operating effectively and were well supported It allows the Board to deliver its strategic objectives by the Manager and the Company Secretary, and that the for the Company and safeguard the Companys initiatives implemented in 2015 and 2016 to address the four continued growth and long-term success for the areas identified as requiring improvement in the external Board benefit of Shareholders and other stakeholders.
Evaluation conducted in 2015 had been and continued to be effective.
Those areas were: Board performance and evaluation The Board has adopted a policy of undertaking externally Administration of and procedures for Board meetings: facilitated evaluations every three years and internal evaluations please refer to How we govern the Company : in each of the intervening two years.
The Board commissioned an external evaluation last year, which was conducted by Board succession planning please refer to the Nomination the independent corporate advisory firm, Board Evaluation Committee Report : Limited.
The results of this evaluation identified four areas for improvement and the Board was particularly interested to Director training: please refer to Director Training evaluate the success of the initiatives implemented since Programme : and last year.
Composition of the Audit Committee please refer to the In 2016, at the request of the Chairman, the Company Secretary Audit Committee Report.
conducted an internal review of the Board.
The Company Secretary prepared an online questionnaire for completion, on It was clear from the responses to the evaluation an anonymous basis, by each Non-Executive Director, which that the Board operates in an open and effective manner, covered a number of areas: which encourages robust debate of matters tabled at Board meetings enabling the Board to make fully informed and good Board composition decisions.
It was also clear that the Board information is clearly Board meetings presented by the Manager and the Company Secretary and Role of the Chair is delivered in a timely manner, and that the Board feels that it Strategic aims and objectives enjoys a strong working relationship with them.
In light of the Performance, management and the role of the Manager Companys growth, the Board decided to revise the way Board Risk management and controls meetings are managed to ensure the continued efficacy of the Audit Committee function Board.
Please refer to How we govern the Company, which Management Engagement Committee function provides more detail on this.
Nomination Committee function Each of the three Committees is also performing effectively and The questionnaire was devised to encourage the Board to is well supported by the Manager and the Company Secretary.
provide written comments as well as a rating for each question.
Leadership, Our governance structure p65 Nomination Committee Report p75-76 72 Director Training Programme p73-74 Audit Committee Report p80-84 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 The Board agreed, following the evaluation process, to continue which was spread over two months from her appointment with the initiatives started after the external Board Evaluation and was designed to give her a comprehensive overview of in 2015 and to expand upon the same.
In 2017 the Board will the Company, including its business and strategic aims and hold half-yearly strategy meetings: the Board and the Manager its governance structure.
The Manager also provided a series will fully implement the Service Level Agreement and it intends of meetings with the property sourcing, asset management, to expand the Director Training Programme.
The Board also finance and Company Secretarial teams within the Manager.
recognised that the size of the Company and the number The Companys Brokers, Joint Financial Advisers and Lawyers of its assets now requires a more regimented reporting also met with Susanne Given and she will visit some of the calendar and this, amongst other items, formed the basis of the Companys assets in early 2017. new Service Level Agreement with the Manager see Board Meetings, How we govern the Company.
Director Training Programme The Board recognised as part of the Board evaluation in 2015 that a training programme to ensure that it is kept abreast of INITIATIVES IMPLEMENTED AND DEVELOPED SINCE 2015 both governance and statutory updates as well as commercial 1.
Annual Strategy Review matters should be implemented.
Implementation of the Service Level Agreement training programme was implemented in January 2016 following consultation between the Manager and the Board.
Expansion of the Director Training Programme Board received the following formal training sessions from some 4.
Succession policy review appointment of Susanne Given to the of the Companys external service providers: Board and to the Audit Committee 5.
Directors Remuneration Review MONTH PRESENTER SESSION January Taylor Wessing Directors duties and corporate The Board also determined to continue to improve the governance administration and Board meeting procedures, particularly June Taylor Wessing Directors duties Part II, anti-bribery in relation to larger projects and to consider the inclusion of and corruption, and the Modern the Manager as a respondent to the internally generated 2017 Slavery Act evaluation.
The 2017 evaluation will focus more on the written November Jefferies M&A considerations comments of the respondents rather than the ratings and will include, as part of the process, an appraisal of the Chairman whereby the Senior Independent Director will formally meet In addition to the bespoke training programme, each Director with the Non-Executive Directors and the Manager to discuss is expected to maintain their individual professional skills and is the performance of the Chairman.
responsible for identifying any individual training needs to help them ensure that they maintain the requisite knowledge to be Director Induction Programme able to consider and understand the Companys responsibilities, Susanne Given was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of business and strategy.
All Directors have access to advice the Company and as a member of the Audit Committee in 2016. and services from the Company Secretary, who manages Susanne received a bespoke induction training programme the Companys governance procedures, or the Manager.
73 Management Engagement Committee Report p85-87 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE: EFFECTIVENESS The Directors are also entitled to take independent advice at the Companys reasonable expense at any time.
The Company will continue with the Director Training Programme and the Manager is arranging training with logistics and retail specialists to take place in 2017.
The Company maintains directors and offices liability insurance, which gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
Asset tour In order to increase its understanding of how its tenants utilise the Big Boxes owned by the Company, the Directors went on an asset tour on 18 May 2016 accompanied by the Manager.
The Board visited properties at Marks & Spencer, Castle Donington: Kuehne Nagel, Derby: Dunelm, Stoke-on-Trent: and New Look in Newcastle-under-Lyme.
The Directors also visited Ocado, Erith in February 2017.
It was an informative tour and the Board found it very interesting and useful to see these mechanised Big Boxes first hand and to be able to discuss the requirements of our tenants on site, often directly with the site managers.
