OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committees role is to review the size, structure and composition of the Board: to ensure that the Board has the right mix of skills, experience and knowledge to enable the Company to fulfil its strategic objectives.
The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations for new appointments to the Board and for reviewing the performance and terms of engagement for the existing Directors.
The Committee operates within defined terms of Dear Shareholders, reference which are available on the Companys 2016 has been busy for the Nomination Committee, website or from the Company Secretary.
the highlight of which was the appointment of Susanne Given to the Board in September 2016.
Susanne brings with her a wealth of general and Appointment of a new Non-Executive Director online retail experience and provides an insight In late 2015, two years after the Companys IPO and following for the existing Directors into the needs of and the Companys admission to the FTSE 250, the Nomination the challenges faced by many of our tenants.
Committee identified the need to appoint a further independent We are very pleased with her appointment and Non-Executive Director to the Board, and to appoint a new look forward to a fruitful exchange of ideas at director to the Audit Committee to replace me following my Board meetings.
retirement from the Audit Committee in order to comply with best governance practice.
The recruitment process began in Membership early 2016.
Richard Jewson Chairman Jim Prower, Stephen Smith, Mark Shaw The Nomination Committees first task was to appoint a suitable recruitment consultant for the role and the Committee asked Priorities for 2016 Colin Godfrey and the Company Secretary to undertake this.
The appointment of a Non-Executive Director to the Quotes were obtained from four recruitment consultancy firms Board and to the Audit Committee and three recruitment consultancy firms were interviewed.
Following the feedback to the Committee from Colin Godfrey and A formal review of the remuneration of the full Board the Company Secretary, Korn Ferry was appointed.
Korn Ferry A formal review of the terms of appointment for the is independent from the Company and the Manager and, as far Non-Executive Directors as the Company and the Manager are aware, there is no other connection between the Company or the Manager and Korn Ferry.
The proposal for re-appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the appointment of Susanne Given as a The Nomination Committee then evaluated the skills and Non-Executive Director at the AGM in 2017 experience considered necessary to complement the existing Meeting attendance register Board composition.
We particularly wanted the new candidate to have strong experience in the logistical requirements of MEETINGS ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS online retailers as well as strong general retail sales experience.
PERSON ATTENDED ATTENDED We were also amenable to considering a candidate for whom Richard Jewson 4 4 this would be their first experience as a member of a FTSE 250 Jim Prower 4 4 Board, provided that the candidate could devote sufficient time to the role and we were mindful of the recommendations Stephen Smith 4 4 of the Davies Report and our commitment as a Company to Mark Shaw 4 4 diversity.
We met with Korn Ferry to discuss the appointment, the Company and its strategy in May 2016. http: tritaxbigbox.
co. uk about #corporate-governance 75 Audit Committee Report p80-84 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE: NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Korn Ferry presented to the Committee a list of candidates the Directors.
The Board, following the advice of the Committee, who had expressed an interest in the role.
We reviewed the list, will recommend the election and re-election of each Director at identifying those candidates who appeared to hold the correct the forthcoming AGM.
blend of skills, and requested interviews.
The Companys Lawyers also reviewed and updated the The first round of interviews was conducted by a sub-committee Directors letters and terms of appointment.
Specifically we of myself, representing the Board, and Colin Godfrey and Henry sought to revise the notice periods to be given should a Director Franklin, representing the Manager.
We selected one candidate, wish to resign in order to prevent more than one Director Susanne Given, to proceed to the next stage.
As the Company has resigning at any one time except in extenuating circumstances.
a relatively small Board of Directors and is externally managed, Richard Jewson, Stephen Smith and Jim Prower were all initially the other Board members as well as the partners of the Manager appointed on 18 November 2013 for a term of two years.
Mark were keen to meet with Susanne Given before a final decision was Shaw was appointed on 8 November 2013 for a term of one year.
Over the course of the summer of 2016, Susanne Given Susanne Given was appointed for an initial term of two years met with the Board as well as the key members of the Manager.
commencing on 13 September 2016 subject to election by the The Committee considered her skills and experience, as well Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM and re-election at each as her ability to devote enough time to the position, before we AGM thereafter.
Please refer to the Directors Remuneration recommended her appointment to the Board.
The Board appointed Report for more information.
Susanne Given as a new Non-Executive Director of the Company on 13 September 2016.
She will hold office until the Companys Pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, at AGM on 17 May 2017 when she will be submitted for election by the every AGM of the Company, one third of the Directors who are Shareholders as a Director of the Company.
subject to the requirement to retire by rotation not including any Director who was appointed by the Board and is standing Director remuneration review for election will retire from office and may offer themselves As the Company does not have any executive directors it for re-election.
However, notwithstanding the provisions of the does not have a remuneration committee.
Further to feedback Articles, all the Directors will offer themselves for re-election at received from last years Board evaluation and to coincide with each AGM in accordance with the provisions of the AIC Code.
the Companys third anniversary, the Committee decided to review the terms of appointment of each Director.
As we reviewed When renewing current appointments, all Directors except the the terms of appointment of the Directors it was considered individual in question are able to vote at the Annual General sensible for us to also review the level of fees to be awarded Meeting.
to the Board, particularly given the Companys considerable growth since IPO in December 2013.
Jim Prower as the Senior Board diversity Independent Director led the Remuneration Review.
We regularly review the Companys policy on diversity and consider that the Directors have a balance of skills, qualifications Policy on tenure and succession planning and experience which are relevant to the Company.
We support We considered the ongoing independence of each of the the recommendations of the Davies Report and believe in the Directors as well as their respective skills and experience and value and importance of diversity in the Boardroom but we do not whether each Director is able to commit sufficient time to the consider it appropriate, or in the interest of the Company and its Company, as well as any other external appointments held by Shareholders, to set prescriptive diversity targets on the Board.
Richard Jewson Chairman of the Nomination Committee 7 March 2017 www.
co. uk sites default files 76 Directors Remuneration Report p90-91 .
