OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY For our Company to achieve its strategic Internal control assessment process The Board regularly monitors the effectiveness of the objectives, the risks to its future growth and Companys internal controls and ensures their adequacy.
success need to be identified and effectively This includes reviewing reports from the external Auditor managed.
The Board recognises that this principle details of which are included in the Audit Committee Report, is central to the continued performance of the quarterly reports from the Company Secretary outlining Company.
The main risks identified as the corporate activity within the Group and outlining the Companys most relevant to the Company are set out on compliance with the AIC Code and Guide and proposed future initiatives relating to the Companys governance and pages 54-59 of the Strategic Report.
The Board also receives quarterly Internal controls review compliance reports prepared by Langham Hall UK Depositary The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for maintaining LLP see page 79 for further information.
The Board the Companys system of internal control and risk management reviews the formal bi-annual risk assessment conducted by in order to safeguard the Companys assets.
The Companys the Audit Committee.
Further, the Board actively considers internal control safeguards are designed to identify, manage and investment opportunities, asset management initiatives, debt mitigate the financial, operational and compliance risks that are and equity fundraisings and other financial matters against inherent to the Company.
The safeguards and systems in place the requirements of the Companys Investment Policy and risk are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure spectrum.
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the AIC Code and Guide, it has established a continuing process for identifying, The Board and the Manager have together reviewed all financial evaluating and managing the risks the Company faces and has performance and results notifications.
Non-financial internal reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems.
controls include the systems of operational and compliance controls maintained by the Companys administrator, Capita AIFM Directive Sinclair Henderson Limited the Administrator, and by the The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD Manager in relation to the Companys business, as well as the became part of UK law in 2013.
It regulates Alternative management of key risks referred to in the Directors Report.
Investment Fund Managers AIFMs and imposes obligations on managers who manage alternative investment funds AIF The Board has contractually delegated responsibility for in the EU or who market shares in AIFs to EU investors.
Under accounting services to the Administrator and for company the AIFMD, the AIFM must comply with various organisational, secretarial services to the Manager.
These entities have their operational and transparency obligations.
own internal control systems relating to these matters, which the Board has reviewed as part of its Financial Position and The Manager is authorised by the FCA as an AIFM and provides Prospects Procedures memorandum, which was reviewed and all relevant management and advisory services to the Company, updated in November 2016 to better reflect the operations of including regulated activities.
The Financial Position, Prospects and Procedures memorandum is reviewed and updated annually and the next review will be 2017.
Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties p54-59 77 Depositary Statement p79 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE: ACCOUNTABILITY AIFM remuneration policy applied by the Manager Shares.
Management Shares are subject to a 12 month lock-in As a full scope AIFM, the Manager must apply a remuneration period.
This aligns the interests of the Managers Partners with policy in line with its business strategy, objectives, values the strategy and interests of the Company.
and interests, as well as those of the AIFs it manages or their investors.
The policy must include measures to avoid conflicts Going concern and viability of interest.
The Board is required to consider whether the Group has adequate reserves to continue in operation for the foreseeable The Managers partnership board therefore meets at least future, typically considered 12 months from the date of this twice a year to discuss the remuneration of its entire staff.
Staff report for the purposes of going concern.
are remunerated in accordance with their seniority, expertise, professional qualifications, responsibilities and performance.
The Committee also reviewed the work of the Investment They are paid salaries in line with market rates and, in profitable Manager, along with its financial adviser to support the Viability years, awarded a discretionary bonus from a bonus pool of at Statement which is included in the Strategic Report.
least 5% of the Managers profits.
The discretionary bonus may consist of cash or shares in the Company which form part of the management fee payable to the Managers Partners but which the Managers Partners elect to allocate to certain members of staff as part of the annual bonus.
Please refer to page 87 for further information.
This means that staff remuneration is predominantly fixed and the variable element is determined by the Managers profitability, rather than the performance of a particular AIF.
The Managers Partners are entitled to their partnership share of its profits and losses.
None of the Partners is entitled to additional partnership drawings that depend on the performance of any AIF managed by the partnership.
The Partners remuneration therefore depends on the Managers profitability, rather than the performance of the AIF.
This ensures that the partners have a vested interest in ensuring the Manager remains financially sound.
The annual fee paid by the Company is based on a percentage of NAV, as set out in the Management Engagement Committee Report.
In addition, the Managers Partners are required to invest 25% of that fee net of tax and certain other costs, as described on page 87 in the Companys shares Management Management Engagement Committee Report p85-87 78 Viability Statement p60 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 DEPOSITARY STATEMENT Established in 2013, Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP is We work with the Manager in discharging our duties, an FCA regulated firm that works in conjunction with the holding formal meetings with senior staff on a quarterly Manager and the Company to act as depositary.
Consisting basis and submit quarterly reports to the Manager exclusively of qualified and trainee accountants and and the Company, which are then presented to the alternative specialists, the group represents net assets of Board of Directors, setting our work performed and the US $80 billion and we deploy our services to 90 alternative corresponding findings for the period.
investment funds across various jurisdictions worldwide.
Our role as depositary primarily involves oversight of In the year ended 31 December 2016 our work included the control environment of the Company, in line with UK the review of two equity and two management share regulatory requirements.
issues, ten acquisitions, three third-party financing arrangements and three property income distributions.
Our cash monitoring activity provides oversight of all the Based on the work performed during this period, we Company held bank accounts with specific testing of bank confirm that no issues came to our attention to indicate transactions triggered by share issues, property income that controls are not operating appropriately.
distributions via dividend payments, acquisitions and thirdparty financing.
We review whether cash transactions are Joe Hime Head of Depositary appropriately authorised and timely.
The objective of our For and on behalf of asset verification process is to perform a review of the legal Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, London, United Kingdom title of all properties held by the Group and shareholding of 7 March 2017 holding companies beneath the Company.
We test whether on an ongoing basis the Company is being operated by the Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP is a limited partnership Manager in line with the Companys prospectus and the registered in England and Wales with registered number internal control environment of the Manager.
a review of the Companys and its subsidiaries decision papers and minutes.
