Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Key focus for 2016 Recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts for 2015, taken as whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: Reviewed the Interim Report 2016 and recommended the same to the Board: Monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to Dear Shareholders the Companys financial performance and reviewed any This year we have changed the membership of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: Audit Committee with Richard Jewson stepping down and Susanne Given having been appointed in Reviewed the Companys internal financial controls and reviewed the Companys internal control and risk his place.
As well as overseeing the yearly audit and management systems as well as those of the Manager half-yearly review, the bi-annual valuations and the which relate to the Company: Companys risk management, financial reporting and financial management functions, we have Reviewed and monitored the independence and objectivity also thoroughly reviewed the Committees terms of the Auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: of reference and other areas of compliance and Reviewed and considered the basis of the Viability legislation within the Committees responsibility.
Statement made by the Directors: Membership Developed a policy on the engagement of the Auditor to Jim Prower Chairman supply non-audit services including the safeguarding of the Richard Jewson, Stephen Smith, Susanne Given Auditors objectivity and independence: and Jim Prower, is considered to possess recent and relevant financial Responded to the letter of 1 July 2016 from the Financial experience for the purpose of the AIC Code.
Details of Jim Prowers Reporting Council FRC following review of the Companys experience can be found in his biography on page 70.
Richard Jewson, the Chairman of the Board, sat on the Audit 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The FRC deemed all Committee to enable his greater understanding of the issues facing enquiries closed following the response.
the Company: he resigned as a member of the Audit Committee on 13 September 2016 however he is still invited to Audit Committee meetings.
Meeting attendance register Susanne Given was appointed to the Audit Committee on MEETINGS 13 September 2016.
ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS PERSON ATTEND ATTENDED Jim Prower 4 4 Stephen Smith 4 4 1 Richard Jewson 3 3 2 Susanne Given 1 1 1 Member until 13 September 2016 2 Member from 13 September 2016 80 Viability Statement p60 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 The Audit Committees role is to oversee the External Auditor During the year we considered at length the appointment, Companys financial reporting process including compensation, performance and independence of the the risk management and internal financial Companys external Auditor, BDO LLP BDO.
controls in place within the Manager, the valuation of the property portfolio, the Groups compliance BDO was appointed as the Companys Auditor following a formal with accepted accounting standards and other tender process as part of the IPO in 2013.
Richard Levy has been regulatory requirements as well as the activities the lead audit partner since BDOs appointment.
During the year we met key members of the audit team and BDO formally of the Auditors.
confirmed its independence as part of the annual reporting process.
We liaise regularly with the lead audit partner to discuss Committee membership and terms of reference any issues arising from the audit as well as its cost-effectiveness We operate within defined terms of reference, which are and actively challenge and negotiate the fees payable to the available on the Companys website and on request from Auditor as well as fees payable to BDO for non-audit services.
The terms of reference were reviewed We meet with the Auditor before the interim and annual results and amended during the year to reflect the changes made to are prepared, to plan and discuss the scope of the audit or review the AIC Code and Guide, legislation and best practice.
as appropriate, to ensure its rigour.
We then meet with the Auditor to discuss the details of the external audit or review and consider The membership of the Committee changed over the course and evaluate any findings in depth.
From 1 January to 13 September 2016, Richard Jewson, the Companys Chairman, was a member together In assessing the performance of the Auditor we consider both with me and Stephen Smith.
Richard Jewson is an independent the qualifications and expertise of the team proposed by BDO Director so the Company was compliant with Principle 9 of as well as the quality of the work produced and whether it was the AIC Code.
However the Committee did not consider that it carried out on time and in accordance with the agreed audit was following best practice and Richard elected to stand down plan.
We consider that the Audit team assigned to the Company upon the appointment of Susanne Given to the Committee.
by BDO has a good understanding of the Companys business Susanne Given has experience of sitting on audit committees in which enables it to produce a detailed, high quality in depth her previous roles.
None of the members of the Committee are audit and permits the team to scrutinise and challenge the connected to the Manager or to the Auditor.
The biographies Companys financial procedures and significant judgements.
of the members can be found on pages 70-71 of this Annual Report.
We continue to believe that, in some circumstances, the external Auditors understanding of the Companys business Meetings can be beneficial in improving the efficiency and effectiveness We met four times during 2016, following the Companys of advisory work.
For this reason we continue to engage BDO corporate calendar, which ensures that the meetings are aligned for the provision of non-audit services, such as routine tax to the Companys financial reporting timetable.
The Company compliance, financial due diligence and reporting accountants Secretary ensures that the meetings are of sufficient length to services in relation to asset acquisitions and equity raises in the allow the Committee to consider all the matters of importance normal course of the Companys business.
and the Committee is satisfied that it receives full information in a timely manner to allow it to fulfil its obligations.
These We initiated a review of the Companys policy in respect of meetings are attended by the Committee members, as well the engagement of the Auditor for the provision of non-audit as representatives of the Manager, the Company Secretary services in light of recent changes to legislation made by the EU and the Auditor.
The Committee also met with the Companys and the guidance issued by the FRC in respect of the same.
independent Valuer, CBRE, at the beginning of January 2017 We were satisfied that the Auditor should continue to provide as part of the annual auditing process.
I, as the Committee these services for financial year ended 2016.
The Auditor Chairman, have regular meetings with the Company Secretary prepared a matrix at the request of the Audit Committee and the Head of Finance for the Company and additional Audit to allow us to assess the split between audit and non-audit Committee meetings are convened by the Company Secretary services, as provided by BDO over the past three years.
We used at my request when necessary.
this to review the procurement of non-audit services regularly http: tritaxbigbox.
co. uk about #corporate-governance For further information on Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, The Board of Directors p70-71 see Depositary Statement p79 81 Group Statement of Financial Position p105 Note 15, Notes to the Consolidated Accounts p118 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT in light of the EU Regulation.
In developing this policy, we have financial reports, which include the latest management considered the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard.
accounts, a review and report on the Companys financial model, We have reviewed the terms under which BDO is able to provide substantiation of any dividend payments and a general update non-audit services and are satisfied with the measures put in on the financial health of the Company.
place by BDO to preserve the Audit teams independence and to protect the confidentiality of the Companys business.
Most A review of the principal business risks of the Company is notably, tax advice and corporate due diligence are provided typically performed bi-annually.
A full review of the Companys by separate teams within BDO and all documents and other principal business risks was performed on 30 June 2016 and information relating to the Company is securely stored and 6 November 2016.
The Companys principal risks can be found protected.
The Board has accepted our proposals relating on pages 54-59 of the Annual Report.
to the provision of non-audit services by the Auditor.
We are therefore satisfied that the Audit is independent, objective As the Companys AIFM, the Manager is subject to reporting and and effective.
ongoing compliance under the AIFMD.
As part of this regulatory process, Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP has been retained Since the year end, the Auditor has written to the Company by the Company and is responsible for cash monitoring, asset confirming that the provision of any tax compliance services by verification and oversight of the Company and the Manager.
the Auditor is likely to infringe the EU Directive.
The Company Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP report quarterly to the Board will therefore seek to engage separate service providers for audit and the Manager.
The Manager has, during 2016, appointed a and tax compliance work in respect of the year commencing new compliance officer to assist the existing regulatory team 1 January 2017.
However the Audit Committee has recommended with the discharge of the Managers obligations in accordance that a resolution to appoint BDO is proposed to Shareholders at with the AIFMD.
Please refer to page 79 for a description of the next AGM.
Langham Hall UK Depository LLPs role.
Of the 424,000 non-audit fees paid to BDO, the expenditure The Board considered carefully whether the Company should that was authorised in the year is outlined in the table below.
employ an internal audit function during 2016 and concluded that due to the Companys structure, the nature of its activities Risk management and internal controls and taking into account the controls already in place and, As part of each Board meeting and each Audit Committee more particularly, the external service already provided by meeting, the Directors review the financial position of the Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, an internal audit function is Company and assess any risks in relation to the Companys not necessary.
As part of the internal risk review we identified business model and the Groups future performance, liquidity that whilst the Administrator has its own internal audit and solvency.
To facilitate this process the Manager produces performed on an annual basis, from which the Company WORK UNDERTAKEN RATIONALE FOR USING THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR FEE Reporting accountant on the Companys Detailed knowledge and understanding of the business and the 140,000 secondary offerings requirements of the exercise, having acted as reporting accountant on previous equity fundraisings for the Company.
Low risk of selfinterest and self-review threat, as the work is not used in the audit of the financial statements.
Financial and tax due diligence on corporate Detailed knowledge and understanding of the business and the 86,000 acquisitions requirements of the exercises.
The work was performed by a team independent of the audit team.
The audit team places no reliance on these procedures.
Tax advisory and compliance Detailed knowledge and understanding of the business and the 198,000 requirements of the exercises.
Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties p54-59 82 Depositary Statement p79 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 reviews any findings and takes particular comfort, the Business combinations Company should also independently assess whether these At the time of acquiring a subsidiary that owns investment controls are sufficient and if they operate effectively.
To this properties, the Group considers whether each acquisition end, we have recommended to the Board that an independent represents the acquisition of a business or the acquisition of an internal audit is performed to review the processes and asset.
Where the acquisitions are not judged to be the acquisition procedures in place at the Administrator and this will be of a business, they are not treated as business combinations.
Operating lease contracts Financial reporting and significant judgements The Group has determined, based on an evaluation of the terms We monitor the integrity of the financial information published and conditions of the arrangements, that it retains all significant in the interim and annual financial statements and consider risks and rewards of ownership of its properties and so accounts whether the Manager has made suitable and appropriate for the leases as operating leases.
estimates and judgements in respect of areas which could have a material impact on the financial statements.
We seek Valuation of property portfolio support from the external Auditor to assess these significant Following production of the draft valuation by CBRE, the Manager judgements.
We also consider the processes undertaken by meets with CBRE to discuss and challenge various elements of the Manager to ensure that the financial statements are fair, the property valuation.
The Auditor, in fulfilling its function as balanced and understandable.
independent auditor to the Company, also meets with CBRE to discuss and where necessary challenge the property valuations.
A variety of financial information and reports were prepared The Board receives a copy of the valuation once it has been tested by the Manager and provided to the Board and to the Audit by the Manager and after the Auditor has met with the Valuer.
Committee, over the course of the year.
These included, The Board also met with the Valuer in January 2017 to discuss budgets, periodic re-forecasting and specific papers on the and challenge the valuation and to ensure it was conducted change in dividend policy from bi-annual to quarterly: a review properly and could be fully supported.
The property portfolio is as to the Companys ability to continue to pay a progressive valued by CBRE bi-annually.
The performance of CBRE is assessed dividend and a review of the Companys debt arrangements.
on an annual basis by the Management Engagement Committee This financial information was fully reviewed and debated both in their report on page 85. at Committee and Board level.
The Group had property assets of 1.80 billion at The Manager and the Auditor update us on changes to 31 December 2016, as detailed on the Group Statement of accounting policies, legislation and best practice and areas Financial Position.
As explained in note 15 to the financial of significant judgement by the Manager.
They pay particular statements, CBRE independently valued the properties in attention to transactions which they deem important due to size accordance with IAS 40: Investment Property.
The total portfolio or complexity.
The main areas where a significant judgement is valuation including forward funded commitments at the year required include the assessment over fair values of investment end was 1.89 billion.
We have reviewed the assumptions property and interest rate derivatives, business combinations, underlying the property valuations and discussed these with the and operating lease contracts.
Manager, and have concluded that the valuation is appropriate.
Management Engagement Committee Report p85-87 83 Group Statement of Financial Position p105 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Valuation of interest rate derivatives Annual Report fulfils these requirements.
In outlining our advice, The Group mitigates its exposure to interest rate risk by we have considered the following: entering into interest rate hedging arrangements.
The Group accounts for these instruments in accordance with IAS 39 and the comprehensive documentation that outlines the controls makes additional required disclosures under IFRS 7 Financial in place for the production of the Annual Report, including the Instruments Disclosures and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
verification processes to confirm the factual content: The valuations are provided by the relevant institutions to which the loans are hedged.
The Board has reviewed and approved the detailed reviews undertaken at various stages of the these valuations.
production process by the Manager, Administrator, Joint Financial Advisers, Auditor and the Audit Committee, which Financial Reporting Council letter of 1 July 2016 are intended to ensure consistency and overall balance: I received a letter from the FRC on 1 July 2016 raising enquiries into the way in which the Company reported certain financial controls enforced by the Manager, Administrator and other information in its Annual Report and Accounts for the year third-party service providers, to ensure complete and accurate ended 31 December 2015.
We answered these queries in a financial records and security of the Companys assets: letter on 27 July 2016 to the satisfaction of the FRC and all enquiries into the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the satisfactory ISAE 3402 control report produced by the the year ended 31 December 2015 are closed although we have Administrator for the year ended 31 December 2016, which subsequently improved certain disclosures.
has been reviewed and reported upon by the Administrators external auditor, to verify the effectiveness of the Scope and limitations of the FRC review Administrators internal controls: and The FRCs review was based upon the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and does not benefit from a detailed knowledge of a letter provided by the Administrator that there have been no our business or understanding of the underlying transactions changes to its control environment since 31 December 2016 entered into.
The correspondence does not indicate that the and that all internal controls in place a at the time of the last Annual Report and Accounts are correct in all material respects.
Fair, balanced and understandable financial statements As a result of the work performed, we have concluded and The production and audit of the Companys Annual Report is reported to the Board that the Annual Report for the year a comprehensive process, requiring input from a number of ended 31 December 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced contributors.
To reach a conclusion on whether the Companys and understandable and provides the information necessary for financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable, as Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business required under the AIC Code, the Board has requested that the model and strategy.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are Audit Committee advise on whether we consider that the set out in the Directors Responsibilities Statement.
Jim Prower Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 March 2017 84
