54 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3 4 2 8 1 5 7 9 6 From left to right 1 Phil White 2 Richard Smith Chris Szpojnarowicz, Andrew Jones, Chairman Chief Executive Officer Phil White, Joe Lister, Richard Simpson, Chair of Nomination Committee H Richard Smith, Elizabeth McMeikan, Remuneration Committee Tim Wilson and Manjit Wolstenholme.
N R Relevant skills and experience Board committee key Richard was appointed Chief Executive N Nomination Committee Relevant skills and experience in June 2016.
Prior to this, Richard was A Audit Committee Phil was appointed Chairman in May Unites Managing Director of Operations 2009.
The majority of his executive career from 2011.
That MD role involved Richard H Health & Safety Committee was spent in the public transport sector, leading the service provided to R Remuneration Committee during a period of deregulation and our customers, and managing the privatisation.
He was Chief Executive of maintenance and facilities management National Express Group plc from 1997 across the Groups portfolio.
to 2006, leading the business through Richard joined Unite as Deputy Chief considerable growth both in the UK and Financial Officer in 2010.
Prior to this he overseas.
Phil is currently Non-Executive spent 18 years in the transport industry, Chairman of Kier Group plc and Lookers working in the UK, Europe, Australia and plc, and Non-Executive Director of Vp plc.
Richard spent 13 years at National Express Group where he held a range of senior finance, strategy and operations roles, including Group Development Director and Chief Financial Officer, North America.
Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 55 Formerly Vice-Chancellor of the 3 Joe Lister 8 Andrew Jones University of Hertfordshire, Tim served Chief Financial Officer and Managing Non-Executive Director on the Board of the Higher Education Director of People and Communications R N Funding Council for England HEFCE, was Deputy Chair of the CBI Innovation, Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Science and Technology Committee and Joe joined Unite in 2002 having qualified Andrew Jones is Chief Executive Officer a trustee of the Council for Industry and as a chartered accountant with of LondonMetric Property, following the Higher Education CIHE.
He was 2013 merger of London & Stamford and experience in both UK and international appointed as Chief Finance Officer Metric.
Andrew was a co-founder of Higher Education.
in January 2008 having previously held Metric and Chief Executive Officer since a variety of roles including Investment Tim was appointed to the Board in 2010. its inception in March 2010.
Andrews Director and Corporate Finance Director.
He holds Honorary Degrees from London previous roles include Executive Director In addition to the Groups finance South Bank, Plymouth and Hertfordshire and Head of Retail at British Land.
He function and investment strategy, Joe is universities and is currently, as Chairman joined British Land in 2005 following the now also responsible for People and of Arden University, a member of the acquisition of Pillar Property where he Communications.
Joe is a member of Committee of University Chairs.
was on the main Board, with responsibilities the Council at the University of Essex.
for their retail portfolio and the Hercules 6 Manjit Wolstenholme Unit Trust.
4 Richard Simpson Senior Independent Director Andrew was appointed to the Group Property Director Chair of Audit Committee Board in 2013.
A R N Relevant skills and experience 9 Richard is Group Property Director and sets Chris Szpojnarowicz Relevant skills and experience the strategic direction for all aspects of Company Secretary Manjit qualified as a chartered the property portfolio, oversees the fund Relevant skills and experience accountant with Coopers & Lybrand.
management of Unites co-investment Chris was appointed Company Secretary Her background includes roles as Director vehicles and leads the property and Head of Legal in 2013, following and Co-Head of Investment Banking development activities.
Richard joined General Counsel roles at GE, MTV at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, and Unite in 2005 and has held a variety Networks and other multinationals and Partner at Gleacher Shacklock.
She is of senior roles within the Group.
He is previously an M&A corporate and Chair of Provident Financial and Senior a qualified chartered surveyor and commercial lawyer at Clifford Chance Independent Director and Chair of the a fellow of the Royal Institution of and Baker McKenzie.
Chris uses his general Remuneration Committee of Future plc Chartered Surveyors.
counsel and corporate commercial legal as well as Chair of Cala Group Holdings experience to fuse our corporate and risk Richard has been a Non-Executive of and Chair of Audit at CMC Markets plc.
governance with our business activity.
In CityWest Homes from January 2017.
Manjit was appointed to the Board this way, Chris links his Company Secretary at the end of 2011. and governance leadership role with that 5 Professor Sir Tim Wilson of Head of Legal.
Non-Executive Director 7 Elizabeth McMeikan Chair of Health & Safety Committee Non-Executive Director Chair of Remuneration Committee H A R N R A N H Relevant skills and experience Sir Tim was appointed Knight Bachelor Relevant skills and experience for services to Higher Education and to Liz was appointed Non-Executive Director business in the 2011 New Years Honours in February 2014.
He is a strong advocate of the role experience in customer-focused of Universities in economic development businesses Tesco and Colgate Palmolive, and is acknowledged as one of the where she was successful in driving leading thinkers in University business growth through an understanding collaboration.
He is the author of the of customer needs and an innovative government commissioned Wilson marketing approach.
Review of BusinessUniversity Liz is Senior Independent Director at Collaboration, published in March 2012.
FTSE 250 pub group JD Wetherspoon and Chair of the Remuneration Committee at FlyBe plc.
She is a NonExecutive Director at import export fruit and vegetable company, Fresca Group Ltd, and CH & Co Ltd, a privately-owned catering company.
In November 2012, Liz was appointed Chair of Moat Homes Ltd, a leading housing association working in the South East.
