66 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Further to the appointment of Deloitte Composition of the as the Groups auditors during 2015 and Audit Committee subsequent to the completion of their first The members of the Committee are audit report in February 2016 the Audit set out on page 57 of this Corporate Committee undertook a full evaluation Governance Statement.
The Committee of the audit approach to ascertain the members are all independent Noneffectiveness of the external audit Executives and have been selected with function.
Further to the completion of the the aim of providing the wide range of evaluation of the external audit process financial and commercial expertise we are satisfied with both the auditors necessary to fulfil the Committees duties.
independence and audit approach and The Board considers that as a chartered have recommended to the Board that accountant I have recent and relevant they be re-appointed in 2017. financial experience.
In addition, in contemplation of a change in the As noted in this Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Code effective Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman Statement, the Board delegates certain for our next Annual Report, the of its duties, responsibilities and powers Committee considered whether it as a to the Audit Committee, so that these whole has competence in the student can receive suitably focused attention.
Having regard However, the Audit Committee acts on to the Audit Committee members behalf of the full Board, and the matters experience in both the Higher Education Audit Committee Chairs overview reviewed and managed by the sector and their experience with Unite, During 2016, the Audit Committee Committee remain the responsibility the Committee believes it does have the continued its key oversight role for the of the Directors as a whole.
Board with its specific duties as set out in its terms of reference to reassure Role of the Audit Committee Meetings are attended, by invitation, by shareholders that their interests are The Audit Committee has delegated the Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy properly protected in respect of the authority from the Board set out in its Chief Financial Officer and the Group Groups financial management written terms of reference.
The terms of Financial Controller.
reference for the Audit Committee take into account the requirements of the I also invite our external auditor, Deloitte, The Audit Committee works to a structured Code and are available for inspection to each meeting.
The Committee programme of activities, with agenda at the registered office and at the regularly meets separately with items focused to coincide with key events Annual General Meeting, and can Deloitte without others being present.
in the annual financial reporting cycle.
also be found on the Group website As appropriate, I also invite our internal The Committee reports regularly to the at www.
co. uk about-unite auditor,  PwC, Board on its work.
Deloitte and PwC meet independently of management to During the year, the Committee has The key objectives of the Audit ensure alignment, to update on continued to monitor the integrity of Committee are: respective findings and consider the the Groups financial statements and impact on the relative approaches of supported the Board with its ongoing r To provide effective governance and their work.
monitoring of the Groups risk control over the integrity of the Groups management and internal control financial reporting and review significant systems in line with the enhanced Committee meetings financial reporting judgements requirements under the Corporate The Committee meets four times during r To support the Board with its ongoing Governance Code.
The Committee also the year and attendance at those monitoring of the effectiveness of the determined the focus of the Groups meetings is shown on page 61 of this Groups system of internal controls and internal audit activity and reviewed its Corporate Governance Statement.
risk management systems findings and verified that recommendations r To monitor the effectiveness of the were being appropriately implemented.
Main activities of the Committee Groups internal audit function and In addition, recognising the value of an during the year review its material findings effective whistleblowing channel, the Meetings of the Committee generally r To oversee the relationship with the Committee again reviewed arrangements take place just prior to a Group Board external auditor, including making for the Groups employees to raise meeting and I report to the Board as part recommendations to the Board in concerns in confidence.
of a separate agenda item, on the relation to the appointment of the activity of the Committee and matters of external auditor and monitoring particular relevance to the Board in the the external auditors objectivity conduct of their work.
At its four meetings and independence.
during the year, the Committee focused on the activities described below.
Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 67 The Committee reviewed the half year The Committees assessment of the underlying performance of each asset and annual financial statements and Annual Report to ensure that it is fair, with the external valuers and provides the significant financial reporting balanced and understandable took into detailed performance data to them judgements.
As part of this review, the account the following considerations: including rents, University lease Committee supported the Board by agreements, occupancy, property costs reviewing the financial viability and the r A review of what fair, balanced and and costs to complete for development basis for preparing the accounts on a understandable means for Unite properties.
Management receives going concern basis as outlined below.
r The high level of input from the Chief detailed reports from the valuers and The Committee also reviewed and Executive Officer and Chief Financial performs a detailed review of the challenged the external auditors Officer with early opportunities for the valuations to ensure that they consider report on these financial statements.
Board to review and comment on the the valuations to be appropriate.
The Annual Report valuation report is reviewed by the Chief As discussed above, the effectiveness of r Ensuring consistency in the reporting Financial Officer and Managing Director the external audit function was considered of the Groups performance and of Property prior to sign-off.
during 2016, subsequent to the tender management information as and appointment process of Deloitte in described on pages 20-21, risk as During the year, the Committee and or May 2015.
During the evaluation process described on pages 26-29, business the Board met with members of the the Committee considered: the model and strategy as described Groups valuers and challenged them on independence and objectivity of the on page 5 the basis of their valuations and their core external auditor: the make-up and r A cross-check between Board minutes assumptions, including the yield for each quality of the audit team: the proposed and the Annual Report is undertaken property, rental growth and forecast costs.
audit approach and the scope of the to ensure that reporting is balanced audit: the execution of the audit and r Whether information is presented The Committee questioned the external the quality of the audit report to the in a clear and concise manner, valuers on market trends and transactional shareholders: as well as ultimately the illustrated by appropriate KPIs evidence that supports the valuations.
to facilitate shareholders access The Committee was satisfied that the to relevant information.
Groups valuers were appropriately The Committee discussed reports from qualified and provided an independent PwC as the Groups internal auditor on To aid our review, the Committee considers assessment of the Groups assets.
their audit and assessment of the control reports from the Group Financial Controller The Committee was satisfied that an environment.
The Committee reviewed and also reports from the external auditor appropriate valuation process had taken and proposed areas of focus for the on the outcomes of their half year review place, the core assumptions used were internal audit programme of review and annual audit.
As a Committee, reasonable and hence the carrying including the approach to ensure that we support Deloitte in displaying the value of investment and development the internal audit activity is aligned to necessary professional scepticism their properties in the financial statements the principal Group risks.
The auditor explained their audit Financial reporting Significant issues considered procedures to test the valuation of The primary focus of the Committee, in by the Committee investment and development properties relation to financial reporting in respect of After discussion with both management and the Groups disclosures on the the year ending 31 December 2016, was and the external auditor, the Committee subject.
On the basis of their audit work, to review with both management and determined that the key risk of misstatement the auditor reported no inconsistencies the external auditor the appropriateness of the Groups 2016 financial statements or misstatements that were material in of the half year and annual financial related to: the context of the financial statements statements concentrating on: as a whole.
r Property valuations r The quality and acceptability of r Joint venture accounting.
36 Further analysis and detail accounting policies and practices on asset valuations r The clarity of the disclosures and Property valuations compliance with financial reporting The Groups principal assets are standards and relevant financial and investment properties and investment governance reporting requirements properties under development that r Material areas in which significant are either owned on balance sheet or in judgements have been applied USAF or LSAV.
The investment properties or where there has been discussion are carried at fair value based on an with the external auditor appraisal by the Groups external valuers r Whether the Annual Report and who carry out the valuations in accordance Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, with the RICS Red Book valuation guide, balanced and understandable and taking into account transactional provides the information necessary for evidence during the year.
The valuation shareholders to assess the Groups of property assets involves significant position and performance, business judgement and changes in the core model and strategy.
assumptions could have a significant impact on the carrying value of these assets.
Management discusses the 68 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED During the year, PwC focused their internal Joint venture accounting Internal controls audit work on corporate tax, fund Two of Unites significant assets are its Led by the Groups risk assessment process, management and revenue management.
investments in USAF and LSAV which the we reviewed the process by which the All areas of internal audit were being Group has historically accounted for as Group evaluated its control environment.
reviewed for the first time in 2016 and joint ventures.
Management is responsible for establishing overall PwC concluded that controls and maintaining adequate internal were well designed and are operating The Group adopted IFRS 1012 from the controls.
Internal controls are designed to effectively.
Since PwC first reported on 2014 financial year end which provides provide reasonable assurance regarding internal controls in 2011, it was noted that guidance on how an investor should among other things the reliability of in each subsequent reporting period account for its interests in other entities, financial reporting and the preparation there has been an improvement in the including a definition of control and of the financial statements for external overall control environment.
guidance on how to classify and account reporting purposes.
A comprehensive for jointly controlled arrangements.
strategic planning, budgeting and During the year, Management undertook forecasting process is in place.
Monthly External audit a detailed review of its classification financial information and performance The effectiveness of the external audit for both USAF and LSAV, and following insight is reported to the Board.
process is facilitated by appropriate audit that analysis concluded that there had risk identification at the start of the audit been no material change in its original The Committees work to review the cycle which we receive from Deloitte assessment in 2014 that both USAF and effectiveness of the internal controls was in a detailed audit plan, identifying their LSAV should be treated as joint ventures.
driven by the Group Financial Controllers assessment of these key risks.
The Committee considered this and reports on the effectiveness of internal agreed there was no material change controls, supported by the work of the For the 2016 financial year the significant and accordingly it was appropriate to internal auditor and their reports to the risks identified were in relation to continue to account for USAF and LSAV Audit Committee.
The feedback from the the valuation of properties and the as a joint venture under IFRS 11, with Unite Groups internal auditor on specific areas classification of joint ventures due to the recording its 23% share of the results and of control is tested on a periodic basis inherent management judgment required net assets of USAF as a joint venture using and they request our external auditor to in these areas.
These focus areas were equity accounting, and likewise 50% provide specific feedback and assessment discussed at the Committee and it was for LSAV.
of the Groups financial controls agreed that they should be the principal and highlight any areas of weakness.
areas of focus as they represent the No significant weaknesses were areas with the greatest level of Risk management identified through the course of the judgement and materially impact the The Groups risk assessment process and Committees reviews.
overall performance of the Group.
the way in which significant business risks These risks are tracked through the year are managed is a key area of focus for and we challenged the work done by the the Committee.
Internal audit auditor to test managements assumptions The Group engages PwC to perform and estimates around these areas.
Our work here was driven primarily internal audit activity, with this internal by performing an assessment of the audit function reporting directly to the We assess the effectiveness of the audit approach taken by the Groups Risk Audit Committee.
process in addressing these matters Committee.
The Risk Committee is through the reporting we receive from responsible for the delivery of the Groups The Committee considered and approved Deloitte at both the half year and year risk management framework, which the scope of the internal audit activity to end and also reports from management the Committee has approved, and the be undertaken during 2016 and looking on how these risks are being addressed.
Groups assessment of its principal risks forward on a twelve-month basis to and uncertainties, as set out on pages ensure that the internal audit approach is 22 to 29. more adaptable to the risk environment.
The Committee also discussed and The Board also formally reviewed the challenged the output from the internal Groups principal risks at two meetings audit reviews undertaken in the prior year during the year.
Through these reviews, and concluded that the reviews provided the Committee considered the risk good support for statements made by management procedures within management and that the control the business and was satisfied that environment is solid in the areas tested the key Group risks were being over the last three years.
The risk assessment flags the importance of the internal control framework to manage risk and this forms a separate area of review for the Committee.
Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 69 For the 2016 financial year, the Committee As discussed above, an assessment of Committee evaluation was satisfied that there had been Deloittes effectiveness, its processes, The Committees activities formed part appropriate focus and challenge on the audit quality and performance was of the evaluation of Board effectiveness primary areas of audit risk and assessed undertaken in May 2016 following performed in the year.
Details of this the quality of the audit process to be completion of the 2015 audit.
process can be found under good.
We hold private meetings with Performance evaluation.
the external auditor at each Committee During the year, the Company has meeting to provide additional opportunity complied with the provisions of the Manjit Wolstenholme for open dialogue and feedback from Statutory Audit Services for Large Chair Audit Committee the Committee and the auditor without Companies Market Investigation 22 February 2017 management being present.
Matters Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender typically discussed include: Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. r The auditors assessment of business and financial statement risks and Non-audit services management activity thereof To further safeguard the objectivity and r The transparency and openness independence of the external auditor of interactions with management, from becoming compromised, the confirmation that there has been no Committee has a formal policy governing restriction in scope placed on them by the engagement of the external auditor management and the independence to provide non-audit services.
No material of their audit changes have been made to this policy r How they have exercised professional during the year.
from providing certain services such as valuation work or the provision of I also meet with the external lead audit accounting services.
partner outside the formal Committee process throughout the year.
For certain specific permitted services such as reporting accountant activities Independence and external and compliance work, the Committee has pre-approved that Deloitte can be audit tender engaged by management, subject to The Committee considers the rethe policies set out above, and subject appointment of the external auditor, to specified fee limits for individual including the rotation of the audit partner engagements and fee limits for each which is required every five years, each type of specific service.
For all other year and also assesses their independence services, or those permitted services on an ongoing basis.
The Group tendered that exceed the specified fee limits, the external audit in May 2015 and I as Chairman, or in my absence appointed Deloitte as the external auditor another member, can pre-approve following a robust review: the 2015 year permitted services.
end was the first year with Deloitte as the Group auditors.
Throughout 2016, no fees have been paid to the Groups auditor Deloitte The Committee reviewed Deloittes audit for non-audit services.
During the year, work and determined that appropriate Deloitte charged the Group 0.3 million for plans are in place to carry out an effective audit services.
The Committee approved and high quality audit.
Deloitte confirmed the fees for audit services for 2016 after to the Committee that it maintained a review of the level and nature of work appropriate internal safeguards to ensure to be performed, including the impact of its independence and objectivity.
As part acquisitions, and after being satisfied by of the Committees assessment of the Deloitte that the fees were appropriate ongoing independence of the auditor, for the scope of the work required.
the Committee receives details of any These fees are also benchmarked against relationships between the Group and other listed real estate companies of Deloitte that may have a bearing on their comparable size and complexity.
independence and receives confirmation that they are independent of the Group.
