12 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RELATIONSHIPS WE RECOGNISE THAT THE STRENGTH AND SUCCESS OF OUR RELATIONSHIPS ACROSS A VARIETY OF STAKEHOLDERS HELP US TO CREATE LONG-TERM VALUE FOR THE BUSINESS Our success is founded on delivering great customer service and building strong relationships with our University partners, the communities in which we operate, Students our customers and employees.
Unite Students is focused on providing quality services to its students, at no We are committed to high ethical standards in the way in which we engage with extra cost, to ensure that they have our customers, partners, employees, shareholders, suppliers and other stakeholders.
the best resources and facilities Our reputation as the most trusted brand in our sector is founded on our achievement available.
This includes 50MB s Wi-Fi of these high standards.
access, free fortnightly cleaning services for shared spaces, discounts with retail partners and all inclusive bills and insurance.
We also offer a number of career opportunities to help them develop their employability and life skills.
We have also continued to add to the My Unite app and our online platform, the Student Life Hub which has improved our ability to communicate in real-time with our students and engage with them on relevant, interesting and useful topics.
Students welfare is a core priority for Investors and stakeholders Universities Unite and there are a number of We seek to provide balanced, clear We aim to maintain the strong initiatives in place to help better and transparent communications that relationships we have built with our understand and address the issues allow our shareholders to better University partners who trust Unite facing students, conducting extensive understand the business and our Students to provide students with a research and working closely with strategy, through a programme of safe and secure home that supports University partners to identify and regular meetings, Capital Markets Days, their personal and academic support struggling students.
results briefings and trading updates achievement.
In 2016, we have with its institutional shareholders, equity continued to grow the proportion of analysts and investors.
These provide beds let through University partnerships, opportunities to discuss the progress increasing the percentage of the of the business.
All presentations given portfolio let under nominations to institutional shareholders are made agreements with Universities, to 58%.
We can boost our recruitment by offering The impact the Foundation scholarship In April 2016, we hosted a Capital assurances to students and their had on my academic ability and my Markets Day which allowed investors parents about quality accommodation.
life in general has been immense.
It to view our Coventry portfolio and When we understood Unite was building provided me with a safe, comfortable development pipeline and the next to Wembley Stadium we took the and independent environment a opportunity to interact with our opportunity to take the whole building space I could call my own.
And, most cutting-edge operating platform, for our students at the start of the 2016 17 importantly, a space which wasnt PRISM.
In December 2016, a second academic year.
We believe this will help going to sprout legs and run away.
Capital Markets Day held in London our University become part of the included demonstrations on how exciting regenerated community around Emily Drew PRISM improves and streamlines the stadium, enhancing the experience A student and Unite Foundation our operations.
for our current and future students.
graduate 2016 James Kennedy Chief Financial Officer, Middlesex University STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 13 People Suppliers Charities and communities Our people are at the heart of our We rely on the strong relationships We appreciate the central role that business and our engagement with that we develop with our suppliers we play in the many communities we all of our stakeholders.
We aim to ensure they occupy across the UK.
We work closely develop and retain employees in share our corporate commitment with the local community, from the accordance with the following key to providing excellent service to our early stages of development and themes: Resourcing, Reward, Talent customers and wider stakeholders, planning to providing opportunities for and HR Policies and Procedures, and that they are most suited to our students living with us to volunteer and Diversity and Culture.
By selecting the bring positive benefits to the area in right suppliers through a rigorous which they live.
We are committed to fostering a tender process, we can ensure that diverse and inclusive workforce with they enable us to drive efficiencies In 2016, in support of our 2016 charity, a culture that is rewarding for all of our and improve margins, from both Sport Relief, our students, people and people and that remains engaging an operational and a development marathon static cycling world record and challenging.
We want to maintain point of view.
This enables the holder Jamie McDonald cycled our culture, which delivers high forming of strong, strategic and 43,000 miles and raised 175,000 on employee retention rates and career mutually beneficial partnerships with The Worlds Biggest Virtual Tandem.
consistently high standards of quality This included a static bike challenge and innovation.
in 24 cities where we have student The welfare and professional accommodation and the John development of our employees is a Technology is an important resource OGroats to Lands End challenge.
We have effective for Unite Students and following the systems through which can identify appointment of a supplier, we We also continued our national appropriate, high quality training conduct ongoing and regular vendor volunteering programme, launched programmes for our employees to management activities through in 2015, which allows every employee evolve their skills and grow in tandem collaboration between the a paid day to volunteer for a good with the company.
We also encourage our students process is designed to not only monitor to volunteer and support local and performance against agreed levels, national charities.
For example through but to ensure we continue to take a clothing donations alone we raised leading role in industry developments.
The Unite Foundation continues to support young people from the most challenged backgrounds achieve a degree.
I have worked at Unite Students for Forbo Flooring Systems have been We are delighted that Unite Students nearly 12 years.
I have learnt and working with Unite for over four years took on this amazing challenge and gained so much through my time now, and it is a partnership we are raised such a fantastic amount for here, it really has been a great proud to be part of.
I started off as a with the accommodation designers will help give extremely vulnerable caretaker in Birmingham but I always to ensure we get the right flooring and disadvantaged people in the had a particular interest in electrical solutions for the application, to UK, and across the worlds poorest work and my mentor at the time, managing the giant logistics and stock communities, a helping hand to turn saw potential in me.
With his and the control requirements to ensure projects their lives around.
business help I was able go back to run smoothly, we are pleased to be part college to complete my basic English of the process every step of the way.
Anne-Cecile Berthier and Numeracy exams and move on Head of Fundraising & Partnerships, to study to be an Electrician.
Elizabeth Bushell Comic Relief which manages Sport Key Accounts Manager, Relief, our charity for 2016 Jon Cash Forbo Flooring Systems Unite Students Central Compliance Team
