62 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 EFFECTIVENESS As part of the induction program, each Induction Director also visits key locations to see our On appointment to the Board, 2016 evaluation key themes business operations and properties first each Director takes part in a Corporate culture and hand and the Higher Education institutions comprehensive and personalised governance leadership: we partner with.
Also, they meet with key induction programme covering: This year, we expanded our Board senior executives so from the outset they evaluation to ask searching questions have access to managers throughout the r The business and operations of the about our corporate culture and organisation to help them form their own Group and the Higher Education governance leadership see questions independent views on the Group and its sector: the role of the Board and set below using the learnings from the performance, and the Higher Education matters reserved for its decisions: the FRC report, Corporate Culture and the sector we operate in.
In addition, they terms of reference and membership Role of Boards.
The output was very are given the opportunity to meet of Board Committees: and powers encouraging, with a consensus that with representatives of the Companys delegated to those Committees we have a positive and coherent key advisors.
r The Groups corporate governance corporate culture with strong practices and procedures and the latest governance leadership.
We plan to This induction is also supplemented with financial information about the Group build on this for 2017, using our Home ongoing training throughout the year to r Their legal and regulatory responsibilities for Success brand architecture and ensure the Board are kept up to date with as a Director and, specifically, as a ways of working to develop KPIs to key legal, regulatory and industry updates.
Richard Smiths CEO induction Following Richard Smiths appointment as CEO, a specific induction plan was developed.
Richard already had considerable experience with the Company, but a plan was devised to Collaborative team: reflect his new role as CEO.
This included The Board and its Committees operate meeting with various stakeholders in this as a collaborative team, balancing new role as well as building a development their collective responsibility plan to help ensure Richards transition appropriately.
Comments across into his new role.
the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors were broadly similar, indicating no real outliers or divergence of views.
Questions in Board Evaluation focusing on corporate culture and governance leadership Does the Board have clear agreement on its role in shaping, embedding and overseeing the Groups corporate culture?
Does the Board devote sufficient time and resources to evaluating governance leadership?
Does the Board have visibility over KPIs which measure corporate value arising from Unite Students brand and reputation?
Are the Executive Directors aligned in Unite Students purpose and values?
Is the broader leadership team aligned with Unite Students purpose and values?
Do the Non-Executive Directors have appropriate line of sight access to the business?
Does the Company Secretary provide independent and transparent advice and guidance on corporate governance matters?
Does Unite Students enjoy a high level of trust within its investor base, with a positive say do ratio?
Does Unite Students enjoy a high level of trust within its wider stakeholder base, with a positive say do ratio?
Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 63 Performance evaluation Chairman and Training Each year the Board, its Committees The Board reviewed their training needs Non-Executive Directors and Directors are evaluated considering and considered it important that the The Board considers each of its four among other things the balance of Directors have a broader perspective Non-Executive Directors to be skills, experience, independence and of the digital and technology needs of independent.
Accordingly, the Company knowledge on the Board, its diversity the business.
This led to a Digital and meets the requirement of the Code in including gender, how it works together Social Media Workshop for the Board, relation to members of the FTSE 250 that as a unit and other factors relevant to demonstrating PRISM and its functionality at least half of the Board excluding the its effectiveness.
and user experience in May 2016.
In Chairman, is made up of independent addition, the Board considered it Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, During 2016, this Board evaluation important that the Committee Chairs Phil White Chairman of the Board specifically explored our corporate continue to receive relevant functional was considered independent on his culture and governance leadership.
training such as on accounting, UK appointment to that role.
The key learnings from the FRCs recent Corporate Governance Code and report, Corporate Culture and the Role executive remuneration reporting The Chairman and the Non-Executive of Boards, were used as the basis for this.
developments and accordingly the Directors constructively challenge and In addition, the evaluation considered Committee Chairs attend relevant help develop proposals on strategy, and the behaviours and processes of the external seminars.
The Board receives bring strong, independent judgement, Board, its Committees and each member on-going training on corporate knowledge and experience to the of the Board, including the Chairman.
governance developments, which in 2016 Boards deliberations.
Non-Executive included training on the Market Abuse Directors are expected to commit The Companys policy is to conduct an Regulation in anticipation of this coming approximately 20 days per annum externally facilitated evaluation every into effect during 2016. to the business of the Group.
During 2016, the evaluation was conducted internally.
The previous The terms and conditions of appointment external evaluation was 2014 and the of the Non-Executive Directors are next external evaluation is expected available for inspection at the Companys to be during 2017. registered office and at the annual general meeting.
The 2016 evaluation took the form of a questionnaire asking searching questions of the Board and Committees.
This was conducted on an anonymous basis to encourage frank and direct feedback and the results then collated by the Company Secretary and shared with the Group Board and each Committee.
In addition, the recommended actions from the 2015 evaluation were reviewed to determine progress against them.
