Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 65 ACCOUNTABILITY This is translating into the following Internal control actions and focus for 2017, being driven The Board has overall responsibility for by a senior leadership working group: the Groups system of internal control.
However, such a system is designed to r We are widening our recruitment achieve business objectives and can only channels to bring in increased diversity provide reasonable and not absolute r We are training all recruiting managers assurance against material misstatement.
and the resourcing team on unconscious bias to ensure that we are The provisions of the Code in respect of recruiting the best person for the job internal controls require that Directors r We are ensuring that all customer review and monitor all controls including facing teams are diverse and operational, compliance and risk appropriately representative of our management, as well as financial local community and our students controls.
Through reports from the Boards r We are actively supporting our high Committees, the Groups Risk Committee potential female employees and the Groups Business Units Boards r We are ensuring that all leadership Operations Board and Property Board, roles have diverse candidates on the the Board has reviewed the effectiveness short list of the Groups system of internal controls r We are actively working with for the period covered by the Annual organisation such as Stonewall and Report and Accounts and has concluded Business Disability Forum to raise that such controls were effective our awareness throughout such period.
r We are reviewing all HR policies and procedures to be more inclusive with Further information on the Companys related line manager training internal control framework is set out in the Audit Committee Report on the As regards the Board itself, the Nomination following pages.
The Board delegates Committee considered during 2016 certain of its duties, responsibilities and whether it wanted to set specific targets powers to the Audit Committee, so that for female representation on the Board.
these can receive suitably focused The Committee believes the current attention, but in so doing the Audit focus of diversity and inclusivity should Committee acts on behalf of the full be on the Group as a whole with the Board, and the matters reviewed and development of a diverse and inclusive managed by the Audit Committee talent pipeline incorporating the initiatives remain the responsibility of the Directors outlined above.
The Committee is not taken as a whole.
currently considering setting diversity targets for the Board itself believing this is Going concern not necessarily in the best interests of the After making enquiries, the Directors Group and its stakeholders, but gender have a reasonable expectation that the diversity, along with all other aspects of Group and the Company have adequate diversity and inclusivity, will be considered resources to continue in operational along with its more general remit to existence for the foreseeable future.
consider the balance of skills, experience, For this reason, they continue to adopt independence and knowledge when the going concern basis in preparing reviewing appointments to the Board.
Risk management The Board, when setting the strategy, also determines the nature and extent of the principal risks and its risk appetite in implementing this strategy.
Each year the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and how the Board did this during 2016 is set out on pages 22 to 25. Business model For a description of the Groups business model, see page 5 of the Strategic Report.
