64 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Review of Board composition Committee overview An ongoing review of the Boards Composition composition to ensure it has the correct The Committee consists entirely of balance of skills, experience, independence Non-Executive Directors.
The members of and knowledge.
The Committee believes the Committee are set out on page 57 of the Board has the correct balance at the Corporate Governance Statement.
the moment, but is conscious of the At the invitation of the Committee, developments in digital, technology and any other Director or other person may customer experience and reviews this on be invited to attend meetings of the an ongoing basis.
Committee if considered desirable in assisting the Committee in fulfilling its role.
Group Board Diversity Policy Role We recognise that diversity and inclusivity The role of the Committee is to: at Board level and throughout the Group is critical component of our long-term Phil White Chairman r Ensure that appropriate procedures sustainability.
We are proud of the diversity are adopted and followed in the of the Group as a whole, an organisation nomination, selection, training, made up of employees, who like our evaluation and re-election of Directors customers, are from many different and for succession planning, with due backgrounds and countries and have regard in all cases to the benefits of diverse experiences, perspectives Nomination Committee diversity on the Board, including gender and skills.
Chairs overview r Regularly review the structure, size, Earlier in the report, I explained the Board composition, skills and experience Beyond the Board room and within Unite changes during the year, with Richard of the Board and to make Students more generally, we have been Smith appointed Chief Executive following recommendations with regard to any reviewing our approach to diversity and Mark Allans resignation after 17 years adjustments considered necessary inclusion during 2016.
We recognise this with Unite, including 10 as Chief Executive.
r When it is agreed that an appointment as a key building block of our people to the Board should be made, lead a strategy and that the UK workforce and With succession planning and talent selection process that is formal, rigorous our students are increasingly diverse.
To development a key area of focus for the and transparent remain competitive we need to develop Committee over the years, it has been r Be responsible for identifying, reviewing a diverse and inclusive workplace that especially pleasing that this culminated and recommending candidates for will in turn best represent and support our in the smooth transition of the role of the appointment to the Board.
customers in creating a Home for Success.
Chief Executive role with an internal hire.
This focus on succession planning and During Q3 2016, we conducted an Activities in 2016 talent development has also enabled the anonymous survey of our employees, Succession planning expansion of the roles of our Chief Financial which has led not only to a greater focus Reviewing succession planning and Officer, Joe Lister, and Managing Director on female representation at senior levels ensuring we have a clear talent pipeline of Property, Richard Simpson.
Joe Listers within the business but also broader for future Board appointments this role expanded to include People and diversity and inclusion initiatives.
considers both Executive Directors as well Communications and Richard Simpsons as the Non-Executive Directors.
Specifically to include Health and Safety, Procurement for 2016, this succession planning led to and Asset Management.
This has resulted the appointment of our former MD of in the number of Executive Directors on Operations, Richard Smith, as our new the Board reducing from four to three.
CEO, following Mark Allans resignation.
This focus on succession planning and As an integral part of our executive talent development has enabled the succession planning, the Committee Executive Directors to step up, with a oversees the senior leadership corresponding stepping up in the senior development programme part of a leadership team.
On an ongoing basis, broader skills development programme the Committee reviews our talent pipeline to ensure we are growing and nurturing for future Board appointments as well as our talent and developing our high reviewing the skills we need in our senior potential, high performers.
These reviews are measured against our three core strategic objectives.
The Committees focus extends to developing high performing individuals below Board level, ensuring a deep talent pipeline to secure the businesss long term sustainability.
Phil White Chair Nomination Committee 22 February 2017
