EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Appointment Experience and expertise John Murphy joined Skyepharma as General Counsel in March 2006 John is a lawyer with extensive experience in legal and company secretarial and was appointed as General Counsel and Company Secretary of roles in listed pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies including Vectura in June 2016 following the merger.
Medeva PLC, Celltech Group PLC and Pharmagene PLC.
He is chairman of the BIA Intellectual Property Advisory Committee and a member ofthe EuropaBio Intellectual Property Working Group.
He holds a BScin aeronautical engineering from Bristol University and is a qualified solicitor.
John Murphy General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointment Experience and expertise Dr Geraldine Venthoye joined Vectura in June 2016 upon completion of Geraldine is a UK registered pharmacist and holds a doctorate degree the merger with Skyepharma PLC, where she had been executive vice in pharmaceutics from the University of London.
president Pharmaceutical Development since 2013, having joined Geraldine held senior CMC leadership and scientific roles in Inhale Skyepharma as Head of inhalation business unit inSeptember 2003.
Nektar Therapeutics, San Carlos, California, US, andprior to this in the UK, held scientific positions in inhalation drug delivery at Vandsons Research and Norton Healthcare.
Geraldine Venthoye Executive Vice President Pharmaceutical Development Appointment At Critical Therapeutics, he was responsible for the build-out of the Roger Heerman joined Vectura in 2010 and was appointed to the commercial infrastructure and the launch of ZYFLO CR in the US.
AtMcK Healthcare, Roger supported the launch and repositioning efforts of numerous US and global brands, including UCBs Neupro Experience and expertise for Parkinsons disease and IROKOs Aggrastat for acute Prior to joining Vectura, Roger gained extensive US and international coronarysyndrome.
commercialisation experience in a number of senior roles, including vice president sales and marketing of the US publicly held company Roger began his career in the pharmaceutical industry as a sales Critical Therapeutics, Inc. and vice president, directorof client service representative in the respiratory division at GlaxoSmithKline.
Hereceived his BS from Babson College and his MBA from the Roger Heerman F. W. OlinSchool of Business at Babson College.
Executive Vice President Commercial and Business Development Appointment Gonzalo trained in Internal medicine and Rheumatology practising for Gonzalo fide Miquel joined Vectura in February 2017. six years in Barcelona before moving into the pharmaceutical industry.
Gonzalo has held senior positions including global clinical lead for respiratory Experience and expertise autoimmunity at Boehringer working in early clinical development as Gonzalo has highly relevant medical and product development experience well as the late-stage and launch of Spiriva in Spain and with Almirall ranging from pharmacovigilance and regulatory through to early and late as Director of Global Clinical Development, successfully leading their stage clinical development and medical affairs.
Prior to joining Vectura, aclidinium franchise development through to FDA and EMA approvals Gonzalo was Vice President of Clinical Development at Astra Zeneca in 2012 and previously as their head of Global Medical Affairs.
with responsibility for the overall strategy, organisation, resource assignment and project prioritisation across Astra Zenecas portfolio.
Gonzalo fide Miquel Chief Medical Officer & Executive Vice President Development Appointment Experience and expertise David joined Vectura in June 2016 upon completion of the merger David, a French national, holds a BSc in mechanical engineering and withSkyepharma PLC where he had been executive vice president anMBA from HEC Paris.
David joined Skyepharma from Patheon Pharmaceuticals, where he was executive director and general manager, Patheon France, and more recently global VP, operational excellence.
Prior to Patheon, Davids career included experience with Fareva, Cenexi andCatalent insenior operational and general management roles.
David Lescuyer Executive Vice President Oral Business Appointment Experience and expertise Joanne Hombal joined Vectura in January 2015.
Joanne has a BSc in psychology from the University of Birmingham anda postgraduate diploma in human resource management from theUniversity of Glamorgan and is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
Before joining Vectura, Joanne was vice president HR at Invensys Rail, with responsibility for setting and leading the people strategy for Northern Europe.
She has also held senior HR roles in the financial services and ICT industries and led a number oforganisational Joanne Hombal development and transformation initiatives.
Human Resources Director 54 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016
