AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT To be designed The Committee oversaw the accounting for the merger with Skyepharma, which involved significant management judgement and complexity andwas a key area of focus for theperiod-endaudit.
Neil Warner The Audit Committee during the period consisted of The currency denomination of goodwill in Swiss Francs and ThomasWerner and Frank Condella, who joined following Sterling and the acquired intangibles inSwiss Francs except for themerger, Per-Olof Andersson and me.
Susan Foden stepped the EXPAREL intangible denominated in US Dollars.
As explained in The estimated useful economic lives of the acquired intangibles the Chairmans Statement, Mr Condella will step down from the based on patent expiry for in-market products.
Harmonisation of the Groups accounting policies.
Main activities of the Committee during the period During the period, and through to the finalisation of the report The presentation of direct costs associated with the merger andaccounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 transaction and post-merger integration activities as on 20March 2017, the Committee considered the following exceptionalitems.
principal issues: That the Group continued to have a single operating segment.
Revenue recognition Goodwill impairment testing Milestone revenues often require significant judgement as to the The Committee considered whether a reorganisation had taken place appropriate period in which to recognise revenue.
In the current as a result of the Skyepharma merger and the resulting impact on period, the recognition of milestone revenues was not considered the allocation of the Groups goodwill to cash-generating units CGUs contentious and the Committee concurred that revenue recognised for impairment testing.
The Committee was comfortable with the inthe period was appropriate.
In addition, the Committee reviewed and challenged Skyepharma merger the key assumptions used to support the carrying value of goodwill The Skyepharma merger involved significant management for each of the Groups CGUs, noting that only severe downside judgement and complexity and was a key area of focus for the scenarios would result in impairment.
The Committee oversaw the following key accounting Intangibles impairment judgements andestimates: The Committee reviewed managements assessments of the The alignment of accounting periods between Skyepharma indicators of impairment for the Groups intangible assets.
Where andVectura to a calendar year-end date.
impairment indictors had been identified the Committee considered the assumptions used in assessing the recoverable amounts and The conclusion that Vectura had acquired Skyepharma.
were satisfied that no impairment was required.
The key assumptions underpinning fair values of the separately Alternative performance measures identifiable assets and liabilities of Skyepharma, particularly The Committee agreed with managements decision to present forflutiform as the most significant acquired intangible.
proforma information in the Financial Review as the shorter reporting Thirdparty experts had been used to determine the fair values period and the merger distort results for the nine-month period ofthe acquired net assets.
60 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Taxation A number of firms were approached to tender for the audit and a The Committee considered carefully the adequacy of the taxation notice was put on our website for other firms to contact the company disclosures within the consolidated financial statements.
The criteria for the firms approached was based the Committee reviewed the effective tax rate, the recognition of upon their experience, industry skills and knowledge, their ability to deferred tax liabilities on the acquired Skyepharma intangibles and perform the audit to a high standard and any pre-existing business the deferred tax assets and liabilities arising in Switzerland.
relationships that might affect their independence.
Six firms were Nomaterial uncertain tax positions were noted.
approached and three have been shortlisted.
Each was given access to Directors and Management, including meetings with the Executive The Committee noted that as a result of the increased size of the Directors, relevant members of the Executive Leadership and Finance Group following the Skyepharma merger, the Group is eligible for Teams, before presenting to the Selection Panel and Senior Management.
HMRCs Research and Development Expenditure Credit Scheme RDEC.
The Committee agreed with the presentation of the credit At the date of this report, the selection is in progress and it is intended as Other Income in the consolidated financial statements.
that a recommendation be made in the 2017 Notice of AGM and an RNS will be made confirming the Audit Committee and Boards selection External audit and recommendation to shareholders.
The Committee considers As a result of the tender of the Group audit in 2017, the Committee that it is compliant with the Statutory Audit Services Order.
agreed that Ernst & Young LLP EY would continue as auditors of the Skyepharma Group of companies and support Deloitte LLP Other work in the period Deloitte as auditors of Vectura Group for the audit of the 2016 The Committee reviewed progress of the project to assess the consolidated financial statements.
impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, the revised principal risks of the Group and mitigating actions and the Following the new EU regulations on auditor independence, the key assumptions supporting the assessment of going concern and Group revised its audit and non-audit services policy including the viability for the 2016 financial statements.
introduction of a cap of 70% on what the external auditor can bill for non-audit services as a proportion of the average audit fees Evaluation over the last three years.
The Board and Committee evaluation was conducted by an independent third party, Independent Audit Ltd, who met with Independence and non-audit work performed by the externalauditor directors individually as well as members of senior management The audit of the nine-month period to 31 December 2016 is the and the auditors.
Independent Audit also attended a Committee fifthaudit for the current Group engagement partner, David Hedditch.
meeting in February 2017 as observers of the functioning of the In accordance with the Deloitte and the Groups own policy, a new Committee, its work and its effectiveness.
Feedback from the Deloitte engagement partner will be appointed for the 2017 year-end evaluation will be considered and acted upon and further audit should Deloitte be reappointed as part of the tender process.
information will be provided in next years report.
For the audit of the nine-month period, the only non-audit services performed by Deloitte related to the review of the Groups interim financial report.
In the prior year, Deloitte also performed non-audit Neil Warner services in respect of the Groups interim report and proposed merger Audit Committee Chairman with Skyepharma.
Deloittes fees for non-audit services equated to 20 March 2017 25% of the fees earned in respect of their audit work in the period 2015 16: 613%.
At both the half year and the full year, Deloitte and EY confirmed that their independence and objectivity has been maintained.
Tender Since Deloitte had been appointed in 2007, it is mandatory thatatender take place for the Groups 2017 financial statements.
Thisshould be completed in advance of the 2017 half-year results in order to give a new auditor, should one be appointed, time to understand the business and gain knowledge of the Group and management.
In addition to this being good practice and satisfying new governance requirements, the tender provides the opportunity to determine whether other firms offered a different approach to the audit.
The tender is being led by the Audit Committee with support from the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 61 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Establishment and Terms of Reference Internal control and risk management systems Under its Terms of Reference, the Audit Committee is constituted Whilst overall responsibility for risk management and internal controls byatleast three independent Non-executive directors.
Its role and systems resides with the Board, the Committee reviews the Groups responsibilities are contained in the Terms of Reference which internal financial controls, including the systems for identifying, areavailable on the Vectura website www.
assessing, managing and monitoring financial risks.
Management retains responsibility for day-to-day oversight of the risk management Membership, skills, experience and training and internal controls and provides the Committee with reports on Members of the Committee are determined by the Board, on the the effectiveness of the systems.
recommendation of the Nomination Committee, in consultation with the Audit Committee chairman.
When determining membership, Internal audit the individuals financial skills and experience and knowledge of the The Groups requirement for suitable assurance means that the sector are of importance.
The individual must bring independent requirement for an internal audit function is kept under review.
thought and abilities to the role.
As such, their previous roles and Todate, the Groups scale, diversity and complexity and risk profile qualifications will have a bearing on their appointment to the Committee, had meant that the Committee and Board have not felt that a separate together with the existing members so that at least one member internal audit function has been required.
As the Group increases in size has recent and relevant financial experience and that as a whole, and complexity, this may mean that such a function becomes required.
the Committee has sufficient competence in the pharmaceutical As such the Committee will then report on this to shareholders in the sector that the Group operates in.
Sufficient information to enable next Annual Report, including the systems and processes used.
At to the Committee to discharge its responsibilities is made available present the appropriate assurance is provided via the finance functions from management and the Committee has access to the Company including the Group Financial Controller and risk management systems.
Secretary and to employees more widely if there are any matters The external audit for which the Committee requires further information.
Committee The Committee has primary responsibility for the appointment, members are provided with a tailored induction and receive reappointment or removal of the external auditor.
This includes updates on emerging financial and audit related issues.
determining the fee and scope of the audit and leading the tender process.
The tender process includes ensuring appropriate access Meetings to relevant information and key personnel for all audit firms Meetings are held around the primary financial reporting periods tendering.
The Committee will review and assess the auditor andduring the course of the year.
Papers are provided typically annually including their effectiveness when proposing to the Board one week before the meeting to directors and the chairman of the whether shareholders should be requested to reappoint them.
Committee may hold pre-meetings to discuss matters with management and the external auditor if he feels it appropriate.
Where possible Their terms of engagement and fees are determined by the there is sufficient time between the Audit Committee meeting and Committee and their engagement for the audit is reviewed and the Board meeting in order for matters to be considered and any agreed prior to the start of the audit process.
The scope and the fee further work carried out.
The Committee has authority from the levels are considered, so that an appropriate, effective audit can be Board to seek independent advice if it wishes.
carried out at the fee level proposed.
The Committee reviews the plans in place for the annual audit including work plan and Relationship with the Board resources including seniority and expertise of the audit team.
The Committee chairman provides a verbal update to the Board following the committee meetings.
Any recommendations or further The effectiveness of the annual audit is assessed by the Committee work required on major issues is reported in order to keep the Board including the quality of the audit, taking into account, for example, appraised of matters within the Committees remit.
If there is a their quality control and the contribution of auditor in relation to disagreement between the Committee and the Board, the Committee key judgements.
could report that to shareholders in this Audit Committee report.
Independence, including non-audit services Annual Reports and periodic reports The independence and objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the The Committee reviews and reports to the Board on significant Committee, taking into consideration relevant laws and standards.
financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with Any threats to independence, and appropriateness of safeguards, is the preparation of the financial statements, interim reports preliminary considered with the auditor.
The level of non-audit fees compared announcements and related formal statements.
The Committee to audit fees is kept under review.
The Committee agrees with the considers significant accounting policies and any changes to them Board the Groups policy in relation to the provision of non-audit and whether the Group has adopted appropriate accounting services by the auditor taking into account the relevant standard policies and, where necessary the Group has made appropriate and legal requirements, keeping such policy under review.
The Committee is responsible for approving non-audit services The Committee reviews the Report and Accounts, the related withthe objective that the provision of such services does not information presented with the financial statements including the impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
In doing so it Strategic report and Corporate governance statement relating to considers various factors relating to whether it is appropriate for the audit and risk management.
It advises the Board on whether it the auditor to provide such service, including that the auditors considers that the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, skills and experience make it the most suitable supplier.
balanced and understandable and that the non-financial information Communication with shareholders provided is consistent with the financial statements.
The Committee The Committee is keen to provide shareholders with the information also reviews and recommends to the Board the disclosures in the required for them to understand the process that the Committee has Report and Accounts relating to internal control, risk management, been through to achieve effective oversight of the financial reporting the going concern and viability statements.
The Committee would and internal controls for the Group.
It is intended that the chair of also review, where practicable, information required for other the Committee will attend the AGM in order to meet with and statements where financial information is provided, such as a answer questions from shareholders relating to the Committees release of price sensitive information, prior toBoard review.
activities and matters within the Committees remit.
62 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016
