Resources and Relationships Our Environment Case study: Managing our environmental impact in a proactive and New development Grand Union Studios, positive way is important to us.
We have a varied portfolio Ladbroke Grove of buildings, some of which are true new builds, but most Grand Union Studios is a brand new 65,000 sq.
ft. business of which are older buildings which we have redeveloped centre in Ladbroke Grove, which opened in early 2016.
The while retaining many of their historic features.
It is this that development embodied the sustainable and responsible gives our buildings the character that our customers look procurement, development and construction principles for in their office space.
that we are seeking to embed into all of our developments through our challenging sustainability construction targets.
Short and long-term targets are set and energy, water It achieved exemplary results in respect of our sustainable and waste action plans are implemented for our assets, construction targets, notably gaining a BREEAM Excellent refurbishments and new developments.
These include certication, in part due to its Combined Heat and Power customer engagement and site staff training in order to installation.
Grand Union Studios has an Energy ensure buildings are managed as efficiently as possible, Performance Certicate of A 20 which means that our and initiatives to help reduce our environmental impact customers will benefit from being located in a high and lower building operational costs.
Case study: In all our development work we are conscious of the need Sub-metering for customers to be considerate to our neighbours and the wider public Our new Optergy system is an exciting web-based Building and this is reected in the Grand Union Studios and Energy Management System BEMS that we are development which achieved a Considerate Constructors currently rolling out across our portfolio.
Initially being Scheme Excellent certication and won a National trialled at The Light Bulb, Grand Union Studios and Barley Bronze Site Award.
We recognise that the responsible Mow, the tool allows us to review detailed energy procurement of building materials can improve the consumption proles, enabling us to manage our systems sustainability of our supply chain, and ultimately our more intelligently and efficiently.
It will also provide our buildings, so we ensured that 100% of the timber used in customers with the ability to log in to view their own this development was from FSC certied sources.
We are energy prole, giving them greater control over their committed to minimising the amount of construction waste consumption.
Optergy will give us an opportunity to work that goes to landll and we are proud that 100% of the with our customers, providing support and education on construction waste from the Grand Union development how they can better manage and reduce their energy was diverted from landll.
consumption, as well as accurate billing information.
Awards and accreditations Waste has been a key focus for us over the last year and we have strengthened the relationship we have with our Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark waste contractor to further increase recycling rates across GRESB We gained a Green Star for the second our portfolio and divert waste from landll.
Our recycling year in a row for the GRESB Survey.
In 2015, we rate for the year across the whole portfolio increased to increased our GRESB score from 69 to 76, exceeding 60%.
both the GRESB Average score of 55 and the Peer Average score of 69.
The GRESB survey allows us Over the coming year, we will continue to focus on and our investors to measure our sustainability improving the accuracy of our waste data and our internal performance within the real estate sector.
reporting, in particular considering the benets of a move from gravimetric to volumetric measures and from average weights to actuals.
We are also looking to roll out European Public Real Estate Association an enhanced engagement strategy with our customers EPRA We were awarded another Gold in around waste and how we can work together to the European Public Real Estate Association collectively improve our environmental performance.
We were one of 21 companies that achieved exceptional Targets for the coming year compliance with the EPRA Sustainability Best Reduce landlord controlled communal energy Practices Recommendations in our public consumption by 10% by April 2017. reports and disclosures.
Reduce our overall carbon intensity by 20% by 2020.
Complete our energy reduction targets and action plan Carbon Disclosure Project CDP In 2015, for our 10 buildings that consume the most energy.
we increased our CDP score from 86B to 98B.
3 Reduce like-for-like water intensity to 0.50m by April This shows our investors what we are doing 2017. internally to manage our carbon emissions and Provide more recycling bins at our properties, including protect ourselves from climate change risk.
clothing collection bins for selected charities.
FTSE4Good Index We were once again included in the FTSE4Good Index, which helps us assess our achievements against a transparent and evolving global corporate responsibility standard.
"36""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our People Our people form the heart of our business."
They drive our successes and make our business what it is today.
We want all employees to feel proud to come to work for Workspace each day and proud of what we, as a collective group, can and have achieved.
We strive to create a culture that is challenging and rewarding for all of our people.
We are committed to supporting our people in developing skills to further their career aspirations and to have broader experiences they may not otherwise get outside of their life at Workspace.
Values and culture Workspace head office Our culture is engaging, challenging and focused on performance, with a high level of involvement from senior and executive management.
We have effective performance management systems which ensure that the skills and competencies of our employees continue to develop as the company evolves and grows, in part delivered by identifying appropriate training and development programmes.
We have reward systems in place, based on individual performance and contribution to the Group, that are designed to incentivise superior performance.
We are proud that our culture encourages our people to stay with Workspace for the long-term and develop their careers with us.
During the year, 28 members of staff Repositioned caf at Canterbury Court, achieved long service awards, 23 of which were for more Kennington Park, Kennington than 10 years of service.
A diverse workforce means we are attracting the best people for our business and promoting Males at Workspace, which Females at Workspace, diversity of ideas.
represents 47% of the which represents 53% workforce of the workforce Workspace employs enthusiastic, committed and welltrained people.
We recognise the benets of diversity of skills, knowledge and independence, as well as gender, 101 113 ethnicity and sexual orientation and are fully committed to an active Equal Opportunities Policy covering recruitment and selection, training and development, performance reviews and promotion.
All decisions relating Different nationalities Average age of to employment practices are objective, free from bias and represented at Workspace our people based solely upon work criteria and individual merit.
Workspace has a good record of promoting and 20 38.65 appointing women to senior positions.
The employee gender prole is evenly split with a total of 53% female and 47% male employees.
We are an inclusive employer, which encourages creativity and provides an environment for people to develop and enhance their skills.
Our culture is based on the principles of mutual respect and nondiscrimination irrespective of nationality, age, disability, gender, religion or sexual orientation.
"37""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Resources and Relationships continued Learning and development Number of employees supported We recognise the importance of career development and 2015 16 2014 15 progression, and therefore the ongoing training and Number % Number % development of our people, in order to encourage Number of employees retention and to support our succession planning process."
supported 16 7.5 10 4.8 We aim to have training and development plans in place for all employees according to individual requirements, which Case study: are identied and discussed at appraisal meetings with line Employee development managers.
Nico Riley joined Workspace in 2012 as a Lettings Negotiator, having completed a degree in Real Estate.
Last year, training sessions and presentations were Following two years of good performance in that role, in provided on a wide range of topics, including but not 2014 Nico moved to the Professional Services Department limited to: where he was able to gain vital experience in order to People management complete his Assessment of Professional Competence Social media APC exams to become a qualied Chartered Surveyor.
Customer services As a result of his hard work and new qualications, assisted Networking and events by our support, in January 2016, Nico was promoted to the Business rates role of Investment Manager within the Investment team.
Data protection Energy and sustainability Supporting our people in giving back Training days We have a passionate and enthusiastic team of people at Workspace who are keen to develop and nurture strong 2015 16 2014 15 links with our local communities.
It is important to us that Training days 1,237 631 we provide opportunities for our people to volunteer and get involved in community projects run by our charity Employees trained 173 146 partners.
Training days per employee 5.78 3.05 During the year we continued to work with four key Supporting further education charities by giving financial support, offering commercial Whilst direct workplace training is essential, we also space for their activities and by providing mentoring recognise the importance of supporting our people to support to young people.
Last year, Workspace employees pursue wider learning passions.
We support a range of carried out 29 volunteering days.
development activities, providing coaching and mentoring, sponsorship of further education and professional In addition to the charities we support, our centre staff qualications, as well as providing paid leave to complete develop local community projects, with commitment of recognised training courses that support career staff time to support the projects, as well as drawing on aspirations.
a charities budget which is agreed each year by the Executive Committee.
During the year, charitable donations Over the last year, we have supported 16 people in from Workspace totalled 35,116.
An additional 15,786 undertaking externally recognised courses as part of our was donated to charity following fundraising events held strong commitment to attracting and retaining the very for employees and customers at sites around the portfolio.
best talent, and making Workspace a great place to work.
Furthermore, we provided lettings in kind to charities worth 56,627.
Courses taken included: Facilities Management BIFM British Institute of Targets for the coming year Facilities Management Target two FareShare food drives next year, plus one Marketing CIM Chartered Institute of Marketing depot day.
MSc Real Estate Increase number of volunteering days in the year.
Leadership for Property Development RICS Royal Continue to facilitate and encourage further training and Institute Chartered Surveyors development.
"ACCA Association of Chartered Certified Accountants CIMA Chartered Institute of Management Accountants HR Management MSc Surveying Number of Workspace employees supported in undertaking externally recognised courses 16 38""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Case study: Climbing 4,167 metres for XLP For our employees, supporting our charities doesnt just stop at work."
For six dedicated employees this year it meant ying to Morocco to complete the challenge of a lifetime.
Trekking eight hours a day over six days and climbing 4,167metres to reach the summit of Mount Toubkal in Morocco, our team experienced freezing cold temperatures, unprecedented snow levels and sleep deprivation to successfully reach the summit.
Through various fundraising initiatives both inside and outside of the business, the team raised an amazing 17,000 for XLP, a charity that creates positive futures for young people growing up on deprived Workspace employees inner city estates in and around London and one that volunteering with FareShare Workspace is a long-term supporter of.
D ay two was quite treacherous as there was more ice and snow than the guides had anticipated and we had to slowly make our way across what can only be described as an ice cliff!
Overall, it was an amazing experience though and one that none of us would have missed.
And once we returned and were able to hand over the cheque to XLP, it was all worth it.
Bryony Gerega Development Executive Case study: Fighting hunger and tackling food waste with FareShare FareShare is a wonderful charity that we have supported for many years.
FareShare saves good food destined for waste and redistributes it to charities and community groups who transform it into healthy and nutritious hot meals for vulnerable and hungry people.
That contact with vulnerable people, through provision of food, then allows charity workers to start a dialogue with them and initiate the next steps towards getting them the wider help they need.
Workspace team handing 17,000 Over the last year, 17 of our employees have volunteered cheque to Ian Hiley from XLP with FareShare over eight separate days, helping collect food outside supermarkets, sort food at FareShares warehouse and distribute it personally to the charities and community groups that the organisation supports.
Amount raised for XLP This is a partnership that all at Workspace are keen to see continue.
We are committed to increasing our number of 17,000 volunteers in the next 12 months, as well as holding food drives across our own sites to enable more of our customers and employees to support the charity.
Its really amazing for someone like me, who sits at their desk all day, to get out there and not just help with the physical work but also to actually see the people were helping.
"Tara Dooley Accounts Payable Manager 39""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Resources and Relationships continued Our Communities and running a successful small business is hard work, Our sites have a central place in the many communities we however many are also passionate about their local occupy across London."
It is important to us that these community, and so we engage with them and try to areas thrive and we feel strongly that we have a provide easy ways for them to get involved with and responsibility to help make this happen.
We do this through support their area.
a range of means, including supporting local charities and community groups with funding, the provision of free In the coming year, we will be launching exciting new plans space and enabling, facilitating and encouraging our to help more of our sites engage with the charities and employees to volunteer in their local community.
community groups in their locality, widening our reach and the positive impact we can generate even further.
Our In addition to our corporate and individual employee ultimate aspiration is to make a positive contribution to support, we also recognise that we have a unique each and every community we are a part of.
opportunity to facilitate opportunities for our customers to engage with their local communities, leveraging the impact Targets for the coming year that we can have as a standalone business.
Expand Inspiresme Week, targeting businesses outside of Workspace and a greater number of The nature of our business means that our properties are students.
already attracting New and Growing Companies into these Increase commitment to MyBnk programme by communities.
With this comes increased employment, skills funding a minimum of three more programmes in and prosperity to these areas.
Our customers are time poor the coming year.
Case study: Business Battle with MyBnk Step 5.
This year we partnered with MyBnk to provide enterprise Teams attend a pre-designated market to advertise and education to 15 young people aged 12-19 from XLP through sell the designed products or services to a real customer an initiative called Business Battle.
struggle specically with low motivation and behavioural problems.
Reection A practical evaluation activity is run.
Winners are Business Battle brings together a team of young people to announced and prizes handed out.
create, implement and evaluate their own business idea using real money in a competitive market.
The programme The XLP group excelled on the course, paying back their comprises six steps which are carried out over a week.
loan in full and making a profit of a further 75% on invested capital.
Their first entrepreneurial experience boosted Step 1.
Ideas generation confidence and helped them to realise their entrepreneurial An introduction that inspires young people to generate potential.
B3 Media, a Workspace customer, supported the their own ideas, considering the target audiences wants programme by creating a promotional video of the event.
I decided to take on MyBnks enterprise Step 2.
Product design, budget and costs challenge to develop my skills in business.
Young people rene their ideas into a final design, and then research suppliers to create a materials list within their I really underestimated the amount of set budget of 40. planning that goes into making something as simple as a market stall successful, Step 3.
Logistics and production particularly things like market research Utilising each members strengths, teams delegate tasks to create their product service ready for the market.
and identifying our unique selling point.
Pricing and marketing Young mentee at XLP Evaluating the production process, pricing structures are decided, as well as a marketing strategy to attract and sell Workspace has committed to expanding its support to customers.
of the programme, funding a further three courses in the coming year.
"40""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Case study: Raising aspirations through Inspiresme Week In the coming year, we are considering how to expand Inspiresme Week is an annual event founded by the reach of Inspiresme Week even further, targeting Workspace and the GLA and run by Business in the businesses outside of Workspaces customer base, and Community."
Now in its fourth year, the programme has providing even more students with valuable work gone from strength to strength.
In February 2016, Inspiresme Week saw 71 students from 19 schools across London attend 4-day work placements with 59 of our customers and suppliers businesses, as well as with Workspace itself.
The aim was to provide specic work experience in many different elds, in addition to an introduction to what it means to work in an entrepreneurial or small business.
Following a hugely successful programme, four students were offered further work experience by the businesses they spent time with.
For example, The Travel Advice Centre, based at Workspaces Belgravia Workshops, offered their student a summer placement which she will take up in June 2016.
At the end of the experience, 80% of students said the placement helped them decide what they wanted to do in the future and 76% said they would consider setting The winning team presenting their social enterprise idea to the judges at up their own business.
"the Inspiresme Week celebratory event An Inspiresme Week student working with Hopscotch Consulting at Metal Box Factory, Bankside 41""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Resources and Relationships continued Our Suppliers and Partners Case study: As a business, we recognise that our success is partially Lovespace dependent on the strong relationships that we develop Workspace enters into partnerships with businesses which with our suppliers and partners."
We seek to ensure that all provide added value services to our customers.
One such suppliers and partners share our corporate commitment to partner is Lovespace, a disruptive self-storage business providing excellent service to our customers and wider which collects and delivers, as well as stores anything from stakeholders and that we form strong and mutually ling cabinets to excess stock.
Workspace has been in beneficial partnerships wherever possible, working partnership with Lovespace since 2014 and to date 53 of collaboratively to this end.
our customers have used them for a range of business solutions, including archiving, operations, fide-cluttering, storing stock and office moves.
Lovespace, a Workspace Case study: customer itself and based at 60 Grays Inn Road, provides Working with our suppliers to support local employment our customers with an exclusive discount for the service.
As a business we have long supported XLP, a charity that supports young people struggling with issues including family breakdown, poverty, unemployment and educational failure, as well as criminality and gang behaviour.
We support XLP in a number of ways: nancially, through direct volunteering and also through providing young people with placements on our community programmes, such as Inspiresme Week.
In addition, we are incredibly excited to have successfully helped to place three young people into apprenticeships with some of our suppliers in the last year.
As a property owner, landlord and developer, we are aware of the skills gaps in the construction industry, as well as the new requirements for companies to hire apprentices.
Through our close relationship with XLP, we also regularly meet young people who are desperate for an opportunity to gain skills and employment that will enable them to create a prosperous future for themselves.
It seemed logical to us, therefore, to introduce some of our suppliers to XLP to help create and ll new apprenticeship opportunities, with XLP providing further support and mentoring for the young person once they have been placed with the contractor.
In addition to the three apprenticeships already secured this year, we are currently in discussions with a number of other suppliers to expand this number in the coming year.
We support XLP financially, and also through providing young people with placements Targets for the coming year on our community Facilitate further apprenticeships with our suppliers and programmes customers, with support from XLP.
Continue to evaluate partnership opportunities that add value to our business, customers and brand.
"XLP 42""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
