Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the financial year ended 31 March 2016.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 75.
To ensure compliance with the Code, the Committees membership is limited to Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The right skills The Board is satisfied that I have the required level of relevant financial and accounting experience required by the provisions of the Code, to perform the role of Chairman, having previously held chief financial officer positions in public companies.
I am also a Chartered Accountant and I continue to chair the Audit Committee M anaging risks and being transparent for another public limited company.
continue to be our focus to ensure the The Audit Committee collectively has the skills and long-term viability of the business.
experience required to fully discharge its duties.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any Chris Girling Chairman of the Audit Committee information necessary to full its duties to obtain independent legal, accounting or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, which might be necessary for Composition of the Committee the fullment of its duties.
Chris Girling Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent A clear focus on material issues Non-Executive Director During the year under review, the Committee has continued to review and report to the Board on the Groups Members of the Committee financial and narrative reporting, internal control and risk Maria Moloney management processes and the performance, Damon Russell independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, Stephen Hubbard  LLP PwC.
This report describes the Committees main activities since my last For full biographies see pages 67 and 68. report in 2015.
Role of the Committee The Audit Committee has a key role in reviewing the The Committee is responsible for overseeing internal risk narrative reporting and ensuring the financial statements management and effective internal controls, financial provide a true and fair view of the Groups financial affairs.
reporting and appropriate external audit arrangements.
As part of this review process, we considered the significant financial judgements made during the year Issues covered in 2015 16 along with other key financial reporting issues.
context, we considered the following three significant Effectiveness of the external audit.
issues for which further detail is provided on page 94: Portfolio evaluation.
Valuation of the investment portfolio.
Review of risk including Viability Statement.
BlackRock Workspace Property Trust BlackRock JV Review of significant judgements and fair, balanced and performance fee.
Compliance with the REIT regime.
Areas of focus in 2016 During the year, we also considered, as we do on a regular Ensure that the principal risks identified by the Board basis, the potential for fraud in revenue recognition, scope are effectively managed and that the system of internal for management override of controls and compliance with controls is robust.
regulation including satisfying the requirements for REIT Review actions to strengthen the controls in place to status.
The Viability Statement and changes in the 2014 A description of the main activities and information on the Corporate Governance Code.
other significant issues that the Committee considered Review the significant judgements applied in the during the year can be found on pages 93 and 94. preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Review the independence and effectiveness of the The Audit Committee also received updates from the external auditors.
external auditor to discuss changes in governance and reporting requirements.
Specically, we have monitored the procedures in place to address the requirements of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code around internal control and risk management.
"91""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued The principal business risks facing the Company, which The Committees main role and responsibilities are set out have been subject to robust assessment by the Board, are in its terms of reference."
set out on pages 43 to 51, and the ongoing review and monitoring of the Groups risk management and internal Meetings control systems are described on page 97.
Meetings of the Audit Committee coincide with key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
During the year, The Audit Committee and the Board have considered and the Committee met on three occasions to discharge its assessed the long-term viability of the Company as responsibilities.
An explanation of how we conducted this assessment can be found on page 95 and We also have in attendance at meetings, by invitation of our Viability Statement is located on page 52. the Committee, those people and advisors listed below: Attendee Position Ongoing challenge and improvement Daniel Kitchen Chairman As a Committee we are continually looking at opportunities to improve our effectiveness and better understand the risks Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer and opportunities of the markets in which the Group Graham Clemett Chief Financial Officer operates.
The Committee conducted a performance Vivienne Frankham Head of Finance evaluation of its performance, facilitated by the Company Angus Boag Development Director Secretary.
The topics covered in the review were focused on the core business model and risks, the skills and experience Chris Pieroni Operations Director of the Audit Committee members, independence of the  LLP External Auditors external auditors and the quality of interaction with them.
Grant Thornton Tax Advisers The results of the review were then discussed at the meeting CBRE Valuers held in February 2016.
The outcome of this review was positive and the Committee did not identify any material weaknesses in its effectiveness or operations.
Accordingly, The Committee Chairman reports the outcome of it was concluded that, consistent with the Code and its own meetings to the Board.
terms of reference, the Audit Committee is discharging its obligations in an effective manner.
The Committee has a rolling agenda that ensures it gives thorough consideration to matters of particular importance I meet regularly with both the Companys external auditor, to the Company, identifying key areas of focus and  LLP and the Chief Financial emerging topics as appropriate.
The Committee receives Officer, to discuss key issues relevant to the Committees appropriate information far enough in advance to enable work.
Ensuring these lines of communication are open and it to full its responsibilities.
This includes not only working well is vital to the success of the Committee in information from management but also detailed reports carrying out its work.
The external auditor has the opportunity to meet with the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Audit Committee without any Executive Directors present Report.
At the request of the Board, the Committee also whenever necessary and the Audit Committee ensures advises and recommends to the Board whether the Annual that this happens at least once a year.
During the year, Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced the Audit Committee held one meeting with and understandable and provides the information  LLP without management being necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys present, in order to receive feedback from them on matters performance, business model and strategy.
such as the quality of interaction with management.
To make this assessment the Committee had a detailed In order to ensure ongoing compliance with regulatory work programme throughout the year that commenced developments, the Committees terms of reference are with considering new reporting requirements and overall reviewed annually.
Whilst the terms of reference were planning for the development of the Annual Report and reviewed during the year, no significant changes were Accounts.
That work programme included: made and they are available on the Companys website Comprehensive review of risks and internal controls at www.
including reports from the Risk Committee.
Development of key themes and issues for the Annual In the year ahead we plan to continue to ensure the Groups Report and Accounts given the business strategy, risk management and internal controls remain robust and business model and performance.
to help secure the long-term success of the Company.
Advice and reviews from external advisors such as Chris Girling CBRE.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Review and assurance work of the external auditor.
7 June 2016 Detailed review of the drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts, including a comprehensive review by the Senior Management team.
Considered the requirements to publish a Viability Statement.
"92""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Based on its review of the relevant evidence, the provided its recommendation to the Board."
The Boards Committee was satisfied that the Annual Report and statement on the Annual Report and Accounts is set out Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable and in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 124.
Main activities of the Audit Committee in relation The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial to the year ended 31 March 2016 reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management system, details of which are described on page 97.
The table below summarises the agenda items covered at the Committees meetings during this period: Financial and narrative Reviewed the full and half year results and associated announcements.
reporting Reviewed the Groups Annual Report and Accounts to consider whether, taken as a whole, they were fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provide the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance.
Received corporate reporting updates and considered the approach to the 2016 Annual Report.
External audit Reviewed and considered the PwC Reports to the Audit Committee following the Half Year and Full Year audit.
Discussed the Board representation letter.
Considered the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices.
Reviewed the performance of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Discussed the audit and non-audit fees and independence of the external auditor, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory developments, including mandatory auditor tendering.
Reviewed the Audit Quality Review Report on  LLPs audit findings for the prior year.
Independence and Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures with regard to the objectivity and objectivity of the independence of the external auditor, PwC.
external auditor Portfolio valuation Considered the full and half year valuation of the Groups property portfolio and the external valuation process.
Meetings were held with the external valuers to consider the portfolio valuation.
Taxation and REIT Discussed the Groups compliance with REIT legislation and general tax matters.
compliance Corporate Governance Received updates from PwC on compliance and changes in Corporate Governance matters.
Considered the appropriateness of the Groups Viability Statement and Going Concern assumption.
The Viability Statement and Going Concern is set out on page 52.
Conducted the annual evaluation of the Audit Committee.
Reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee.
Received training and technical updates from the Company Secretary and PwC.
Review of risk Review of principal business risks, Risk Management and internal controls.
Principal risks and Risk Management are set out on pages 43 to 51. Review of fraud risk.
Review of cyber security risk.
"93""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Significant issues The Audit Committee considers all financial information published in the annual and half considered by year financial statements and considers accounting policies adopted by the Group, the Committee presentation and disclosure of the financial information and, in particular, the key judgements made by management in preparing the financial statements."
The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements.
The main areas of focus during the year are set out below: Matter considered Action taken by the Committee Valuation of the The valuation of the investment property portfolio is inherently subjective, requiring investment property significant judgement.
The outcome is significant for the Group in terms of its investment portfolio decisions, results and remuneration.
The valuation is conducted externally by independent valuers.
The valuers presented the year-end valuation to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and outcomes of the valuation, challenging the key assumptions and judgements.
The valuers proposed significant increases in the values, particularly in relation to newly refurbished and redeveloped properties and properties where active management has increased current rents.
These values were discussed in detail by the Audit Committee in consideration of the current market outlook and the stage of progress on significant developments.
The objectivity and independence of the valuers is monitored by the Audit Committee.
PwC also met with the valuers and presented their views on the valuation to the Committee, as well as an explanation for how the valuation is audited.
Based on the above, the Committee was satisfied that the methodology, assumptions and judgements used by the valuers were appropriate and that the valuations were suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
BlackRock Workspace As property manager of the BlackRock JV, the Group is entitled to a performance fee at Property Trust the end of the five-year term of the fund in February 2016.
This is based on the returns BlackRock JV achieved over the life of the joint venture.
Using the valuation of the remaining properties performance fee at 31 March 2016 and the returns achieved over the last five years, the fee is estimated at 24.1m.
In accordance with IFRS recognition rules, this fee of 24.1m has been recognised as Other income within the financial statements.
The Committee has considered the probability of the fee being received and the reliability of the calculation and is satisfied with the treatment in the financial statements.
Compliance with the As a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT, Workspace must comply with specific rules REIT regime so as to benefit from the tax exempt status on its property rental income.
These rules are complex and the tax exempt status has a significant impact on the Groups business and financial statements.
Management monitor REIT compliance on an ongoing basis.
During the year, the Group has been in discussions with HMRC regarding the treatment of overage in the calculation of the Balance of Business Test.
These discussions have now concluded and HMRC have confirmed that there is no impact on the Groups tax exempt status for 2015.
As at the date of these financial statements, the Group recorded Other income of 24.1m relating to the performance fee due at the end of the five-year term of the BlackRock JV.
Recognition of this fee will cause the Group to fail the 75% Balance of Business test for the current year.
Two consecutive breaches are required for the Group to incur a minor breach.
There is no reason to expect that any further breaches will occur and so impact on the Groups tax exempt status is not expected.
In addition, the Audit Committee has considered a number of other judgements which have been made by management, none of which had a material impact on the Group results.
"94""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Viability Statement process The Going Concern and Viability Statements can be found on page 52."
Developing a robust Viability Statement In developing the Groups Viability Statement, the Group strengthened its existing process to ensure risks were identied, understood and assessed over the period.
The following factors were considered: The Groups current financial and operational position and the current economic outlook.
The Groups cash flows, financing headroom and financial ratios.
Assessment of key risks and their potential impact on the business model.
The process we undertook Stage 1: Stage 2: Stage 3: Stage 4: Risk identification Risk assessment Scenario modelling Conclusions We reviewed both strategic For each risk, we analysis The Board was presented and operational risks to considered: For those risks identied with the findings from this identify the principal risks Our risk appetite the as being severe enough to analysis and given the to viability over the period level of risk the Board is impact the viability of the opportunity to question under consideration.
Group, we performed the process and findings.
considered the risks that The controls in place to sensitivity analysis to would impact solvency and mitigate the risk.
understand the potential liquidity either individually The quantum of risk.
impact on liquidity and or in combination with financial ratios.
"Who was involved Who was involved Who was involved Who was involved Executive Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee The Board Risk Committee Risk Committee Senior Management Audit Committee Senior Management Senior Management Executive Committee Senior Management External Auditors 95""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit tendering The Group uses the external auditor for relevant financial PwC has been Workspaces auditor since 1988."
During work for a variety of reasons, including their knowledge of the current financial year, in order to maintain good the Group, the audit-related nature of the work and the governance, we will be placing the external audit out to need to maintain condentiality.
tender, with an audit rotation for the following year ending 31 March 2018.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee is advised of any significant non-audit work awarded to the external auditor Thereafter a policy of putting the external audit contract since the previous meeting and the related fees.
At the out to tender at least every 10 years will be adopted.
annual May meeting, the Audit Committee receive a report of fees, both audit and non-audit, from PwC for the past A resolution to reappoint PwC for the 2017 audit will be financial year.
The Committee has considered in detail the proposed at the AGM.
nature and level of non-audit services provided by PwC and the related fees.
The Committee may challenge and in Internal audit some instances refuse proposals in respect of non-audit Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an work to be performed by the external auditor.
internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Audit Committee.
However, management mandates The Audit Committee will be considering a formal policy a programme of financial, operational and health and specifying the types of non-audit service for which use of safety internal audits at its estates.
These are carried out by the external auditor is pre-approved.
This is in response to qualied senior Head Office personnel on a rotational basis.
the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial All findings are reported to the Risk Committee with any Reporting Council FRC in April 2016. significant findings reported to the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Audit Committee will assess the threats of Audit fees self-review by the external auditors, self-interest, advocacy, Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to PwC can be familiarity and management.
These are set out below and found in note 2 on page 140. considered in relation to PwCs services: Annual auditor assessment A self-review threat Annually, the Committee assess the qualications, expertise This is where, in providing a service, the PwC audit team and resources, and independence of the Groups external could potentially evaluate the results of a previous PwC auditors, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
does this through discussion with the Chief Financial Officer The Audit Committee specically will not allow the and conrmations from the external auditor.
auditors to: Provide accounting or book-keeping services.
 LLP has confirmed to the Prepare financial statement disclosure items.
Committee that: The audit of the consolidated financial statements is undertaken in accordance with the UK Firms internal A self-interest threat policies and procedures to ensure the objectivity of their Where a financial or other interest of an individual or audit report.
PwC will inappropriately inuence an individuals They have internal procedures in place to identify any judgement or behaviour.
aspects of non-audit work which could compromise The Audit Committee will specically perform the their role as auditors and to ensure the objectivity of following: their audit report.
If the external auditor is to be considered for the They believe that, in their professional judgement, the provision of non-audit services, their scope of work safeguards they have in place sufficiently guard against and fees must be approved in advance by the Chief the threats to independence.
Consequently, PwC Financial Officer and the Committee Secretary and, consider that they have maintained their auditor in the case of fees in excess of 50,000 for a single independence throughout the year.
project, by the Audit Committee or if approval is required before the next meeting, by the Audit Non-audit services Committee Chairman.
For larger assignments in The Audit Committee terms of reference establish a process excess of 100,000 this would involve a competitive for monitoring and approving the nature and the level of tender process unless there are compelling commercial related fees for non-audit services e. g. accounting, tax or or timescale reasons to use the external auditor or due diligence work paid to the Group external auditors.
The process requires prior approval by the Audit Committee It does not accept significant contingent fee Chairman for non-audit work exceeding 50,000. arrangements with the external auditors.
"96""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Risk Committee formally reports to the Audit An advocacy threat Committee at least twice a year on strategic and key This is where PwC or PwC personnel promote an audit operational risks, emerging issues and any internal control clients position to the extent where PwCs objectivity as review work undertaken."
The Group aims to continuously strengthen its risk The Group will not use PwC in an advocacy role.
management processes, with the involvement of the Audit Committee to ensure these processes are embedded A familiarity threat throughout the organisation.
The Audit Committee has This is where, because of a too long or too close a reviewed the Groups system of controls including financial, relationship, the external auditors independence is operational, compliance and risk management during the affected.
year with no significant failings or weaknesses identied.
The Audit Committee will prohibit the hiring of former employees of the external auditor associated with the However, any such system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement Groups audit into management roles with significant influence within the Group within two years following or loss.
their association with the audit, unless the Chairman of the Audit Committee gives prior consent.
Annually, the Further information on the Groups risks is detailed on pages 43 to 51.
Audit Committee will be advised of any new hires caught by this policy.
However, there have been no Whistleblowing instances of this occurring.
In addition, PwC will rotate their lead audit partner every five years.
The Group has a whistleblowing procedure by which employees may report suspicion of fraud, financial The Audit Committee will monitor on an ongoing basis the relationship with the external auditors to ensure irregularity or other malpractice.
There is also a process in place for staff to report operational risks and issues to the their continuing independence, objectivity and effectiveness by reviewing their tenure, quality and Risk Committee.
Code of Conduct The Group has a Code of Conduct which explains how Management threat employees are expected to full their responsibilities by This occurs when the audit rm performs non-audit acting in the best interests of the Group.
This includes services and management make judgements based on compliance with laws and regulations: acting fairly in that work.
dealing with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders: The Group will not use PwC for any services which treating people with respect and operating within a control would be considered management responsibility.
Chris Girling Risk management and internal control Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 June 2016 The Audit Committee has a key role in ensuring appropriate governance and challenge around risk management.
It also sets the tone and culture within the organisation regarding risk management and internal control.
Key elements of the Groups system of internal control include: a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
an organisational and management Board structure with clearly defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities.
a Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and is attended by representatives from Senior Management and operational staff.
"97""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
