Corporate Governance Report continued Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder Welcome to the Report of the Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Each year, the Nomination Committee undertakes a review of the Groups succession plans for the purpose of ensuring that the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, continue to be appropriate.
During the year, the Nomination Committee met twice and attendance at these meetings is shown on page 75.
This year, succession planning of Senior Management was a particular area of focus for the Nomination Committee.
The Committee considered reports on the subject in respect of Executive Directors and Senior Managers.
As part of its work to promote a strong and effective culture, the Nomination Committee considered the W e continue to monitor the composition of personal development and training requirements of senior staff.
The Nomination Committee is keen to promote the Board so that future succession opportunities for staff to develop and advance the culture planning is managed effectively.
Daniel Kitchen Chairman of the Nomination Committee Both Chris Girling and Damon Russell completed their first three-year term as at May 2016.
Consequently, the Committee considered their independence prior to Composition of the Committee recommending to the Board that their reappointments Daniel Kitchen should be extended.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Succession planning and development Members of the Committee We have continued to develop and monitor succession Stephen Hubbard plans both at the Board and at Senior Manager level.
The Maria Moloney Chief Executive Officer presented to the Committee details Chris Girling of the succession planning and development programmes Damon Russell for Senior Management.
For full biographies see pages 67 and 68.
Board effectiveness and skills As part of its work on the Boards effectiveness, the Role of the Committee Nomination Committee activities included: Review and recommend the structure, size and Consideration of the number of Executive and Noncomposition of the Board and its Committees.
It is also Executive Directors on the Board and whether the responsible for succession planning of the Board and balance is appropriate to ensure optimum effectiveness.
The Committee promotes the overall Reviewing the balance of industry knowledge, relevant effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
experience, skills and diversity on the Board.
Assessment and confirmation that all the Non-Executive Issues covered in 2015 16 Directors remain independent.
This year, as it does annually, the Board conducted an Reappointment of Board members.
evaluation of its own performance.
It was conducted internally and facilitated by myself and the Company Secretary.
Areas of focus in 2016 Continue to develop and monitor succession plans The results of this review were discussed as part of the both at Board and Senior Management level.
The Nomination Committee Monitor the length of tenure of the Chairman and is confident that each Director remains committed to their Non-Executive Directors.
role: the Board continues to work well and has an Consider the composition of the Board to ensure that appropriate and diverse mix of skills and industry there is an effective balance of skills, experience and knowledge.
The Directors collectively bring a range of knowledge.
expertise and experience of different business sectors to Board deliberations, which encourage constructive and challenging debate around the boardroom table.
"88""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information A stable Board Effective succession planning has been an ongoing priority for the Nomination Committee along with ensuring the Board continues to be effective in carrying out its responsibilities."
With the renewal of the term of the majority of Non-Executive Directors, the focus this year has been on continuing to develop the Board.
Directors tenure as at 31 March 2016 Jamie Hopkins Commenced March 2012 Graham Clemett Commenced July 2007 Daniel Kitchen June 2011 May 2014 June 2014 May 2017 Maria Moloney May 2012 April 2015 May 2015 April 2018 Chris Girling February 2013 January 2016 February 2016 January 2019 Damon Russell May 2013 April 2016 May 2016 April 2019 Stephen Hubbard July 2014 June 2017 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Initial term Duration of current term 12-month rolling contract.
Appointed Executive Director in March 2012 and Chief Executive Officer in April 2012.
The Nomination Committee continues to work to balance Board experience 2016 the skills and experience of the Board members to meet the changing needs of the business.
Financial 16% The mix of skills keeps us relevant and up-to-date with 3.
"Utility 6% 89""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Corporate Governance Non-Executive appointments and time commitments During the year, the Committee also reviewed and agreed In making recommendations to the Board on Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee."
There Non-Executive Director appointments, the Nomination were no significant changes made to the existing Terms Committee will consider the expected time commitment of Reference.
These can be found on our website at of the proposed Non-Executive Director, and other www.
commitments they already have to ensure that they have sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
Diversity The Boards policy on diversity is that selection should be Prior to accepting any additional commitments, Nonbased on the best person for the role and to ensure that its Executive Directors will, in the first instance, discuss these composition has an appropriate balance of skills and with the Company Chairman.
Agreement of the Board is diversity to meet the requirements of the business.
The then required to ensure that any conicts of interest are Board considers that quotas are not appropriate in identied and that they will continue to have sufficient time determining its composition, and has therefore chosen not available to devote to the Company.
The benets of diversity, including gender diversity, will continue to be an active consideration Independence and re-election to the Board whenever changes to the Boards composition are The composition of the Board is reviewed annually by the contemplated.
Further details on diversity can be found on Nomination Committee to ensure that there is an effective page 37.
Gender diversity of the Board and Company is set balance of skills, experience and knowledge.
out below: The Committee conducted a specic review of the Gender diversity independence of Chris Girling and Damon Russell in the year as their three-year appointments were due to expire 2.
The Board on 7 February 2016 and 29 May 2016, respectively.
Female 1 Chris nor Damon was present during the Committees 2.
Having conducted its review, the Committee was satisfied that it was appropriate to recommend to the Board that Chris and Damons appointments should be extended for a further three years, subject to re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 14 July 2016.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors wishing to continue in office will retire and offer themselves for Senior Management 2. re-election by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General 1.
Male 12 Further biographical information on each of our Directors can be found on pages 66 to 68, which shows the breadth of experience brought to our boardroom table.
This year, as it does annually, the Board conducted an evaluation of its own performance.
It was conducted internally and facilitated by myself and the Company 2.
Male 101 Daniel Kitchen Chairman of the Nomination Committee 7 June 2016 1.
"90""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
