Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk Committee Composition of the Committee Role of the Risk Committee Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer The Risk Committees responsibilities include, but are not Chris Pieroni, Operations Director limited, to the following: Carmelina Carfora, Company Secretary To drive and co-ordinate Workspace policy and Vivienne Frankham, Head of Finance procedure and training in relation to risk management.
Kate Ankers, Chief Accountant To promote and publicise risk management awareness David Rees, Finance Manager throughout the organisation.
1 Claire Dracup, Head of Support Services To challenge Executive Director review and appraisal of risk.
In addition, employees from across the business, specically, To co-ordinate and manage a planned annual Centre Managers, will attend meetings of the Committee, programme of review and testing of risks and controls by invitation, where they are asked to share any information aligned to requirements.
which they feel is relevant in order to assist the Committee To oversee and advise the Board on the current risk in evaluating possible future risks to the Company.
exposures of the Company and future risk strategy.
To engage internal or external resource for the review The following also attended meetings of the Committee and testing of risks and processes as agreed in the during the year, again by invitation, in order to discuss their annual plan, or as required.
risk registers and to contribute to the discussions relating To co-ordinate reports and papers for the Board and to their respective areas of expertise: Audit Committee as required.
Chief Financial Officer To review reports on any breaches of risk limits or Development Director controls to the Board and agree proposed action.
Head of IT To consider any developments in the external environment Head of Support Services or regulation which may impact on risk considerations.
Other senior staff Issues covered in 2015 16 The Risk Committee is chaired by Jamie Hopkins and During the year, the Risk Committee undertook the meets every month.
following tasks: Reviewed and discussed the strategic risks for circulation to the Audit Committee and for inclusion in the Annual Report.
Considered the operational risk registers for each functional area and agreed any changes.
Received presentations from Senior Management, concerning controls over certain parts of the business or specific risks.
Agreed an annual internal control review programme which is also circulated to the Audit Committee.
Developed a robust framework for preparation of the Viability Statement.
Discussed cyber security risk and agreed to include it 1.
Joined Committee from April 2016. as a distinct item in the risk register.
Case study: Cyber security risk Cyber crime represents a serious and increasing threat to businesses.
Consequently, in order to recognise the heightened threat, cyber security has been included as a distinct risk in its own right, in our risk register and will be the subject of regular review.
Given the potential impact of a cyber-attack on our operations, it is being closely monitored by the Risk Committee and the Board, whilst monitoring guidance published by both the Government and our external advisors.
"Workspace head office 73""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Matters reserved for its decision The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 March At least once a year the Board reviews the nature and scale 2016, fully complied with the provisions of the UK of matters reserved for its decision and these include: Corporate Governance Code the Code published in Dividend Policy."
September 2014 which is the version of the Code which Company Strategy, business objectives and annual applies to the Company for its financial year.
the Code is available at www.
The application of Succession planning for the Board and Senior the principles contained in the Code is described below.
Detailed reports on the Nomination Committee, the Audit Approval of significant funding decisions.
Committee and Remuneration Committee can be found Review and approval of corporate transactions.
Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the Board to the Executive Committee, subject to formal delegated authority limits.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision can be accessed on the Leadership Company website at www.
co. uk Our governance framework which is shown on page 65 illustrates how our internal processes operate, all of which To assist the Board in effectively discharging its duties, support good governance practices throughout the Group.
Directors receive relevant supporting information, which includes but is not limited to the monthly Groups financial The Executive Directors also provide regular updates to the results, performance reports and risk assessment reports.
Board on different aspects of the business ranging from Equally, the Board routinely considers safety, environmental, progress being made on our refurbishment and ethical and reputational issues in order to ensure that they redevelopment projects, trading performance, the rationale are fully reected in the risk management process.
for acquisitions and disposals and how these are aligned to our strategy and, informing the Board on the discussions Details of the Group strategy are set out in the Strategic held with analysts and investors.
Furthermore, the Boards visit to some of our properties is Details of the risk management and internal control system an important part of them understanding the business first can be found on page 97. hand.
For example, the Board site visits in March 2016 proved beneficial as it provided the opportunity for the Board and Committee meetings attendance Board to interact with site staff.
Non-Executive Directors The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the had the opportunity to meet with local management and year.
It held nine meetings during the year under review.
centre staff, to reinforce and extend their knowledge and Supplementary meetings or Board conference calls are held understanding of some key properties within the portfolio.
between formal Board meetings as and when necessary.
All of these factors provide a different perspective for The Board has a number of standing Committees, namely our Board which enables the Non-Executive Directors to Nomination, Audit and Remuneration to which specic support and offer constructive challenge to the executive responsibilities have been delegated and for which written management team.
terms of reference have been agreed.
Further details of the work of these Committees can be found on pages 88 to 119.
The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the performance The Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the and long-term success of the Company, for its leadership, Board, the Committees on which they serve and the strategy, values, standards, control and management.
Annual General Meeting AGM, and to devote sufficient The key responsibilities of our Board and those matters time to the Companys affairs to enable them to full their reserved for its decision are as follows: duties as Directors.
Details of Directors attendance at each of the Board and Committee meetings during the year Responsibilities ended 31 March 2016 are set out in the table below.
Agree strategic plans and business objectives.
Approve the acquisition of investment properties and disposals.
Review and agree financing arrangements and capital expenditure.
Review the Groups systems of internal control, governance and risk management.
"74""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Scheduled meetings and member attendance Division of responsibilities The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Daniel Kitchen 9 9 10 10 2 2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, and the division of responsibilities has been clearly established."
Jamie Hopkins 9 9 Graham Clemett 9 9 The Chairman, Daniel Kitchen, is primarily responsible for 1 Chris Girling 9 9 3 3 10 10 1 2 the operation and leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive Officer, Jamie Hopkins, Damon Russell 9 9 3 3 10 10 2 2 has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is Maria Moloney 9 9 3 3 10 10 2 2 accountable to the Board for the financial and operational Stephen Hubbard 9 9 3 3 10 10 2 2 performance of the Group and the determination of the strategy and achievement of its objectives.
Chris Girling did not attend one meeting of the Nomination The Chairman Committee as the business of the meeting was in relation to his The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that reappointment as a Director of the Company.
important matters, in particular strategic issues, receive adequate time and attention at meetings.
The Chairman Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they are facilitates the effective contribution of the Non-Executive still provided with papers in advance of the meeting and Directors and ensures all Directors receive accurate, timely their comments, as appropriate, are provided to the Board and clear information.
He is also responsible for effective or the Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
communication between the Board and shareholders.
The Chairman is not involved in an executive capacity in any of Board Committees the Groups activities.
The Board has a number of standing Committees, namely the Remuneration, Audit, and Nomination Committees, to During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings enable the Board to operate effectively and ensure a and informal dinners with the Non-Executive Directors, strong governance framework.
without the Executive Directors being present.
The discussions largely revolved around succession planning Each Committee has written terms of reference which were and other matters of interest.
reviewed by each of the Committees and the Board during the year.
The terms of reference for the Nomination, Audit When Daniel Kitchen became Chairman in July 2011, he was and Remuneration Committees are available for inspection considered to be independent on appointment.
The Board on the Companys website at www.
co. uk considers the Chairman to be independent.
Each of these Committees is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors of the Company who are The Senior Independent Director, Chris Girling, is available appointed by the Board.
Board members receive minutes to provide an alternative communication channel for of meetings of all the Boards Committees and can request shareholders if required.
He can also deputise for the presentations or reports on areas of interest.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
The Senior Independent Director also chairs an annual meeting of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, The activity of each Committee is described on pages 88 without the Chairman present, to appraise the Chairmans to 119. performance and address any other matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
The Senior Independent Director conveys the outcome of these discussions to the Chairman.
"75""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership structure The leadership of the Company is based on strong and from external advisors to ensure that its judgements are effective governance through information and knowledge based on sound and timely information."
For that reason, sharing throughout the business.
In discharging its we do not show our Governance as a traditional hierarchy obligations, along with their own skills and experience, the but as the Board table and all of those who provide input to Board draws on the expertise throughout the business and the Boards work.
The Board Board Committees Executive Directors Nomination Committee Role: To continually develop the skills and experience of Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer the Board and to meet the changing needs of the business.
Role: With extensive experience in the property sector, Jamie provides strategic direction for the Company, Audit Committee business development and investor relations.
Role: To review and report on the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management process.
Graham Clemett, Chief Financial Officer Role: To manage the Groups financial activity, Graham Remuneration Committee has extensive experience in finance and banking.
Role: To ensure that remuneration arrangements underpin the Groups strategy and to attract and retain critical talent.
Non-Executive Directors Internal Committees Daniel Kitchen, Non-Executive Chairman Role: As Chairman of the Board, Daniel is also Chairman Executive Committee of the Nomination Committee.
He brings independence and strong leadership skills.
Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer Role: Overall management of the Company strategy, Chris Girling, Senior Independent Non-Executive investor relations and daily operations of the Group.
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Role: To independently advise the Board, Chris has a Graham Clemett, Chief Financial Officer detailed knowledge of risk assessment and infrastructure Role: Overseeing the Groups financial activity, treasury tax, development experience.
Company secretarial and governance, and managing the Groups IT strategy.
Maria Moloney, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Angus Boag, Development Director Role: Maria brings a wealth of experience from a legal Role: Responsible for the planning and development of background, as well as property and telecoms.
properties, managing the portfolio and Corporate Social Responsibility.
Damon Russell, Non-Executive Director Role: Member of the Remuneration, Nomination and Chris Pieroni, Operations Director Audit Committees.
Damon brings extensive TMT Role: To manage the Company assets, professional experience to the Board.
services and overall business operations and development.
Stephen Hubbard, Non-Executive Director Investment Committee Role: Stephen has a wealth of experience in the property Role: To ensure that any significant expenditures across sector.
As a member of each of the Board Committees he the business are made in support of the Company strategy.
provides further independent advice to the Board.
Risk Committee Role: To manage strategic and operational risks in each Company Secretary functional area of the business and assess internal controls.
Carmelina Carfora, Company Secretary Role: Carmelina is Secretary to the Board and its Senior Management Committees, providing governance and compliance advice.
Role: To assist the CEO in managing the day-to-day activities of the Group.
External Independent Auditors Role: To audit the financial and non-financial matters within the Group to ensure the Companys compliance with applicable accounting standards, laws and regulation and report to shareholders.
Independent advisors Role: To advise the Board on valuation, legal matters and market developments.
"76""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 s G s o e v n e i s r n u a b n e c h e t, r f i o s k e c a n n a d m i n r o t f e r r n e a p l g c n o i n d t a r r o T l K n o w y l t e i v i d t c g Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Leadership structure Chris Girling Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Daniel Kitchen Maria Moloney Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman Director Graham Clemett Damon Russell Chief Financial Non-Executive Officer Director A unique mix Jamie Hopkins Stephen Hubbard Chief Executive Non-Executive of skills, inputs Officer Director and insights Our leadership provides agile and responsive decision-making to keep pace with a dynamic marketplace within the safeguards of a sound governance framework."
"Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer 77""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 a e d r s a o h B a r i n g e v i t c e S j b u o c c s e s s e s n i i o s n u b p l d a n n a n i y n g g e t a r t S Corporate Governance Report continued Board activities in 2015 16 In the Boardroom: The Board met formally throughout the year, with main meetings timed around the financial calendar and additional meetings convened to consider an annual cycle of topics including the annual strategy day, key management and financial updates, review of risk as well as the approval of acquisitions and refurbishment programmes."
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during the year is shown on page 75.
Engaging with the business: In March 2016, as part of a planned Board tour, the Board and members of the Executive Committee visited four properties: Angel House, Angel Canalot Studios, Ladbroke Grove Grand Union Studios, Ladbroke Grove Westbourne Studios, Portobello The Board also met with centre staff and customers.
"78""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The following six areas represent the primary focus of the 2."
Trading performance Board in discharging its governance obligations and The Board regularly monitors performance and the balance promoting the overall performance and long-term growth sheet to assess whether the strategy is effective and of the business.
whether the business model is responding and adapting to customer needs and overall trends and conditions in the London property market.
Strategy The Board plays an active role in ensuring that the business has Progress in 2015 16 the right strategy for current and expected market conditions.
Reviewed monthly performance against budget and other finance matters, including budgets and business plans.
Progress in 2015 16 Considered, in detail, the annual and interim results, Held a review of strategy with the Executive Directors interim management statements and dividends.
and other members of the Senior Management team.
Discussed treasury and cash management matters.
Received an overview of the annual Capital Markets Day Discussed Group tax matters.
with analysts and investors which was held in October 2015.
Received updates on market and broker reports.
Held a separate meeting with the Chief Executive Officer to review succession planning.
These sites were selected for the Board tour as they represented a good cross section of activity within the business, comprising a redevelopment, a past refurbishment, a repositioning and a new acquisition.
The full calendar of events undertaken by the Board are detailed on pages 79 to 81.
Angel House, Angel Acquired June 2015 This property is currently undergoing a planned refurbishment of reception and common parts.
"79""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued 3."
Governance, risk and internal controls Maximising the value of our properties requires the Board Robust governance and risk management are crucial to the to approve investment decisions based on robust market Boards role in protecting the business balance sheet along data and financial analysis.
The Board reviews and with maximising opportunities for growth and returns.
The challenges the valuation of the portfolio and reviews and Board regularly reviews governance requirements and approves major development projects.
assesses the adequacy of risk management including the effectiveness of internal controls and risk reporting.
Progress in 2015 16 Considered and approved the property valuations Progress in 2015 16 performed by CBRE.
Regularly reviewed the principal risks and risk appetite.
Approval of redevelopment activity and major Received reports on Health and Safety and the activity refurbishments.
undertaken in terms of staff training and audits being Significant investment decisions including five property undertaken.
acquisitions during the year of 101m and we realised Received reports on governance issues, including legal 95m from the disposal of six industrial properties.
This also included an overview Received updates from the Development Director on of the new Market Abuse Regulations provided by the the status of planning consents.
Company legal advisers in March 2016 and other specific updates provided by the Auditors, PwC.
Considered the AGM resolutions and voting outcomes.
Conducted a review of the Companys Viability Statement.
Canalot Studios, Ladbroke Grove Acquired December 2002 This property has undergone major refurbishment works over the last 10 years.
Grand Union Studios, Ladbroke Grove Acquired July 1987 A brand new building completed in December 2015 following a mixed-use redevelopment scheme.
"80""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 5."
Succession planning and Board performance The Board is committed to active dialogue with The Board understands that the strength of its governance shareholders and seeking their views on relevant relies on having the right mix of skills and experience governance matters.
around the Board room table and ensuring there is continuity in Board membership.
The Board conducts a Progress in 2015 16 rigorous evaluation of its performance each year and Reviewed reports from the Companys brokers on actively plans for succession.
shareholder feedback from the Annual Capital Markets Day and meetings with the Chief Executive Officer and Progress in 2015 16 Chief Financial Officer.
Conducted the Board evaluation for the period to Reviewed the 2015 AGM Shareholder Circular and proxy 31 March 2016 and reviewed the actions arising from voting figures.
the external Board Evaluation conducted in 2015.
Conducted a review of succession planning for the Board and Senior Managers and discussed training and development requirements.
Regular agenda items discussed: In addition to the matters noted, the Board regularly receive briefings from senior staff and external advisors.
It considers matters such as compliance with legislation, employee relations and other relevant issues to ensure there is a strong focus on promoting a positive and innovative culture throughout the business.
Westbourne Studios, Portobello Acquired January 2002 A long-held asset in our like-for-like portfolio which we continue to upgrade, most recently having refreshed the atrium.
"81""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Appointments to the Board Effectiveness The Nomination Committee, is chaired by Daniel Kitchen, Board composition the Company Chairman and comprises all of the NonAs at 31 March 2016, the Board comprised the Chairman, Executive Directors."
As needs arise, the Committee is two Executive Directors and four Independent Nonassisted by external search consultants.
The Committee ensures that there is a formal, rigorous Further biographical information on each of our Directors and transparent procedure for the appointment of new can be found on pages 66 to 68, which shows the breadth Directors, with the first step being a detailed evaluation of of their skills and experience and membership to the the current composition of the Board, taking into account Committees.
All of our Directors have significant the balance of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity.
experience and knowledge of the sector in which we operate.
The Non-Executive Directors bring industry The Committee then prepares a candidate specication for experience from a wide range of backgrounds.
The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital There has been no Board Director recruitment activity for to the success of the Company.
The Board considers there the year under review.
to be an appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors required to lead the business and In accordance with the Code, all Directors wishing to safeguard the interest of shareholders.
The Boards current continue will retire and offer themselves for re-election composition of a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on Directors and four Independent Non-Executive Directors 14 July 2016. meets the requirement of the Code for at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be independent NonThe Nomination Committees terms of reference can be Executive Directors.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors Further work of the Nomination Committee can be found The Board has considered the independence of all of the on pages 88 to 90.
Non-Executive Directors and concluded that each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent Independent advice of the executive management and free from any business The Directors can, for the purpose of discharging their or other relationship which could materially interfere with duties, obtain independent professional advice at the the exercise of their independent judgement.
No Director had reason to use this Executive Directors act in a robustly independent manner facility during the year.
and bring constructive challenge to Board discussions and independent decision-making to their Board and Business experience and skills of the Board Committee duties.
The Board currently has seven Directors that bring considerable and diverse experience which enables them During the year, the independence of Stephen Hubbard, to make a valuable contribution to the Group.
The Board is satisfied that he experience, gained from varied commercial backgrounds, remains independent and has established a protocol to includes technology, property, marketing and finance, ensure that Stephen has no involvement, at any stage, in which enables them to support the executive team in the Groups valuation exercise.
He also takes no part in any delivering the Companys strategy.
of the discussions concerning CBREs role and fees.
The Board is actively considering diversity and believes this The Board believes that no long-standing relationship to be an important factor when considering appointments which may be deemed to compromise independence has to the Board.
As part of the recruitment process, the been formed with any of the Executive Directors or senior composition of the Board will be kept under review to executives at Workspace.
ensure the best balance of gender, skills and experience is maintained.
Further details on our diversity policy can be The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the found on page 37. composition of the Board to ensure that it has an appropriate and diverse mix of skills, experience, The mix and diverse range of skills create a highly effective independence and knowledge of the Group.
Each Director Board, with the Directors individual and complementary brings a particular range of skills and expertise to the qualities encouraging a high level of debate at Board deliberations of the Board.
Details of the business experience and skills held by each Director can be found in the Directors biographies section of this Annual Report on pages 66 to 68.
"82""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Commitment We recognise that our Directors have a diverse range of The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive experience, and so we encourage them to attend external Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Companys seminars and briengs at the Companys expense in areas business."
Non-Executive Directors are advised on considered appropriate for their professional development.
appointment of the time required to full the role and Furthermore, through participation at meetings and asked to confirm that they can make the required through visits to estates, meetings with Senior commitment.
Letters of appointment for the NonManagement and advisers, Directors also increase their Executive Directors are available for inspection at the AGM.
knowledge and familiarity of the Group.
This will assist them individually, as members of the Board and also on the Non-Executive Directors will seek approval from the Committees on which they serve.
Chairman, prior to assuming additional external commitments which may affect their time available to Our Non-Executive Directors engage fully in the ongoing devote to the Company.
The Board is advised of any development programme.
During the year, this was changes.
delivered in a number of ways, including: Specific, tailored training for our Audit Committee, The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors are delivered by  LLP.
The key contributing effectively to the operation of the Board.
themes focused around the developments in financial and narrative reporting, accounting and auditing Positions held by the Non-Executive Directors are detailed standards and the requirements for publishing a Viability in the section on Directors biographies on pages 67 to 68.
Updates were provided to the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors are encouraged to take a Nonon changes in remuneration governance and new Executive position in other companies and organisations.
The appointment to such positions is subject to the Regular updates on regulatory and legislative approval of the Board which considers, in particular, the developments, which are provided to the whole Board time commitment required.
Induction, training and development Information and support to the Board All new Non-Executive Directors joining the Workspace The Directors have access to independent professional Board, undertake a formal and personalised induction advice at the Companys expense, as well as to the advice programme.
This will cover, for example, the operation and and services of the Company Secretary, Carmelina Carfora.
activities of the Group including site visits and meeting Her biography can be found on page 68.
Through the members of the Senior Management team, the Groups Chairman, Carmelina is responsible for advising the Board principal strategic risks: the role of the Board, the decision on matters of Corporate Governance and ensuring that making matters reserved to it: the responsibilities of the Board procedures are complied with.
The Board and its Board Committees: and the strategic objectives.
Committees receive high-quality, up-to-date information for them to review in good time before each meeting.
Board induction programme In consultation with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary manages the provision of information to the Board for their 1.
formal Board meetings and at other appropriate times.
The Board uses an electronic Board paper system which 2.
provides quick, easy and secure access to Board papers and materials.
Prior to each Board meeting the Directors receive, through this system, the agenda and supporting 3.
Attend presentations of key business areas papers to ensure that they have the latest and relevant and other relevant documentation.
information in advance of the meeting.
After each Board meeting, the Company Secretary 4.
operates a comprehensive follow up procedure to ensure that actions are completed as agreed by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer ensure that the Board is kept fully aware on a timely basis of business matters relating to the Group.
"83""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Board performance evaluation The Board recognises the benefit of annual evaluation, enabling it to improve its effectiveness and that of its Committees and Directors."
For the year under review, the Company Secretary facilitated the Board effectiveness review, having undertaken an externally facilitated evaluation last year.
Outcome of our 2014 15 external Board evaluation 2015 16 Board effectiveness review The progress achieved during the year for those actions identied as part of the external Board evaluation Topics discussed by Directors: conducted in 2014 15 is detailed below.
How the Board works together.
Refine structure of the strategy day and how strategic How well the Board members understand the discussions may be facilitated.
competencies and capabilities of Senior Management.
Progress during 2015 16: The continued evolution of Board training and Annual Board strategy day held in September 2015. development.
Senior Managers were invited to attend parts of the meeting to provide an overview of ongoing initiatives.
The Company Secretary reviewed the responses and discussed them with the Chairman.
The results of the evaluation were then presented at the March 2016 To continue to focus on succession planning, with Board meeting.
greater visibility of the succession plans for Senior Management.
The feedback from this years Board effectiveness review was positive.
It concluded that the Board is working well, Progress during 2015 16: and that each Director continues to contribute effectively Succession and development plans for Senior and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Management were reviewed and discussed during the year.
The themes noted for further action are detailed below.
Maintain focus on succession planning, resourcing, Review current induction process with the and training and development needs of Board introduction of customer engagement.
Progress during 2015 16: Proposed actions: The current induction programme remains under The Board plans to continue to focus on succession review and will continue to evolve depending on any planning.
The Company Secretary will work with specic requirements of new Directors who are individual Board members and the Board more generally, appointed to the Board.
to identify and develop appropriate training and development requirements.
Non-Executive Directors to be advised of customer events during the year to which they may attend.
Continue the ongoing programme of Board engagement with the business through activities such Progress during 2015 16: as site visits.
Customer events will be notied to Non-Executive Directors as appropriate.
Proposed actions: The Board has requested that the Senior Management team develop a programme of activities for the forthcoming year.
Chairmans evaluation The Senior Independent Director chairs an annual meeting of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman present, to appraise the Chairmans performance and to address any other matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
The outcome of these discussions is conveyed by the Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
During the year under review, it was concluded that the Chairman is highly respected and is valued for his industry knowledge.
Furthermore, he was complimented by all for his leadership and for his inclusive style during Board meetings.
"84""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Re-election of Directors Accountability All Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM on 14 July 2016."
Following the Board evaluation review, the Chairman The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts considers that each Director continues to operate as an taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and effective member of the Board and has, the skills, provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess knowledge and experience that enables them to discharge the Companys position and performance, business model their duties effectively in fullling their duties on the Board and strategy.
and as members of the Board Committees.
Consequently, the Board is of the opinion that the Directors seeking The Groups strategy and business model can be found on re-election at the Annual General Meeting have continued pages 4 to 61.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities to give effective counsel and commitment to the Company regarding the financial statements is set out on page 124. and, accordingly should be reappointed by the Groups shareholders at the upcoming Annual General Meeting.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has reviewed the Groups system of internal Mr Hopkins and Mr Clemett have service contracts and controls and risk management throughout the year.
details can be found on page 117.
None of the NonProcesses and procedures have been established to enable Executive Directors have service contracts.
the Directors to report on the effectiveness of internal controls in compliance with the Code.
These processes The appointment of Daniel Kitchen may be terminated and procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and by either him or the Company giving six months notice management of the key risks to the Group.
are contained in Principal risks and uncertainties on page 97.
Chris Girling and Damon Russells first term of appointment as Non-Executive Directors expired on 7 February 2016 An assessment of the principal risks facing the Company is and 29 May 2016 respectively.
Following a review of their set out on pages 43 to 51. performance, the Nomination Committee recommended that their appointment should be extended for a further Going Concern and Viability Statement three-year term.
This recommendation was agreed by Going Concern disclosures are included alongside the the Board.
The appointment of Chris Girling, Maria Moloney, Damon Takeover directive Russell and Stephen Hubbard may be terminated by either Share capital structures are included in the Directors the Company or any one of them giving three months Report on pages 121 and 122. notice in writing.
Audit Committee and Auditors Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 66 The Audit Committee comprises four independent to 68.
It met three times during the year under review, with meetings organised around the Companys reporting schedule.
Chris Girling, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, has been determined by the Board to have relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with its Auditors, PwC, with no Company management present.
Further details on the work of the Audit Committee can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 91 to 97.
Details of the composition of the Audit Committee are set out on page 91.
Remuneration The principal responsibility of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and agree, with the Board, the overall remuneration principles and the framework for remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Details of the Directors remuneration can be found on pages 98 to 119.
"85""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Workspace Investor Relations Programme Relations with Shareholders Shareholder engagement A high priority is given to communication with shareholders and the Company maintains regular dialogue with all investors, including major institutions and private client fund managers."
The Company has a comprehensive Workspace investor relations programme includes investor relations programme.
The Chief Executive Officer, the following activities: Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Corporate Communications meet regularly with institutional 1.
Analyst Engagement shareholders and sell-side analysts to present the The Executive Committee engages with sell-side analysts Companys results and discuss the business model, formally at the Full and Half Year results presentations.
The Company also engages with In addition, the Finance Director and Head of Corporate shareholders through various online communications, at Communications are in regular dialogue with analysts the Annual General Meeting and at an annual Capital throughout the year as they update their models and Markets Day, as well as external investor conferences.
publish research on the Company.
Why it is important: The sell-side analyst community provides Discussions with institutional shareholders are held regular research on the Company to existing and prospective throughout the year on a range of issues affecting the investors and it is important that analysts have up to date Groups performance, which include meetings following the and accurate information in order to present a fair view.
announcements of the annual and interim results.
Other ad hoc meetings, presentations and site visits are arranged for Frequency: Two formal meetings per year, plus regular shareholders, analysts and financial media throughout the ongoing dialogue.
year in the UK, Europe and the United States.
Investor Roadshows The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional In addition to the results presentations, which investors shareholders together with regular market reports and attend as well as analysts, management carry out investor brokers reports which enable the Directors to understand roadshows in the UK after the Full and Half Year results, the views of shareholders.
generally spending four to five days on the road in London and Edinburgh.
Additional roadshows are arranged on an The Chairman is also available to meet with shareholders, ad hoc basis to regional cities in the UK, Continental independently of the Executive Directors, as required.
The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders Why they are important: The roadshows give shareholders who wish to receive a copy.
It is also available in the an opportunity to meet with management one-on-one or investor section of the Companys website in small groups, discuss the results, business model and www.
strategy and raise any concerns they may have.
Frequency: Two formal roadshows per year, plus up to The Company launched new customer and investor two further roadshows arranged ad hoc.
This is an important means of communication and a key source of information for shareholders and prospective investors.
Webcasts announcements, a live share price feed and calculator and The Full and Half Year results presentations are streamed other information including an archive of published results on the Company website via a live webcast and made and reports, press releases, details about the Groups available for replays following the event.
assets and contact information for the Companys Why they are important: The webcasts allow analysts and operational and investor relations team.
investors to follow the results presentation if they cannot attend the event in person and broaden the Companys Overall balance of activities 2015 16 reach to investors based overseas.
Bank & Industry Conferences 8 The Executive Directors and Senior Management team 5.
Investor Tours 10 regularly attend and present at Real Estate conferences 6.
The Annual General Meeting 1 held by banks and industry bodies, e. g. EPRA, in the UK, 4.
Capital Markets Day 1 Europe and US.
Why they are important: They are a good opportunity to keep abreast of industry trends, build relationships with key players in the sector and demonstrate the strength and depth of the management team.
Additionally, they often provide an opportunity to hold one-on-one and group meetings with investors outside of the formal roadshow schedule.
Frequency: Around eight conferences per year.
"86""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Workspace Investor Relations Programme The Company continues to make full and transparent announcements on corporate activity during the course disclosure through its Full and Half Year Results."
In addition, of the year, such as acquisitions and announcements of the Company published Regulatory News Services RNS planning approval, as well as two quarterly trading updates.
Workspace investor relations programme includes Activities by Executive Committee Member 2015 16 the following activities: 5.
Investor Tours Jamie Hopkins Tours of the Groups assets are organised regularly, both Chief Executive Officer proactively and on request, for existing and prospective investors.
These are carried out by the Executive Directors and 1.
1. the Head of Corporate Communications, with asset managers 2.
Investor Roadshows 6. and other management team members often present.
Why they are important: The tours showcase the properties 5.
Investor Tours 5. within the portfolio and the high levels of activity ongoing 6.
The Annual General Meeting across the Group.
They demonstrate the business model 3.
Capital Markets Day in action and introduce investors to a broad spread of Workspace employees, including Centre Managers.
Frequency: More than 10 tours conducted per year.
Graham Clemett Chief Financial Officer 6.
Held annually, the Annual General Meeting takes place at 1.
Investor Roadshows the Company Headquarters and is attended by the full 6.
Details of the resolutions to be 4.
Bank & Industry Conferences 2. proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 14 July 2016 5.
Investor Tours 5. can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 6.
The Annual General Meeting which is available at www.
Capital Markets Day dispatched to shareholders who have requested a hard copy of the documentation from the Company.
All shareholders are invited to vote on the Resolutions and Chris Pieroni the results are made available after the meeting and Operations Director published on our investor website.
Why it is important: It provides shareholders with a forum 4.
Bank & Industry Conferences 7. to put questions to the Board of Directors and to vote on 5.
Investor Tours important issues within the business, such as remuneration.
Capital Markets Day Frequency: Once a year.
The Capital Markets Day is held once a year and includes a tour of the Groups properties and in some cases, a management presentation.
The Executive Directors are all Angus Boag present on the tour, as well as Centre Managers and other Development Director members of the management team.
Why it is important: As well as showcasing the Groups 5.
Investor Tours properties, it allows Workspace to demonstrate how it is 6.
The Annual General Meeting driving value and growth from its real estate and customer 4.
Analyst feedback from the 2015 Capital Markets 6.
Day was that the tour brought the assets to life, was informative and shows just how profitable their 5. developments are.
In addition, the small group format was appreciated as it provided plenty of time and access to the Senior Management.
"87""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
