Overview Corporate Governance Report Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Executive Committee Executive Committee Role of the Executive Committee: The Executive Committee is responsible for the successful implementation of the Company strategy and for the performance of the Group.
It will also review the effectiveness of our governance processes to ensure that they are embedded within the Company.
Developing the Group strategy and budget for approval by the Board.
Reviewing and approving capital expenditure within the authorities delegated by the Board.
Monitoring of operational and financial results against plans and budgets.
1 2 3 4 Collectively responsible for the day-to-day running of the business.
Developing leadership skills and the future talent of the business so that strong succession plans are in place Members of the Executive Committee: as the Group develops.
Analyse and review initiatives of 1.
Jamie Hopkins professional career teaching particular interest to the Company Chief Executive Officer economics at Cambridge University.
and present these to the Board as Chris was a Non-Executive Director appropriate.
Specic responsibilities: of the Group from 2000 until his Ensure the effectiveness of risk Strategic management: investor retirement from the Board in August management and control procedures.
Chris was Chairman of the acquisitions and disposals: Business Centre Association 20142016.
The Committee has met 19 times health and safety: staff: equal during the year ended 31 March 2016. opportunities: remuneration: training 4.
Angus Boag and development: Chairman of the Development Director Executive, Investment, Risk and Charity Committees: and Specic responsibilities: development of the brand.
Planning consents: redevelopment Number of planning consents gained and refurbishment projects: valuations: 2.
Graham Clemett sustainability and environmental Chief Financial Officer strategy: and project management.
4 Specic responsibilities: Background and relevant experience: Finance: treasury: tax: company Angus joined the Group in June 2007 Enquiries in 2015 16 secretarial and compliance: investor as Development Director.
He has relations: and information technology.
extensive experience in property and construction management and is 12,353 3.
Chris Pieroni responsible for adding value to the Operations Director Groups assets through planning consents, development and joint Specic responsibilities: ventures.
Angus also manages all the Portfolio performance: asset building works across the portfolio management: lettings: marketing: and is responsible for the valuations of rent reviews and renewals: new the Groups property.
Angus also sets business development: and charity the Groups corporate social and social initiatives.
Before joining the Group, Background and relevant experience: Angus was Managing Director of Chris Pieroni joined the Group as Manhattan Loft Corporation and a Operations Director in October Principal at PA Consulting Group.
Chris is responsible for asset management, marketing, professional services, brand and business development.
Prior to joining Workspace, he worked at KPMG specialising in real estate and infrastructure finance.
"He began his 69""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued 1."
Health and Safety is an Customer relationships important consideration are vital to our strategy for all properties and an so we actively engage issue the Board reviews.
with customers so they understand our offer Jamie Hopkins is pictured and we get real-time on-site at Grand Union information from them.
Studios reviewing health and safety practices with Chris Pieroni pictured Chris Alison, one of our with Nick Robinson facilities managers.
and Roisin OShea, from International 2.
Sports Consulting at One of the issues Grand Union Studios.
highlighted in the 2015 evaluation of the Board is the need for increased 2. interaction between the Board and Senior Management.
The Executive Team are pictured with Daniel Kitchen, Chairman, and Chris Girling, Senior Independent Director, at Westbourne Studios.
Executive Committee in action Understanding the business and how it is responding to the challenges and opportunities in the marketplace is an important part of the Executive Committees role.
The Executive Committee provides day-to-day leadership of the business, working closely with Senior Managers and staff to create and protect value across the portfolio.
"70""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 71""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
