Corporate Governance Report continued Investment Committee Case study: Disposal of Leyton Industrial Village November 2015 Workspace owned an industrial estate in Leyton, E10, comprising a total of 135,544 sq.
In 2013 and 2014, the property underwent a two-phased refurbishment programme which saw new units being built on the estate, resulting in increased occupancy and improved rents.
In line with the strategy to focus on business centres, where Workspace can add more value to customers, the Investment Committee considered the disposal of Leyton Industrial Village in 2015.
The property was placed on the market and sold for 23m, a premium of 25% on the March 2015 valuation and in line with the September 2015 valuation.
significant interest was generated from a number of potential buyers and we were pleased to have Left to right: James Friedenthal, Jonathan Shelton and John Robson sold it at such a substantial premium to book value.
Composition of the Committee Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer Graham Clemett, Chief Financial Officer Chris Pieroni, Operations Director Angus Boag, Development Director Given the nature of capital expenditure or initiatives that are likely to be presented to the Investment Committee, it is also attended by: John Robson, Head of Asset Management Jonathan Shelton, Head of Investment James Friedenthal, Head of Corporate Development Clare Dundas, Head of Corporate Communications 1.
Leyton Industrial Village Mike Webber, Financial Planning and Analysis Manager Leyton Carmelina Carfora, Company Secretary Secretary to the Investment Committee The Investment Committee is chaired by Jamie Hopkins and meets every two weeks.
Role of the Investment Committee Review and approve disposals and acquisitions of 1 investment property assets which will also be approved by the Board, in particular with a value of more than 2m.
Approve and monitor asset management initiatives greater than 0.1m.
ISLINGTON Approve and monitor progress on all refurbishment and redevelopment programmes to ensure they are progressing in line with budget and are on target to meet completion dates.
Issues covered in 2015 16 Reviewed and approved the disposal of 11 industrial I n reviewing areas of significant properties for 95m.
Reviewed and approved the acquisition of five expenditure across the business, the properties for 101m.
Investment Committee not only supports Approved refurbishment and redevelopment activity, the successful implementation of the including monitoring progress at four projects that Company strategy but also offers robust completed in the year.
Considered options for and approved upgrades to challenge and ensures that risk technology infrastructure in our buildings.
"Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer 72""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
