The Board Executive Directors W e have an extremely strong Board of Directors at Workspace.
They are all very skilled individuals who bring with them valuable and significant experience.
This, I believe, contributes to the effectiveness of the Board and therefore its ability to motivate our team to deliver Jamie Hopkins Graham Clemett excellent performance.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: June 2010 as a Non-Executive Graham Clemett joined the Board as Board tenure Director and appointed Chief Chief Financial Officer in July 2007.
Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Member of the Executive Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Member of the Investment Chairman of the Investment Committee.
Chairman of the Risk Committee.
Current external appointments: Graham was appointed as 1.
0-3 years 14% Current external appointments: Non-Executive Director and 2.
3-5 years 43% Jamie is a member of the Corporate Chairman of the Audit Committee 3.
5 years 43% Board of Great Ormond Street for The Restaurant Group plc with Hospital Childrens Charity and a effect from 1 June 2016.
Board diversity member of the London Enterprise Panels Small and Medium Enterprise Previous appointments: 2.
Previously he was Finance Director for UK Corporate Banking at RBS Previous appointments: Group PLC where he worked for a He was previously Chief Executive period of five years.
Prior to that, and then a Non-Executive Director Graham spent eight years at Reuters of Mapeley PLC and a Director of Group PLC, latterly as Group Chester Properties.
Prior to that, Financial Controller.
Jamie was a Director of Delancey 1.
Male 86% Significant experience of financing Skills and business experience: and capital raising.
Board experience Strategic development and Over eight years in the Group he execution experience.
6. encouraging teams to deliver Strong strategic and commercial 1. their objectives.
Well-developed leadership and Strong experience of investor management skills.
"Utility 6% 66""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Non-Executive Directors Daniel Kitchen Chris Girling Maria Moloney Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director and Director and Chairman of the Chairman of the Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Daniel Kitchen was appointed to the Chris Girling was appointed to the Maria Moloney was appointed to the Board in June 2011 and subsequently Board in February 2013."
On the Board in May 2012. assumed the role of Chairman at the recommendation of the Nomination AGM in July 2011.
Committee, the Board agreed to Independent: extend his appointment for a further Yes.
Independent: three years from February 2016.
Committee memberships: Independent: Member of the Audit and Committee memberships: Yes.
Nomination Committees and Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Committee memberships: Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, Member of the Remuneration and Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Nomination Committees.
She is currently on the Board and Daniel is currently Chairman of a Trustee of the Northern Ireland Hibernia REIT plc, Applegreen plc, a Current external appointments: Cancer Centre in Belfast.
Non-Executive Director of LXB Retail Chris Girling, a Chartered Properties Plc, Irish Takeover Panel Accountant, is currently a NonPrevious appointments: Limited and Governor of St Patrick Executive Director and Chairman of Maria was previously on the Board of Hospital in Dublin.
the Audit Committees of Keller PLC the Belfast Harbour Commissioners, and South East Water Limited and the Industrial Development Board Previous appointments: Chair of Trustees for the Slaughter for Northern Ireland, the Northern He was previously Deputy Chief and May Pension Fund.
Ireland Transport Holdings, Executive at Heron International plc Independent Television Commission, and prior to that was Finance Previous appointments: London and Broadcasting Authority Director at Green Property for eight Chris Girling was previously Group of Ireland.
He retired as Non-Executive Finance Director of Carillion PLC Chairman of Irish Nationwide from 1999 to 2007 and Vosper Skills and business experience: Building Society in July 2011 and as Thornycroft PLC for 10 years.
Strong marketing and commercial Non-Executive Director of Kingspan skills.
Skills and business experience: A lawyer by background with Previously CFO of FTSE 250 plcs significant legal and Corporate Skills and business experience: for 18 years.
Detailed knowledge of the Group.
Business development and Strong leadership skills.
Detailed knowledge of risk strategy development.
Strategy development and assessment and management Strategic business assessments execution.
Strong financial skills and Experience of infrastructure and previously a CFO for eight years development projects.
for a property development and investment company.
E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e B Bo oa ar rd d m me em mb be er r a an nd d Ex Exe ec cu ut tiiv five e C Co om mm miit tt te ee e m me em mb be er r Experience of acquisitions and disposals.
"S Se en niio or r IIn nd fide ep pe en nd fide en nt t No Non n- -E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e D Diir re ec ct to or r No Non n- -E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e D Diir re ec ct to or r 67""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Board continued Non-Executive Directors continued Company Secretary Damon Russell Stephen Hubbard Carmelina Carfora Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Date appointed: Damon Russell was appointed to the Stephen Hubbard was appointed to Carmelina Carfora was appointed as Board in May 2013."
Company Secretary in March 2010. recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board agreed to Independent: Responsibilities: extend his appointment for a further Yes.
Carmelina is Secretary to the Board three years from May 2016. and its Committees, ensuring Committee memberships: compliance with its procedures and Independent: Member of the Remuneration, Audit providing advice on governance Yes.
At the direction of the Chairman, she is responsible for Committee memberships: Current external appointments: ensuring the Board receives Member of the Remuneration, Audit Stephen is currently Chairman of accurate, timely and relevant and Nomination Committees.
He joined Richard Ellis in information.
She also co-ordinates 1976 and held the position of head of the induction of new Board Current external appointments: EMEA and UK Capital Markets from members and the provision of Damon holds advisory roles for a 1998 to 2012.
He is also Chairman of ongoing training and development number of smaller companies in the London Business Network and a of the Board.
He is currently member of the advisory board for Chairman of New Telecom Express Redevco which is a pan-European Carmelinas other responsibilities Group, an interactive media service property holding company.
include: monitoring and compliance provider, and has more than 20 with legislation such as the Data years experience in the industry.
He Skills and business experience: Protection Act and Modern Slavery co-founded the company in 1989.
Many years experience of Act: administration, vesting and Telecom Express was sold to AMV operating within the property granting of awards under the BBDO, part of the Omnicom Group, sector.
Companys share schemes: and in 1998.
In 2004, Damon led a Experience of regeneration and compliance with other regulatory successful management buyout.
Previous appointments: Detailed knowledge of risk Background and relevant experience: He was previously Non-Executive assessment and management She was previously Group Company Director of iannounce before systems.
com in Strong financial skills.
She has also worked in the May 2013. construction industry and for a consultancy rm offering company Skills and business experience: secretarial services.
Extensive digital and media technology experience.
Strong strategic and commercial understanding.
Significant experience in alliances, ventures and partnerships.
Knowledge of service related industry requirements and key client relationships.
"Non-Executive Director 68""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
