STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board composition Delegation of authority As at 31 December 2015, the Board comprised a Non-Executive The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to four Chairman, one Executive Director and eight Non-Executive Directors, Committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, of whom seven were independent.
the EHS&S Committee and the Nomination & Governance Committee.
The membership, chairmanship and activities of each of these Board changes during 2015 Committees are set out in each Committee report on pages 58 to 62 There were no new Board appointments during the reporting period.
and as part of the Remuneration Report.
Retirement and re-election Board effectiveness In line with the requirements for annual re-election under the Board meetings and attendance UK Corporate Governance Code, save for Graham Clow all other Board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
In exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken The Board determines all of these Directors to be eligible for re-election.
by the majority of Board members.
Questions arising at any meeting Graham Clow will step down from the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
are determined by a majority of votes.
In the case of an equality of votes, Acacias Articles of Association do not provide the Chairman with Board leadership a second or casting vote.
All Directors are required to take decisions Chairman and Chief Executive Officer objectively and in the best interests of the Company.
As part of their In line with best practice, the roles of Chief Executive Officer and duties as Directors, Non-Executive Directors are expected to apply Chairman, and their related responsibilities, are separated.
The divisions independent judgement to contribute to issues of strategy and of responsibility and the specifications of each role are set out in performance and to scrutinise the performance of management.
writing and reviewed periodically as part of annual corporate governance reviews.
Responsibilities are divided so as to ensure that the Chairman The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at such remains principally responsible for the leadership of the Board and other times as are necessary to discharge its duties.
The Board met ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the a total of five times in 2015.
All meetings were held in person.
Details development and determination of the Companys strategy and of individual attendance are provided in the table overleaf.
The Chief Executive Officer is primarily responsible for all executive management matters affecting Acacia Board briefings and development and is principally responsible for running the Companys business.
The Board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports All members of the ELT report directly to him.
outlining all material operational, financial and strategic developments.
These ensure that Board members remain properly briefed on the Senior Independent Director performance and financial position of the Group on a continuous Mr Tomsett is Acacias Senior Independent Director SID.
Board and Committee papers are circulated prior to all meetings responsibilities and duties of the SID are determined in accordance with to allow Directors to be briefed in advance of discussions.
Board the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, meetings include quarterly operational, financial and exploration project the SID is required to: performance reviews to ensure that, in addition to specific scheduled matters and any other business, core business performance is act as a sounding board for the Chairman: monitored and assessed on a continuous basis.
In addition to scheduled act as an intermediary for other Directors, when necessary: Board meetings, all Directors have access to members of the Executive ensure that an annual appraisal of the Chairman is conducted by the Leadership Team and to whatever further information they need to Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman present: and perform their duties and to satisfy their responsibilities.
Acacias independent Non-Executive Directors and Committee Chairmen meet be available to shareholders for discussion purposes, in cases where with members of the Executive Leadership Team to receive more contact between such shareholders and the Chairman and or CEO in-depth briefings on Board and Committee matters whenever required has been ineffective or is otherwise inappropriate.
In addition, all Directors continue to have free access to visit operations outside of scheduled Board arrangements and Matters reserved each Director is expected to participate in at least one operational There is a schedule of matters that the Board has specifically reserved site visit per year.
Board training and development needs are reviewed for its decision.
This schedule was reviewed during the year and includes on an ongoing basis.
Directors may take independent professional matters such as setting the Groups strategic aims and objectives, advice, as necessary, at the Companys expense in the furtherance approving significant contractual commitments including merger and of their duties.
In addition to this, each Board Committee is entitled acquisition activity, approving capital-raising, approving changes to the to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense, Groups share capital and corporate structure, approving financial reports where necessary, to assist or guide the Committee in the performance and ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and of its functions.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Internal control assessment requirements introduced by the 2014 edition of the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRCs Guidance on Risk and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In line with Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business this responsibility, the Board has established ongoing processes and Reporting that has been introduced to replace the Turnbull Guidance systems for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks that for financial reporting periods commencing on or after 1 October 2014. the Group faces, which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The review also covered a review of all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and considered all The Board principally bases its monitoring and review of the significant aspects of internal control for the reporting period.
During effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems on its the course of the review the Board did not identify or hear of any review of management reports and assessments, and on the quarterly failings or weaknesses that it determined to be material.
Therefore reports it receives on the status of Acacias risk management and a confirmation of any necessary actions undertaken is not required.
This is supported by the risk profile reviews that Acacias internal audit function carries out to help the Additional information regarding the internal control and risk Board identify and manage the most significant risks and events that management process specifically in relation to the financial reporting could affect the Companys operations, financials and performance process and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements on an ongoing basis.
Where necessary, the Board is assisted by its is provided as part of the Audit Committee report and the notes to Committees in reviewing internal systems and controls, particularly the the consolidated financial statements.
Audit Committee, which is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management framework systems, Further detail as regards the governance structure used for Acacias as components of the Companys internal control framework.
approach to risk management and the processes and procedures used in the context of risk management is provided on pages 22 to 23 In compliance with its obligations, the Board conducted a review of the of this Annual Report.
The Companys viability statement is also provided effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control in this context on page 23. systems for the reporting period with the assistance of Deloitte LLP.
This review took into account the enhanced monitoring, review and Audit Compensation Nomination & EHS&S Board Committee Committee GovernanceCommittee Committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible Current Directors 1 Kelvin Dushnisky 5 5 1 1 2 2 Brad Gordon 5 5 Peter Tomsett 5 5 5 5 5 5 2 2 Ambassador 5 5 2 2 4 4 Juma V. Mwapachu Andre Falzon 5 5 5 5 Michael Kenyon 4 5 4 5 1 Graham Clow 5 5 4 4 3 4 Steve Lucas 5 5 5 5 Rachel English 5 5 5 5 4 4 Stephen Galbraith 5 5 1 Kelvin Dushnisky stepped down from the Compensation Committee and was replaced by Graham Clow in February 2015.
54 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Majority shareholder In addition, the Listing Rules now require premium listed companies with Barrick is the Group majority shareholder, holding approximately 64% of controlling shareholders to provide a confirmation in their annual reports Acacias issued shares as at the date of this report.
Acacias relationship that all of the independence provisions contained in their relationship with Barrick is governed by the terms of a Relationship Agreement, the agreements have been complied with.
In line with this requirement, principal purpose of which is to ensure that the Acacia Group is capable the Board has assessed Barrick and Acacias compliance with the of carrying on its business independently of the Barrick Group and that Relationship Agreements independence requirements, as amended, and any transactions and relationships with the Barrick Group are conducted has assessed compliance with these requirements, in line with practices at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Relationship employed in any event since the IPO.
As such, the Board can confirm Agreement will continue for so long as Acacia is listed on the London that Acacia has complied with the independence requirements stated Stock Exchange and Barrick owns or controls at least 15% of Acacias above since their adoption and, so far as the Board is aware, Barrick issued share capital or voting rights.
and its associates have also complied with these requirements.
In this regard, all members of the Board support the giving of this statement The Relationship Agreement provides Barrick with certain Director and no independent Non-Executive Director has raised any objections appointment rights in line with a sliding scale, structured as follows: in this regard.
Barrick percentage shareholding Barrick Director appointment rights Dialogue with the investment community 40% or more The higher of three Non-Executive Acacia has a designated investor relations team which acts as the Directors and the maximum that may primary point of contact with the investment community and is be appointed under the UK Corporate responsible for maintaining Acacias ongoing relations with investors and Governance Code shareholders.
Acacia conducts regular investor meetings and telephone 25% up to 40% The higher of two Non-Executive calls with the investment community to discuss results, and participates Directors and one less than the in mining conferences to meet with current and prospective investors.
maximum number of Non-Executive In addition to its annual and half-year reports, Acacia publishes quarterly Directors that may be appointed reports to the market, which provide further information on production under the UK Corporate and financial results, and updates on its business and operations.
Governance Code Acacias investor relations team also arrange operational site tours 15% up to 25% The higher of one Non-Executive for members of the analyst community, as and when appropriate.
Director and two less than the maximum number of Non-Executive AGM Directors that may be appointed Acacias 2016 AGM will be held on 21 April 2016 at 14.00 UK time.
under the UK Corporate The business of the meeting will be conducted in accordance with Governance Code Companies Act 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Audit, Compensation, EHS&S and Nomination In addition to Director appointment rights, and subject to certain & Governance Committees will be available to answer questions put exceptions, as part of the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Barrick to them by shareholders at the meeting.
The AGM Notice is included has undertaken that members of the Barrick Group will not carry on the in the documentation that has been provided with this Annual Report exploration of gold or silver in Africa or acquire, whether through an asset and is also available on the Companys website.
In accordance with purchase or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business best practice, the notice has been sent to shareholders at least in Africa that competes with Acacia without giving Acacia the option to 20 business days prior to the date of the meeting.
exercise certain rights of first refusal for so long as Barrick holds 30% or more of the issued share capital or voting rights of Acacia.
Acacia has Conflicts of interest given a reciprocal non-compete commitment to Barrick in this regard.
Mr Dushnisky and Mr Galbraith are nominee Directors appointed by Barrick.
These individuals hold a number of cross directorships with Acacia entered into the Relationship Agreement at the time of its members of the Barrick Group, which give rise to situations in which initial public offering in 2010.
It was amended in 2014 to ensure full these Directors could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, compliance with the independence requirements introduced to the or possibly may conflict, with those of Acacia.
In addition, as a result Listing Rules, which took effect in November 2014.
Following these of their employment within the Barrick Group, these individuals also amendments the Relationship Agreement expressly provides that: hold interests under Barricks restricted stock unit plan and other i any and all transactions with Barrick or its associates shall be employee incentive plans.
conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: ii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will take any action that will prevent Acacia from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and iii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Companies Act 2006 requires directors to avoid situations where Interviews were then conducted with members of the Board by they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or two partners from Lintstock to expand upon the issues raised in may possibly conflict, with company interests.
However, the Act does the questionnaires.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured allow directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential throughout the process in order to promote the open and frank conflicts of interest where a companys articles of association contain exchange of views.
Acacias Articles of Association contain such provision and a procedure for this.
In accordance with this procedure, Lintstock subsequently produced a report which considered the the conflicts outlined above were declared and authorised by the Board.
following areas of Board performance: The size and composition of the Board and the key changes that The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or ought to be made over the next 35 years to match the Companys potential conflict of interest is an ongoing process.
required to notify the Company of any material changes in positions Board members understanding of Acacias operations and the or situations that have already been considered and any new situations.
environment and market in which the Company operates.
In addition, Directors are required to declare interests in potential or actual transactions and are required to abstain from voting on such The use of time at meetings, the quality of management transactions, subject to permitted exceptions.
If a question arises presentations and Board materials generally.
as to whether any interest of a Director prevents him or her from voting The induction and ongoing training of Board members.
or being counted in a quorum in the context of a potential or actual The involvement of the Board in determining Acacias strategic transaction, the matter is referred to the Chairman, whose findings direction, Board performance in testing and developing strategy are final and conclusive.
In the context of questions relating to any such and reviewing progress against strategic pillars.
conflict of the Chairman, the question may ultimately be decided by a The Boards oversight of sustainability performance.
resolution of the other Directors.
The Board reviews conflicts of interest on a periodic basis and maintains a record of all declared conflicts.
The Boards focus on risk and the oversight of culture and behaviours throughout the organisation.
Specifically as regards nominee Directors appointed by Barrick, the Relationship Agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement The findings were presented to, and collectively considered by, all arises directly between a member of the Barrick Group and a member Directors.
Overall, the Board concluded that it had operated effectively of the Acacia Group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of throughout the reporting period.
Nevertheless, opportunities for Directors excluding any Director s appointed by Barrick, give rise to a improvement and specific priorities were identified and these have been conflict of interest between Acacia and any Director appointed by Barrick, taken into account when structuring our focus areas for 2016.
Among any such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly convened other things, the Board agreed that it should continue with its visits Board meeting or in writing by a majority of Directors excluding any to major operations in order to maintain appropriate knowledge of the Director s appointed by Barrick prior to the Company taking further business and to ensure that it remains visible to the operations and has action in relation to such matter.
Save for the matters set out above, access to a broad group of executives and employees.
It also agreed no other conflicts of interest were disclosed to the Board during the to consider revising the amount of time scheduled for some meetings, reporting period.
and to review the allocation of time to core topics and, in particular, to review opportunities to schedule additional strategy and risk sessions.
Performance evaluation The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful and provide a As regards Committee reviews, as noted above the effectiveness of valuable opportunity for continuous improvement.
In 2015, we engaged each Board Committee was also assessed through this exercise and Lintstock to undertake our first  performance an individual Committee report produced in each case.
The reports evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors and recommendations have been reviewed and discussed by each including the Chairman.
Committee and some minor improvement opportunities identified.
The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the It is envisaged that the 2016 Board and Board Committee performance Chairman and the Company secretariat to set the context for the evaluation, whether conducted internally or externally facilitated, will evaluation, and to tailor the surveys used to the Companys specific be designed to build upon learnings gained this year to ensure that circumstances.
All Board members were requested to complete an online the recommendations agreed are implemented and that year-on-year survey addressing the performance of the Board and its Committees, progress is measured.
the Chairman and individual Directors.
Survey topics covered a range of areas including composition, skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, the respective roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, quality of strategic and risk debate, the effectiveness of decision making and interactions with management.
56 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Corporate governance compliance For the year under review, as a UK company with a premium listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, Acacia is required to make certain statements regarding the way it is governed, as required by the 2014 edition UK Corporate Governance Code, which is available at www.
Accordingly, this report explains how Acacia has applied the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2015.
Generally, Acacia seeks to comply with all relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code wherever possible and for the reporting year it is the Boards view that Acacia has complied with all such provisions, save for the following: Mr Dushnisky was not independent on appointment as Chairman and an external search consultancy was not used in connection with his appointment.
Given Mr Dushniskys experience within the mining sector, his skill set and his familiarity with the operating and geographical environment in which the Companys assets are located, the Board believes his appointment to be in the best interests of the Company irrespective of this Provisions A.
Acacia has not adopted a formal diversity policy.
In this regard however, we ensure that all recruitment is conducted on the basis that we hire the best candidate for all positions, at all levels, including Board and senior management positions, irrespective of gender or race Provision B.
Lastly, the UK Corporate Governance Code requires that the Board provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Acacias position and prospects in its external reporting.
Accordingly, the Directors were responsible for the preparation and approval of this Annual Report and consider the Annual Report and Accounts for 2015, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and believe that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Acacias position and performance, business model and strategy.
Acacias external auditors have reviewed those parts of this statement, which they are required to review under the Listing Rules.
In addition to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, as part of commitments given in connection with Acacias secondary listing on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, the Board has undertaken to comply with the Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by the Tanzanian Capital Markets and Securities Authority to the extent that these requirements are equivalent to applicable UK corporate governance standards.
In the case of any conflict between the two, the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code prevail.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 57
