EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Andrew Wray, age 52 Katrina White, age 40 Chief Financial Officer General Counsel and Company Secretary Andrew Wray was appointed as CFO in September 2013, having Katrina White joined Acacia in December 2010, having previously spent three years as Head of Corporate Development and Investor been employed by Barrick, where she served as Regional General Relations at Acacia.
Previously he was employed by JP Morgan Counsel and Company Secretary for Barrick Australia Africa, Cazenove where he was a Director in the Corporate Finance team.
subsequently Barrick Australia Pacific, from 2005 to 2010.
Andrew has over 15 years of experience in advising a range of mining Prior to joining Barrick, Katrina was employed as a senior associate and other companies in their capital-raising activities and in other at Hunt & Humphry in Australia.
Katrina has an Honours degree strategic objectives.
Prior to joining JP Morgan, Andrew worked for in Law from the University of Western Australia.
She is admitted the Kuwait Investment Office in London, dealing with their portfolio to practise as a barrister and solicitor in Western Australia, of investments in Spain.
Andrew holds a Bachelor of Arts Honours the High Court of Australia and the Federal Court of Australia.
degree in Modern Languages from University College London.
Deodatus Mwanyika, age 53 Peter Geleta, age 52 Vice President, Corporate Affairs Executive General Manager, Organisational Effectiveness Deo Mwanyika joined Acacia in March 2010, having been Peter Geleta joined Acacia in May 2012 and has extensive previously employed by Barrick which he joined in 1999 and where experience on the African continent, having worked across a number he occupied various managerial positions over 12 years, culminating of African countries in various operational and corporate roles.
in his appointment in 2008 as Executive General Manager, Tanzania.
Prior to joining Acacia he held a number of roles at Barrick, including Deo holds a Bachelor of Law degree with Honours from the University Organisational Effectiveness Director for Barrick Africa, Human of Dar es Salaam and a Masters in Law from the University of Resources Director for the Australia Pacific Region and General Cambridge.
Deo is a member of the Tanganyika Law Society and Manager for Barricks Cowal Gold Mine in New South Wales.
Before the East African Law Society.
joining Barrick, Peter worked for AngloGold Ashanti for 25 years, where he held a number of roles including Head of Human Resources and Sustainability for AngloGold Ashantis Africa Operations and General Manager of the Navachab Mine in Namibia.
Peter holds an Executive MBA qualification from the University of Cape Town.
Peter Spora, age 46 Vice President, Exploration Peter Spora joined Acacia in March 2010 having previously been employed by Barrick, where he served as Principal Geologist, Africa, from 2006 to 2008 and Exploration Manager, Africa, from 2008 to 2010.
Peter has over 19 years of experience as a geologist in Australia andAfrica.
He holds a Bachelor of Applied Science in Geology degree from the University of Technology, Sydney, Australia.
He is a member of the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy AusIMM, a member of the Tanzanian Chamber of Minerals and Energy, and is a member of the Society of Economic Geologists.
52 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
