BOARD OF DIRECTORS Kelvin Dushnisky, Brad Gordon, age 53 Peter Tomsett, age 58 Ambassador Juma V. Andre Falzon, age 61 age 52 Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Mwapachu, age 73 Independent Chairman of the Board Non-Executive Director Independent NonNon-Executive Director Year appointed Executive Director Year appointed 2013 Year appointed Year appointed 2012 2013 Year appointed 2010 2011 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Dushnisky was Mr Gordon was appointed Mr Tomsett has a wide Ambassador Juma V. Mr Falzon is a senior appointed as Chairman as Acacias Chief Executive range of technical, Mwapachu has held a financial executive with of the Board in February Officer in August 2013.
He operational and senior number of senior positions over 25 years of financial 2013, having served as was previously the CEO of management experience in both the public and and management a Director since July 2012.
Intrepid Mines, a Canadian in the mining industry.
He private sector of Tanzania experience within the Mr Dushnisky has more than and Australian listed spent 20 years with Placer and was appointed as mining industry, including 25 years of international precious metals exploration Dome Inc. in a number Tanzanias Ambassador to a period as Vice President mining industry experience, and development company of senior roles, culminating France from 2002 to 2006. and Controller at Barrick with a focus on project with primary operations in in serving as President He was the founding between 1994 and 2006. development and public Indonesia.
Prior to his time and Chief Executive Secretary General of the He is a Director of Detour affairs.
He was appointed at Intrepid, Mr Gordon was Officer until its acquisition Chamber of Commerce, Gold Corporation and was President of Barrick in the CEO of Emperor Mines, in 2006.
He has been a Industry and Agriculture: previously a director and August 2015 with overall the Australasian subsidiary Director of the Minerals he also served as Chairman Audit Committee chair of responsibility for execution of DRDGold before it merged Council of Australia, the of the Confederation of a number of publicly listed of Barricks strategic with Intrepid.
Before that, he World Gold Council and Tanzania Industries between gold mining companies.
priorities, and was appointed held a series of progressively the International Council 1996 and 2000.
He has Mr Falzon holds a Bachelor to the Board of Directors senior positions with for Mining &Metals.
played a leading role in the of Commerce degree from of Barrick in February Placer Dome.
regional integration of East Mr Tomsett has considerable the University of Toronto, 2016.
Mr Dushnisky also Africa, holding the position Mr Gordon has a proven board-level experience in the Canada and is a CPA, CA, represents Barrick at the of Secretary General of ability to deliver the resources sector.
World Gold Council, the the East African Community maximum potential from the as Non-Executive Chairman International Council on prior to his appointment operations he has managed, of Equinox Minerals until Mining and Metals and the to the Board.
He currently from reducing costs and its acquisition in 2011 and Business Council of Canada.
holds the position of Global increasing production is currently Non-Executive He joined Barrick in 2002.
President of the Society for to achieving operational Chairman of Silver Standard International Development Prior to joining Barrick, efficiencies and extending Resources Inc. and is the Chairman of Airtel he held management mine lives.
positions at EuroZinc holds a Mining Engineering Mining Corporation, Sutton degree from the Western Ambassador Juma V. Resources and Rescan Australia School of Mines Mwapachu holds a Bachelor Consultants.
Mr Dushnisky and an Executive MBA from of Law degree with Honours holds an Honors Bachelor INSEAD, France.
from the University of East of Science degree from Africa, a postgraduate the University of Manitoba, degree in International Law in addition to a Master from the Indian Academy, of Science degree and and Doctorates in Literature a Juris Doctor degree from Honoris Causa from the the University of British University of Dar es Salaam Columbia.
and Political Sciences Honoris Causa from the National University of Rwanda.
Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent No Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Nomination & Governance Not applicable Audit EHS&S Audit Compensation Nomination & Governance Nomination & Governance 50 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Michael Kenyon, age 66 Graham Clow, age 65 Steve Lucas, age 61 Rachel English, age 53 Stephen Galbraith, Independent Independent Independent Independent age 44 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed 2010 2013 2013 2013 2010 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Kenyon has more than Mr Clow is currently Mr Lucas is a Chartered Ms English is a Fellow of Mr Galbraith has been 40 years of experience Chairman and Principal Accountant with executive the Institute of Chartered employed by Barrick since in the mining industry and Mining Engineer of RPA Inc. experience in the extractives Accountants and previously August 2000 in treasury and is a geologist by training.
He is a senior mining sector, particularly oil held senior positions in finance functions, and is He is Chairman of the executive with 40 years and gas, and the power BG Group and Royal Dutch currently Managing Director Board of Directors at Detour experience in all aspects sector.
He has worked Shell, with responsibilities of Barrick International Gold Corporation.
He has of acquisitions, exploration, internationally, including in spanning finance, corporate Barbados Corporation.
previously been Chairman feasibility, finance, Tanzania, and has expertise strategy, mergers and Mr Galbraith previously held of the Board of Directors development, construction, in infrastructure finance acquisitions, and business the role of Audit Manager for of Troon Ventures Ltd, operations, and closure.
President and Chief Prior to joining RPA, he Finance Director at National is a Non-Executive Director Mr Galbraith holds a Executive Officer at both spent more than 20 years Grid plc from 2002 to 2010 of Kuwait Energy plc and the Bachelor of Arts degree Canico Resource Corp and in senior executive and and prior to this he worked Global Carbon Capture and in Accountancy from Sutton Resources Ltd, and operating positions with for 11 years in progressively Storage Institute and was Strathclyde University, is a Director of Cumberland publicly listed mining more senior positions previously a Non-Executive a member of the Institute Resources Ltd until their companies and is currently at Royal Dutch Shell and Director of Petropavlovsk of Chartered Accountants respective acquisition by Non-Executive Director for six years at BG Group plc until 2013.
She is also of Scotland and is a third parties.
of Dominion Diamond formerly British Gas.
He a member of the Audit Chartered Financial Analyst Corporation.
Mr Clow is is currently a Non-Executive Committee of the UKs Mr Kenyon holds a MSc Charterholder.
a former Chairman of the Director of Tullow Oil plc Department for International Geology from the University Metal Mining Division of and Transocean Ltd. From Development and is a of Alberta in Canada.
the Canadian Institute of 2004 until 2011 he was Non-Executive Director He was also the recipient Mining, Metallurgy, and a Non-Executive Director of Helios Social Enterprise, of the 2005 Developer of Petroleum CIM, and was of Compass Group plc.
which she co-founded to the Year award from the a Member of the Committee develop renewable energy Prospector and Developers Mr Lucas holds a BA in on Ore Reserve Definitions access projects in rural Association of Canada Geology from Oxford that established the sub-Saharan Africa.
in recognition of his University.
MsEnglish holds an Regulatory Standard MA in Politics, Philosophy NI43-101 for mining & Economics from Oxford companies.
Mr Clow is also a Fellow of CIM and has been awarded the Metal Mining Award for contributions to the industry.
Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Yes Yes Yes Yes No Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Compensation Compensation Compensation Audit Not applicable EHS&S EHS&S ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 51
