70 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction by Robert MacLeod, Audit Committee Chairman The Audit Committee is currently made up of four independent Non-executive Directors.
I have been Chairman of the Committee since December 2008: I am a chartered accountant and, until my appointment as Chief Executive of Johnson Matthey in June 2014, Iserved as Johnson Mattheys Group Finance Director for five years.
The members of the Committee, together with my own experience, bring an appropriate balance of financial and accounting experience with a deep understanding of Aggrekos business and markets.
Diana Layeld, Ian Marchant and I are the members of the Audit Committee identied with recent and relevant financial experience.
Robert MacLeod At our scheduled meetings we also invite the Chairman, Chief Audit Committee Chairman Executive officer and Chief Financial officer to attend, together with the Group Financial Controller, Director of Internal Audit and the External Audit Partner.
In 2015, the Committee held three scheduled meetings and several THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IS TO adhoc meetings.
The ad hoc meetings related to agreeing the process MONITOR AND REVIEW THE INTEGRITY OF and decision making criteria for the external audit tender and then THE GROUPS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO following the tender process, reviewing the proposals and agreeing on DETERMINE WHETHER THE JUDGEMENTS TAKEN a recommendation to make to the Board.
The scheduled meetings are BY MANAGEMENT ARE APPROPRIATE.
WE ALSO MONITOR THE INDEPENDENCE AND EFFECTIVENESS aligned to the Groups financial reporting timetable and allow sufficient OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND OVERSEE THE time for full discussion of key topics and to enable early identication GROUPS SYSTEMS FOR INTERNAL CONTROL and resolution of risks and issues.
To the left there is a summary of the key actions of the Committee in 2015 and intended areas of focus in 2016.
Further detail on our actions in 2015 are included in the full Audit Committee report detailed over the next few pages.
2015 Key achievements Oversaw the external audit tender process, making a recommendation to the Role of Audit Committee Board on the appointment of a new external auditor.
Monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including reviewing Reviewed and ensured compliance with the new UK Corporate Governance significant financial reporting issues and judgements alongside the Code requirements for going concern and viability statements.
findings of the external auditor.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management process.
Advise the Board on the effectiveness of the fair, balanced and Monitored the changes made to the financial control environment following understandable review of the Annual Report.
Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, external audit Provided oversight on the Groups risk management processes, receiving process, nature and scope of the external audit, including their presentations from the Group Financial Controller on financial controls under the new structure, the Director of Tax on the structure of the tax team, appointment, effectiveness, independence and fees.
strategy and control framework and the Chief Information officer on our cyber governance framework.
Oversee the nature and scope of internal audit, ensuring coordination with the activities of the external auditor.
Members in 2015 Review the effectiveness of the Groups systems for internal financial Meetings attended control, financial reporting and risk management.
Robert MacLeod Audit Committee Chairman CMA Order on Audit Committee compliance Russell King Senior Independent Director The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services for Large Diana Layeld Non-executive Director Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Ian Marchant Non-executive Director Processes and Audit Committee Responsibility Order 2014 during the year.
Areas of focus for 2016 Oversee the transition of responsibilities to the new external auditor.
Continue risk management oversight with presentations scheduled from the Directors of Finance for Power Solutions and Rental Solutions.
Managing the transition of responsibilities for the Chairmanship of the Committee from Robert MacLeod to Ian Marchant.
Audit Committee terms of reference: www.
pdf OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 71 The external auditor carried out their work using an overall materiality Main Activities of the Audit Committee during the year of 12.6 million, as stated in their report on page 102, and confirmed to Financial reporting the Committee that there were no material unadjusted misstatements.
During the course of the year, the Committee met with the external We also agreed with the external auditor that they would inform auditors and management as part of the 2015 Annual and Interim us of any unadjusted misstatements above 1 million, as well as Report approval process.
We reviewed the draft financial statements misstatements below that amount that warranted reporting for and considered a number of supporting papers, including: information qualitative reasons.
None were reported to the Committee.
presented by management on significant accounting judgements Following completion of the above steps, we agreed to recommend to ensure all issues raised have been properly dealt with: key points theapproval of the 2015 Annual and Interim Reports to the Board.
of disclosure and presentation to ensure adequacy, clarity and completeness: external audit reports: documentation prepared to support the viability statement and going concern statements given on pages 33 and 113: and information presented by management on the process underpinning the fair, balanced and understandable assessment and conrmation made by the Board on page 67.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2015 Annual Report were: significant financial judgements for 2015 Contract provisions Direct and indirect tax provisions One of the biggest risks facing the Group is non-payment by customers under some The Groups tax strategy is to manage all taxes, both direct and indirect, such that of the larger contracts in our Power Solutions Utility business see Principal Risks we pay the appropriate amount of tax in each country where we operate whilst and Uncertainties Failure to collect payment or to recover assets on page33.
ensuring that we respect the applicable tax legislation and utilise where appropriate Identiedas an area of judgement in our report last year, contract receivables and any legislative reliefs available.
However, given the varied, complex and often associated provisions within Power Solutions Utility is a key risk for the Group, uncertain nature of tax rules in certain countries, in particular in those in which we andone of the areas of particular external audit focus.
The Group policy is to have our Power Solutions business, we recognise that it makes sense to carry an consider each debtor and customer individually, within the relevant environment appropriate level of provision for both direct and indirect taxes.
The tax team monitors to which it relates, taking into account a number of factors, in accordance with the status of tax risks monthly and in detail at the half and full year.
process together with consideration of any relevant legislative change is then used to determine the appropriate level of provisions.
How the Audit Committee addressed those judgements Contract provisions Direct and indirect tax provisions The Committee addressed contract provisions by considering an accounting The Committee addressed tax provisions by considering an accounting judgements judgements paper at the August 2015 and March 2016 meetings, which was tabled paper at both the August 2015 and March 2016 meetings, which was tabled by by the Chief Financial officer.
This detailed the latest position of debtors outstanding the Chief Financial officer.
 reported on these provisions at the half year and year end and gave an assessment of the likelihood of collecting at the August 2015 meeting in the context of the half year review, and at both the future payments.
It was against this assessment that the Audit Committee assessed December 2015 and March 2016 meetings in the context of the year end audit.
the adequacy of the provisions.
 reported on these contract Wehave monitored and assessed the Groups processes for calculating and regularly provisions at both the August 2015 and March 2016 meetings in the context of the monitoring tax provisions.
half year review and the year end audit respectively.
In addition, the Committee We concluded that the judgements and estimates were reasonable and appropriate.
is aware that the Executive Committee receives a report on contract exposures each month and has assessed the Groups processes for calculating and regularly Moreinformation on Aggrekos tax strategy and payments in 2015 can be found in monitoring contract risk provisions.
We concluded that the judgements and estimates were reasonable and appropriate.
External auditor Audit plan The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the  presented their audit plan at the August Board in relation to the appointment of our external auditor.
We also 2015 meeting, setting out the scope and objectives of the audit approve the audit plan, terms of engagement and fees and assess together with an overview of the planned approach, an assessment their effectiveness.
of the Groups risks and controls and proposed areas of audit focus.
In setting the audit plan,  work with Internal Audit and management at a Group and business unit level to identify risk areas for the audit to determine where audit effort should be focused.
72 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The tender process and the Committees involvement in that process Effectiveness is outlined in the below diagram.
Robert MacLeod and Carole Cran The Committee believes that the independence, objectivity and met with a number of rms when making the decision as to which effectiveness of  and their processes is rms should be invited to tender.
In making that decision a number safeguarded and strong.
This is displayed through their robust internal of factors were considered, including: ability and appetite for our processes, their continuing challenge, focused reporting and their audit, ability to be independent in time for 1 January 2016, our discussions with management and the Committee.
During 2015, the own non-audit services policy and the list of prohibited non-audit Committee met with  without management services under the EU regulations, and whether a joint audit would present and the Committee Chairman also maintained regular be appropriate for Aggreko.
Following that decision we decided not contact with the audit partner throughout the year.
We assess to invite  to tender in light of the longevity of  through the quality of their audit findings their appointment and not to invite any rm that would require a joint and management responses.
We also use an internal questionnaire audit due to considerable concerns around audit quality, consistency sent to Committee members, the Business Unit Finance Directors ofreporting and day-to-day practicalities.
and Group Functional Heads in December 2015: respondents were asked to rate  effectiveness in a number of March areas, including robustness of the audit process, quality of delivery and quality of people and services.
Results were collated and Audit Committee decision to tender.
presented at the March 2016 meeting of the Committee for discussion.
Management concluded that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality April of the audit process to be effective.
The Committee concurred with this view.
Audit Committee agreed approach to tender, key decision criteria and appointed a selection panel, with a majority of Non-executive The Committee has identied the 2016 financial year as a potential Directors Robert MacLeod, Ian Marchant and Carole Cran.
period of increased risk given the transition of the statutory auditor andwill focus closely on this matter throughout the year.
Robert MacLeod and Carole Cran met with a number of rms to ascertain ability and appetite for our audit and decide which rms to invite to tender.
Non-audit services To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor May from becoming compromised, the Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit Invitation to tender sent to KPMG, Deloitte and EY.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such Data room opened: contained documentation to allow the rms a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
to gain a better understanding of how the Group is structured Any proposal to use the external auditor for non-audit work requires andoperates.
prior approval of the Chief Financial officer and depending on the Information gathering meetings between the rms and Aggrekos nature of the service and fee involved, authorisation may also be financial leadership team to obtain information and insight into the required from the Committee Chairman or the Committee.
The non-audit services policy is available on our website at: www.
com pdf Non audit service policy.
pdf June Non-audit fees are monitored by the Committee and this year we Meeting between the rms engagement partners and Chris Weston were satisfied that all non-audit work undertaken was in line with our and Carole Cran to discuss how the rms would structure their policy and did not detract from the objectivity and independence of audit at an operational level and work with our management team.
The majority of the non-audit work carried out by Written proposals received outlining the audit team, geographic  during the year related to tax and minor local footprint alignment, audit approach, transition approach compliance services.
As a percentage of the overall audit fee for the challenges, independence considerations and fee proposal.
year, other assurance services and non-audit fees are 16% 2014: 26%.
Review of the written proposals to shortlist two rms to present to Further details of the fees paid to the external auditor are set out in Note the Audit Committee selection panel.
Shortlisted rms present on audit approach, with a question and answer session to the Audit Committee selection panel.
Tender of external audit  have been the Companys external auditor Audit Committee selection panel meeting to evaluate the rms since 1997 when Aggreko plc was incorporated, upon the fide-merger using agreed key decision criteria.
The Committee has closely followed the legislative developments on audit tendering and rotation from July the EU and the Competition & Markets Authority and at our March 2015 meeting we discussed the new requirements.
Despite the Audit Committee selection panel make recommendation to exibility offered by the transitional arrangements to delay a rotation the Board.
until 2023, we agreed to put the external audit out to tender in 2015, given the changes in management and to t in with the timing of the Board accepts recommendation of the Audit Committee selection panel and announces the decision to the London Stock Exchange.
next rotation of the current audit partner, scheduled for 2016.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 73 Having concluded the process in June 2015, the Committee Viability statement recommended to the Board that KPMG be appointed as the Groups During the course of 2015, the Committee, along with the Board, has statutory auditor for the financial year ending 31 December 2016. received a number of detailed updates in relation to the requirements The Board accepted the Audit Committees recommendation, for the new viability statement.
Updates included agreeing the accordingly, a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG as our methodology and approach, length of the assessment period, risks auditor will be put to the Shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
There are no and uncertainties to be modelled, qualications and assumptions contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external made.
An early draft of the viability statement was circulated to the auditor and we do not indemnify our external auditor.
Committee and Board in late January 2016 for review, to enable timely sign off of the viability statement at the March 2016 meeting.
Following the external audit tender process and in line with our nonaudit services policy, Group Finance put our global tax compliance Read our viability statement on page 33. work out to tender in August 2015, resulting in a change of rm from KPMG to .
Internal audit Internal Audit undertakes financial, operational and strategic audits Risk management and internal control across the Aggreko Group using a risk based methodology and Aggrekos objective is to have a strong and regularly monitored in accordance with the changing risk prole of the Company.
control environment that minimises financial risk and, as part of our The Committee reviewed and agreed the programme of 2015 internal responsibilities, we review the effectiveness of systems for internal audit work, including the proposed approach, coverage, and allocation financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
We also reviewed progress, audit results and remedial reviewed the risk management process in detail with Group Internal actions during the year through reports at each meeting.
Audit and oversaw the implementation of a new risk management The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the internal audit framework.
Further detail on the process for the new risk management function by reviewing their reports, progress against the 2015 plan, framework can be found in the accountability section of the Corporate ensuring implementation of the improvements identied from the 2014 Governance Report on page 66 and further details on the new risk internal review and meeting with the Director of Internal Audit without management framework can be found in the risk section of the management being present.
In line with the Institute of Internal Auditors Strategic Report on page 26. guidance, we plan to undertake an external evaluation of Internal We aim to ensure that the same high standards are applied throughout Audit in 2016, with internal evaluations in the intervening years: our last the business with the framework set at Group level.
Across the Group, external evaluation was undertaken in 2011. there is a strong focus on training and development and this helps to underline the standards that we require.
We then monitor this Speaking up process through regular financial control reviews and a financial control The Group Ethics Policy, supported by a separate Speaking Up Policy, checklist.
This also enables us to set targets and identify and monitor encourages all employees to report any potential improprieties in ethical areas for improvement.
standards via our international whistle-blowing hotline.
All matters reported are investigated and where appropriate, we ask Internal Audit We agreed financial control deliverables for 2015, as proposed by to investigate the issue and report to us on the outcome.
We also the Chief Financial officer, including addressing countries with lower receive reports on hotline call volumes and the general nature and financial control checklist scores and ensuring sufficient support at a location of matters reported.
We review these processes each year, Group or regional level for our less mature businesses.
At the end of the and can confirm that they are appropriate for the size and scale of year, we reviewed progress for 2015 and agreed proposed priorities for the Group.
Our financial control priorities for 2016 have been set after going through the following process: Review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee Setting out the key challenges for financial control and then reviewing The independent Board evaluation exercise undertaken in 2015 the control environment and risk mitigation in place to help address confirmed that the Audit Committee was working effectively.
these challenges: Reviewing the 2015 financial control checklist scores for all of our locations globally and cross referring them against the 2015 internal audit reports: The Financial Leadership team reviewed the above data and analysis to set clear priorities for 2016: and The Chief Financial officer then proposed these priorities to the Audit Committee and we have agreed with the approach.
The key priorities for 2016 include a number of specic actions which focus on embedding our financial control framework into the new business structure, meeting set targets for internal audit gradings and providing assurance to the Committee that financial controls are in place for applicable items on the Group Risk Register.
