Corporate Governance Report CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report, which describes how the main principles of the U. K. Corporate Governance Code have been applied during the year.
Information about the Board, its members and committees, and an overview of the Companys system of internal controls are included.
There were a number of changes to the Board during the year.
Ronald Hanna retired from the Board on 31 December 2014 and I replaced him as Chairman of the Company and of the Nomination Committee with effect from 1 January 2015.
Ronald served on the Board for 11 years, with 5 years as Chairman.
The Board would like to thank Ronald for his significant contribution to the Company during that time.
Martin Griffiths replaced me as senior independent non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2015.
Alex Short resigned as Finance Director of the Company on 29 August 2014.
Alex was Finance Director of the Company for 6 years, across a period of major growth in the business, and the Board would like to thank Alex for his significant contribution to the Company during that time.
We welcomed the appointment of Stuart Lorimer to the Board as Finance Director on 5 January 2015.
Stuart is an experienced finance professional who held a wide range of senior financial roles and worked in many countries internationally during his 22 year career with Diageo plc.
Further details of the Boards composition are given on pages 38 and 39.
John R. Nicolson Chairman 24 March 2015 THE BOARD The Company is led by a strong and experienced board of directors the Board which brings a depth and diversity of expertise to the leadership of the Company.
The Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The Board currently has eight members, comprising four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, two independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 38 and 39.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive directors.
The Chairman also ensures that Board meetings are underpinned by a culture of openness and challenge, with sufficient time made available to debate issues arising.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated from the Board.
The senior independent non-executive director, M. A. Griffiths, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, or the other executive directors, or where communication through such channels would be inappropriate.
The Board considers that M. A. Griffiths and P. Powell are independent for the purposes of provision B.
1.1 of the U. K. Corporate Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code, and that the relationships and circumstances set out in that provision which may appear relevant to the determination of independence do not apply.
The Board considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
J. R. Nicolson and M. A. Griffiths both fulfilled the role of senior independent director during the year to 25 January 2015.
J. R. Nicolson was the senior independent director until he became Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2015 and M. A. Griffiths became the senior independent director with effect from that date.
In addition to his role as Chairman of the Company, J. R. Nicolson is a director of Stocks Spirits Group plc, deputy chairman of Compania Cervecerias Unidas S. A. Chile and director of North American Breweries Inc.
The Board does not consider that J. R. Nicolsons other commitments have any impact on his ability to discharge his duties as Chairman of the Company effectively.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire no later than the third annual general meeting after the annual general meeting at which they were last elected or re-elected.
However, in order to comply with the Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 62.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 45 Corporate Governance Report Continued ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Group, determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, including approval of the Groups annual business plan, the Groups strategy, acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds, all guarantees, treasury policies, the financial statements, the Companys dividend policy, transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company shares, borrowing powers, appointments to the Board, alterations to the memorandum and articles of association, legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain thresholds, and the scope of delegations to Board committees, subsidiary boards and the management committee.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the executive directors and a management committee, which as at the date of this report includes the executive directors and eight senior managers.
BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Every year the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors is evaluated.
This year the evaluation process was carried out internally, having been externally facilitated last year 2013 14.
The process was led by the Chairman, who conducted a detailed and comprehensive evaluation process using written survey questionnaires.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The results of the evaluation were shared with all members of the Board.
Overall, it was noted that the Board and its committees were operating in an effective manner and performing satisfactorily, with no major issues identified.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that, following performance evaluation of the directors, all of the directors performances continue to be effective and all of the directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the role of director, including commitment of time for Board meetings and committee meetings and any other relevant duties.
INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL ADVICE Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under review.
All directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive directors have access to senior management of the business.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the Groups businesses, the risks and strategic challenges the Group faces, and the economic, competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with the other training provided during the year, ensures that directors continually update their skills, their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups businesses, and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil effectively their role on the Board and committees of the Board.
MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE Board meetings are scheduled to be held seven times each year.
Between these meetings, as required, additional Board meetings and or Board committee meetings may be held to progress the Companys business.
A part of each Board meeting is dedicated to the discussion of specific strategy matters.
In advance of all Board meetings the directors are supplied with detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Groups operating functions.
Members of the management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of information provided to it.
The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors during the year without the executive directors being present.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 46 Corporate Governance Report Continued The attendance of directors at scheduled Board and committee meetings in the year to 25 January 2015 was as follows: Remuneration Nomination Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Maximum 7 Maximum 4 Maximum 6 Maximum 6 Executive R. A.
White attended Board committee meetings during the year by invitation.
B. C. Short resigned from the Company on 29 August 2014 and could have attended a maximum of four Board meetings.
B. C. Short attended Audit Committee meetings during the year by invitation.
S. Lorimer joined the Company on 5 January 2015 and could have attended a maximum of one Board meeting.
S. Lorimer attended an Audit Committee meeting during the year by invitation.
R. G. Hanna retired from the Board on 31 December 2014 and could have attended a maximum of six Board meetings, five Remuneration Committee meetings and five Nomination Committee meetings.
J. R. Nicolson was appointed Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2015 and could have attended a maximum of three Audit Committee meetings.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Articles allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise from time to time, subject to certain conditions.
The Company has established appropriate conflicts authorisation procedures, whereby actual or potential conflicts are regularly reviewed and authorisations sought as appropriate.
During the year, no such conflicts arose and no such authorisations were sought.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The terms of reference of the principal committees of the Board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website, www.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Nomination Committee in discharging its responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Audit Committee is described within the Audit Committees Report on pages 51 to 53.
The work carried out by the Remuneration Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 77.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee comprises J. R. Nicolson, W. R. G. Barr, M. A. Griffiths and P. Powell.
J. R. Nicolson replaced R. G. Hanna as Chairman of the Nomination Committee following R. G. Hannas retirement from the Company on 31 December 2014.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for making appointments to the Board and ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
The remit of the Nomination Committee also includes reviewing the composition of the Board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of directors and ensuring plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the membership of its committees.
The Nomination Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least once per year.
The Nomination Committee met six times during the year and considered, amongst other matters, the recruitment of a Finance Director and an additional non-executive director for recommendation to the Board.
In identifying a potential new Finance Director and non-executive director, the Nomination Committee retained the services of The Zygos Partnership, an external search consultant.
The Zygos Partnership has no other connection with the Company other than the provision of these services.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 47 Corporate Governance Report Continued During the year the Nomination Committee also considered the appointment of J. R. Nicolson as Chairman of the Board with effect from 1 January 2015.
It was announced on 27 May 2014 that J. R. Nicolson would assume the role of Deputy Chairman with immediate effect and take on the role of Chairman following R. G. Hannas retirement from the Company on 31 December 2014.
In light of J. R. Nicolsons extensive experience in the consumer goods and beverages sectors, the Nomination Committee considered that he had all of the skills and experience necessary to successfully fulfil the role of Deputy Chairman.
Accordingly, the Nomination Committee did not consider it necessary to seek guidance from external search consultants, or place open advertisements, in relation to the appointment of J. R. Nicolson as Deputy Chairman.
During the transition period between 27 May and 31 December 2014, the Nomination Committee did not have any basis upon which to reconsider that earlier view and accordingly J. R. Nicolson was appointed Chairman of the Board with effect from 1 January 2015.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity to the success of the business and is firmly committed to giving due consideration to all aspects of diversity, including gender diversity.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
Whilst no formal measurable objectives have been set for female representation at Board level, the Board remains committed to the principles of gender diversity.
The disclosure relating to gender diversity within the Company is included in the Corporate Responsibility Report forming part of the Strategic Report on page 34.
TREASURY COMMITTEE The Treasury Committee consists of R. A.
White, S. Lorimer and senior members of the finance and purchasing departments.
The Treasury Committee reviews purchase requirements in foreign currencies and implements strategies, including the use of foreign exchange hedges, in order to reduce the risk of foreign exchange exposure and provide certainty over the value of non-domestic purchases in the short to medium term.
The Treasury Committees remit also includes the ability to utilise certain financial instruments in order to hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and annually reviews their effectiveness, including a review of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems, including controls related to financial, operational and reputational risks identified by the Group, in accordance with the Code for the period from 27 January 2014 to the date of approval of this annual report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review.
Had any failings or weaknesses been identified then the Board would have taken the action required to remedy them.
At the Audit Committee meeting on 15 January 2015, following a review and evaluation of the controls and systems in place, the Audit Committee concluded that the Group has a sound system of internal controls in place.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process, embedded in the Groups integrated internal control systems, allowing for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks, as well as a reporting process to the Board.
The Board requires the departments within the Group to undertake at least an annual review to identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Board via the Audit Committee.
This process has been in place throughout the year ended 25 January 2015 and up to the date of the approval of this annual report.
The three main elements of the Groups internal control system, including risk identification, are as follows: The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority as well as appropriate reporting procedures.
The Board has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision, aimed at maintaining effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
This structure includes the Audit Committee which, with the Finance Director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 48 Corporate Governance Report Continued Financial reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the Board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash flow statement, statement of financial position and indebtedness, is reported.
The Board and the management committee review their business and financial performance against the prior year and against annual plans approved by the Board.
Audits and reviews The key internal risks identified in the Group are subject to regular audits or reviews by the internal auditors.
This role is fulfilled by an external professional services firm which is independent from the Board and the Company.
The review of the internal auditors work by the Audit Committee and monitoring procedures in place ensure that the findings of the audits are acted upon and subsequent reviews confirm compliance with any agreed action plans.
The Board confirms that there has been an independent internal audit function in place for the year.
SHARE CAPITAL STRUCTURE The share capital structure of the Company is set out in the Directors Report.
U. K. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
Each of the provisions of the Code has been reviewed and, where necessary, steps have been taken to ensure that the Company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this report.
The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 25 January 2015 with the provisions of the Code, except as set out below.
Prior to 29 August 2014, the Board comprised four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, and three independent non-executive directors.
In addition, W. R. G. Barr was a non-executive director during the year although he is not considered by the Board to be independent.
B. C. Shorts resignation on 29 August 2014, the Board composition was the same with the exception that there were three executive directors.
Following R. G. Hannas retirement on 31 December 2014, J. R. Nicolsons appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2015 and S. Lorimers appointment as Finance Director on 5 January 2015, the Board comprised four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, two independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
Accordingly, during the year to 25 January 2015 the composition of the Board did not, at any time, comply with provision B.
The non-compliance of the Boards committees with the provisions of the Code was for the limited period from 1 January to 25 January 2015 for the year ended 25 January 2015 and was a consequence of R. G. Hannas retirement on 31 December 2014 and J. R. Nicolsons appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2015.
The composition of the Companys Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee did not comply with provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 of the Code at all times during the year to 25 January 2015 due to the fact that these Committees did not, during the period 1 January 2015 to 25 January 2015, comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
With regard to the Audit Committee, this non-compliance was due to J. R. Nicolson stepping down from the Audit Committee following his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2015, following which the Audit Committee comprised two independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
With regard to the Remuneration Committee, this non-compliance was due to J. R. Nicolson ceasing to qualify as an independent non-executive director for the purposes of provision D. 2.1 of the Code following his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2015, following which the Remuneration Committee comprised two independent non-executive directors, one non-independent non-executive director and the Chairman of the Company.
In addition, at the request of the Board, J. R. Nicolson continued to chair the Remuneration Committee following his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2015 until the recruitment of a new independent non-executive director with the capability to replace him in that capacity could be completed.
In this regard, the Board is pleased to confirm that David Ritchie, CEO of Bovis Homes plc, will join the Board and its sub-committees on 1 April 2015, replacing J. R. Nicolson as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, with effect from 1 July 2015.
Following these appointments, the composition of these Committees will comply with the revised U. K. Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the 2014 Code in full, which will apply to the Company from its 2015 16 financial year.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 49 Corporate Governance Report Continued The composition of the Companys Nomination Committee did not comply with provision B.
2.1 of the Code at all times during the year to 25 January 2015 due to the fact that this Committee did not, during the period 1 January 2015 to 25 January 2015, comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors.
This non-compliance was due to R. G. Hanna retiring from the Board on 31 December 2014 and J. R. Nicolson replacing him as Chairman of the Nomination Committee, following which the Nomination Committee comprised two independent non-executive directors, one non-independent non-executive director and the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Again, following the appointment of David Ritchie to the Nomination Committee, the composition of this Committee will comply with the 2014 Code in full.
Provision D. 1.5 of the Code recommends that executive directors contracts contain a maximum notice period of one year.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, the service contracts with R. A.
White, J. D. Kemp and A. L. Memmott provide for a notice period of 12 months except during the six months following either a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
Under these conditions and certain circumstances the directors are entitled to a liquidated damages payment equal tothe directors basic salary at terminationplusthe value of all contractual benefits for atwo year period.
Given the size of the Company and the sector dynamics at the time these directors were recruited, the Remuneration Committee considered this provision appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, this provision will continue to be honoured as a contractual commitment made to these directors: however this provision was not included in S. Lorimers service contract and will not be included in service contracts with other new executive directors appointed in future.
A copy of the financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
A. Barr Company Secretary 24 March 2015 A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 50
