OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 59 LEADERSHIP Diversity metrics as at 31 December 2015 Building the pipeline for Board diversity Executive Independent Non-executive Gender of senior management composition of Board No.
% Executive 2 29% Male 51 78% Non-executive 571% Female 14 22% As required by Code provision B.
1.2, this We have selected the composition of our Senior calculation excludes the Chairman when Leadership Team as we believe this to be a lookingat the independent Non-executive better reection of our senior management composition of the Board structure than the composition of our subsidiary companies, which is made up of 84 males and vefemales.
The Senior Leadership Team is madeup of direct reports of the Executive Committee and other key roles.
Gender of Board Gender of permanent employees No.
% Male 6 75% Male 5,055 84% Female 2 25% Female 960 16% There are 102 nationalities across Aggrekos permanent employees.
Tenure of Non-executive Directors Nationality diversity No.
% % 0-3 years 2 40% European inc Russia 26% 3-6 years 1 20% Latin American 21% 6-9 years 2 40% North American 19% Asian 18% African 11% Australian 4% Middle Eastern 1% Sector experience of Board Energy Finance International 75% 63% 100% Rental Engineering 13% 25% How we divide up our responsibilities Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
Setting the agenda to take full account of the issues and concerns of the Directors and ensuring the links between the Shareholders, Board and management are strong.
Chief Executive officer Responsible for the day-to-day leadership, management and control of the Group, for recommending the Group strategy to the Board and ensuring that the strategy and decisions of the Board are implemented via the Executive Committee.
Chief Financial officer Responsible for the day-to-day management of the financial risk of the Group and providing general support to the Chief Executive officer including the operational performance of the business.
Senior Independent Provides a sounding board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary and is Director available to meet with Shareholders.
Independent NonConstructively challenge the Directors and monitor the delivery of the Group strategy within the risk and control executive Directors environment set by the Board.
Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive officer and is available to all Directors for advice and support.
Informs the Board and Committees on governance matters and responsible for development of corporate governance policies.
60 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP Role of the Board and Committees The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
To retain control of key decisions, the Board has a schedule of matters It sets our strategy and oversees its implementation, ensuring decisions reserved for the Board that only it can approve, with other matters, made reect our risk appetite.
It provides leadership and direction and responsibilities and authorities delegated to its Committees.
has responsibility for corporate governance and the overall financial performance of the Group.
The Board is supported in this role by its Read our schedule of matters reserved for the Board: principal committees, outlined in the table below.
com pdf matters reserved for the board.
pdf Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Ethics Committee Committee Committee Committee Monitors and reviews the Determines the remuneration Monitors and reviews Monitors compliance and integrity of Aggrekos financial for Executive Directors the composition and oversees the effectiveness statements, the relationship and the Executive balance of the Board of our ethical policies and with the external auditor and Committee members and and its Committees to procedures to ensure oversight of our systems oversees Aggrekos overall ensure Aggreko has the that Aggreko conducts its for internal control and risk remuneration policy, strategy right structure, skills and business with integrity and management.
experience in place for the honesty and in accordance effective management of the with the law.
Committee report Committee report Committee report Committee report Page 70 Page 78 Page 76 Page 74 CEO Disclosure Committee Finance Committee Allotment Committee Executive Committee Supports the Board in Responsible for funding and Responsible for decisions Operates under the direction approving the final form of any treasury decisions.
regarding the allotment of and authority of the CEO.
It announcement or statement shares.
is responsible for supporting relating to the performance of the CEO in all aspects of his the Group.
The Executive Committee also sponsors and has overall accountability for delivering against the initiatives designed to underpin the new business priorities and enhance our existing competitive advantages.
Key to Committees Non-Board Board OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 61 Board meetings in 2015 Jan 15 Feb 15 Mar 15 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Board meetings In 2015, the Board held six scheduled meetings.
At each meeting the Board received reports from: The CEO on strategic, operational and business developments and health and safety: The CFO on the performance of the business, capital structure, eet, budget, treasury and investor relations: and Each of the Board Committees on matters discussed at their meetings.
The Board also received reports on our ethics compliance framework and new technology and product updates.
In addition to the regular items, the key areas of focus were: Topic Activity Discussion Actions arising Progress Strategy Undertake a review Review was sponsored by the Agreed three business priorities to deliver sustainable growth: toanalyse the full CEO, with the support of the customer, technology andefciency.
Agreed a number of initiatives to underpin the business priorities forthe Aggreko An external adviser was appointed andenhance our existing competitive advantages.
businessand the to provide analytical support.
operating model Approved the reorganisation of the business fromthe regional requiredto deliver A number of workshops were held model of Americas, APAC andEMEA to two business units: thatpotential.
with the Executive Committee and PowerSolutionsand Rental Solutions.
a working session with the Senior Appointed a Group Programme Director to lead the Programme Leadership Team to examine our Management Ofce, to drive delivery of the initiatives underpinning markets, customers, technology, the business priorities, provide challenge, assurance, risk competition, operating model, management and regular reports to the Board on progress.
costbase, our people and culture.
Monitor opportunities Reviewed a number of opportunities Acquired ICS Group Inc independent provider of portable climate foracquisitions.
in 2015. control services in Canada inSeptember 2015.
Read more about our business priorities Page 22 Risk Review the Group risk Clearly articulate our risk appetite, Dened our risk appetite and agreed a new risk management management register, risk appetite review the risk management framework, taking account of the new UK Corporate Governance and internal andeffectiveness of framework, review and update our Coderequirements.
control the risk management approach to identify and manage Revised management tool to capture, assess and proactively processto ensure we principal risks.
manage the risks facing Aggreko.
have a robust, repeatable risk management Group risk register substantially updated to reectour new framework which organisational structure and business priorities.
delivers an effective Robust assessment of our principal risks, risk management andefcient approach framework and internal control systems undertaken across to risk management and theyear.
positively contributes to effective decision making Agreed to continue to monitor best practice and rene the risk and business growth.
Read more about our risk management process and principal risks Page 26 62 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP Topic Activity Discussion Actions arising Progress Leadership and Review composition of The reorganisation of the business Approved the appointment of Bruce Pool asPresident, employees Board andCommittees required a number of changes RentalSolutions.
to maintain balance to thestructure of our Board and Approved the appointment of Nicolas Fournier as Managing throughout the review Executive Committee.
Initiated a search foracandidate to ll the permanent role of Managing Director, Power Solutions.
Discussed employee Ensure continued employee Increased number of PULSE employee surveysto monitor the engagement, engagement throughout the impact of the reorganisation onour employees.
organisational culture reviewof business priorities.
Senior Leadership Team established to feed into review of andstructure.
business priorities and improve cascade ofcommunications toemployees.
Ongoing training Encourage interaction between Board visits to Singapore head ofce, Singapore site, Medan site and development for Board members and employees in Indonesia and Manufacturing facility inDumbarton.
Inductions completed by end of Q2 2015.
Inductions for new Directors: ChrisWeston and Uwe Krueger.
Read more about our new appointments Read more about our visit to Singapore Page 54 Page 63 Governance Discussed format Appointed an external facilitator, Implemented all of the action points for 2015 identiedas part forBoard evaluation Boardroom Review, for the 2015 ofour internal evaluation in 2014 and all of the key priorities for in2015.
Board evaluation, discussed the 2015 identied in our 2014 Annual Report.
outcome of the process and Agreed 2016 action plan for the Board.
reviewed progress against Board evaluation actions for 2015.
Discussed impact Ensure existing policies and Refreshed training for Persons Discharging Managerial ofthenew Market procedures are in line with best Responsibilities on their obligations under the existing regime AbuseRegulation.
practice and prepare for regulatory andlikely impact of the Market Abuse Regulation.
Adopted new share dealing code for employees and procedures for listing rules compliance.
Oversaw external Reviewed the recommendations Appointed new external auditor KPMG, subject to Shareholder audit tender process made by the Audit Committee.
Read more about our Board evaluation Page 64 Shareholders Strong engagement Actively support engagement Provided a detailed update to the market, Shareholders and with stakeholders opportunities and understand analysts on the reorganisation and business priorities.
As well as reviewing regular feedback on the updates provided to the market and investor roadshows, wehave also commissioned an investor audit to gather detailed feedback from our Shareholders, theresults of which will be reviewed in early 2016.
Complete the return Following Shareholder approval at Following completion of the second purchase of BShares, ofcapital.
the 2015AGM, make a second offer approved the conversion of any remaining BShares to to purchase B Shares.
Read more about our shareholder engagement programme Page 68 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 63 GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: BOARD MEETING IN SINGAPORE, JUNE 2015 The Board visiting Site visits give the Board key a40MW diesel insights into the business: at least Power Solutions site one meeting each year is held in Medan, Indonesia, June 2015. at a location outside London or Glasgow to give the Directors an opportunity to review operations and meet local employees.
In June 2015, the Board met in Singapore, the head ofce location for our Asia business.
During their visit the Directors received presentations from the Asia Pacic leadership team, hosted a dinner with the Asia Pacic leadership team to give the Board the opportunity to engage with those individuals informally and received a guided tour of the Singapore facility.
This is our largest depot in Asia and the supply chain hub for Asia, supporting all of our Power Solutions sites and Key priorities for 2016 depots for parts and inventory.
It is also a dedicated training centre for Asia with facilities for both technical and soft Closely monitor the work of the Programme Management Ofce to ensure skills training.
The Board also spent the initiatives underpinning the business priorities are delivered on time and in time with the operations team, learning accordance with the plan.
about how they develop the capability Review and approve succession plans and talent management to take of their people, operations processes account of the reorganisation to Power Solutions and Rental Solutions.
and the efficiency management processes in place for the warehouse Implement the key recommendations of the externally facilitated and eet to maximise utilisation and Board evaluation.
Plan a Board visit to the Rental Solutions business in North America to review The trip concluded with a visit to the North American business and engage with local employees.
We will report our 40MW diesel site in Medan, on this in our 2016 Annual Report.
The Board learnt about the management of the site, the on-site project undertaken to convert from standard G3 diesel engines to higher Board attendance in 2015 efficiency G3 diesel engines and Board Percentage the process to train and employ local meetings attended Indonesian staff resulting in 90% of the Name of Director A B site being operated by local Indonesian Ken Hanna 6 6 100% staff.
The Board also met the local Indonesian team and the customers for Chris Weston 6 6 100% the Medan site.
Carole Cran 6 6 100% 1 Debajit Das 5 5 100% 2 Asterios Satrazemis 6 6 100% 3 David Taylor-Smith 3 3 100% Russell King 6 6 100% 4 Uwe Krueger 6 5 83% Diana Layeld 6 6 100% Robert MacLeod 6 6 100% Ian Marchant 6 6 100% 5 Rebecca McDonald 5 5 100% A maximum number of meetings Director could have attended.
B actual number of meetings Director attended.
1 Debajit Das retired from the Board on 15 October 2015.
2 Asterios Satrazemis retired from the Board on 17 December 2015.
3 David Taylor-Smith retired from the Board on 1 August 2015.
4 Uwe Krueger joined the Board on 1 February 2015 and had a pre-existing commitment for the June meeting.
5 Rebecca McDonald retired from the Board on 1 December 2015.
