54 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE A LETTER FROM OUR CHAIRMAN Introduction Board and People PRIORITIES 2015 has been a challenging year As a result of the difficult environment OUR THREE for Aggreko with the impact of low and our focus on efficiency, PRIORITIES ARE commodity prices, in particular oil, approximately 700 employees have DESIGNED TO together with slower economic growth left the Group.
This was unfortunate DELIVER GROWTH in many emerging markets resulting in a but inevitable, given the impact of AT ATTRACTIVE MARGINS disappointing financial performance for the external macro factors and the Read more the Group.
Page 4 I am pleased that our new CEO, Chris During the year, three Executive Weston, has settled in well and despite Directors left the business: the macro headwinds, has quickly Debajit Das, Regional Director learnt the business and decisively Asia Pacic and Australia left in launched a new set of business October 2015: priorities for Aggreko.
David Taylor-Smith, Regional Director The strategy review was an extremely EMEA left in August 2015: and comprehensive exercise led by T his year Chris and the Executive team, Asterios Satrazemis, President has been about re-organisation supplemented by external resources.
Americas left in December 2015. and creating a strong platform for The Non-executive Directors were also sustainable profitable growth.
Also during the year, Rebecca heavily involved in the process and McDonald stepped down as a the new priorities were launched in Non-executive Director after serving August 2015. athree-year term.
As a consequence of our new priorities, I would like to thank all four exwe reorganised the Group from colleagues for their service and three regions Americas, EMEA and contribution to Aggreko and to wish Asia Pacic and Australia into two them well.
Ken Hanna business units, Rental Solutions and Power Solutions.
Rental Solutions, Chairman Bruce Pool, who has been with representing approximately 40% of Aggreko in a number of roles over Group revenues, is a transactional 17 years, was appointed President business operating in developed Rental Solutions in December markets providing power to customers 2015 and Nicolas Fournier, who who need it quickly and typically for a brings over 25 years of international short period of time.
Power Solutions, experience including many years with representing approximately 60% of the Lafarge Group, was appointed Group revenues, is predominantly Managing Director Power Solutions a projects business operating in inNovember 2015. emerging markets providing power Following the reorganisation of the to customers with larger and more Group into two business units, we complex requirements, typically for considered what implications this longer periods.
should have for the structure and The strategic direction of the Group composition of the Board.
will not change dramatically: we will After careful consideration, the Board still be focused on providing modular, decided that it was not necessary for mobile power and related solutions the heads of the two new business anywhere in the world.
However, units to be members of the Board.
we have recognised that Aggreko We do however believe that it is needed to evolve in order to maintain important for the Board to interact with our clear, market-leading position and the heads of the Rental Solutions and the increased focus on three priorities Power Solutions businesses and they of our customers, our technology will regularly attend Board meetings.
and our efficiency are designed to deliver growth at attractive margins and returns.
