Nominations committee Members During 2015, the nominations committee comprised the The nominations committee is primarily Chairman, Linda Adamany and Colin Day.
The quorum for focused on evaluating the board of directors the committee is two members.
There were five committee and on examining the skills, characteristics and meetings held in the year.
dynamics that are needed to run an effective Membership and attendance of the nominations board.
committee up to 31 December 2015 Meeting attendance Dear shareholder, John Connolly Chairman 5 5 The Group has undergone transformational changes over the past year and, more than ever, the role of the nominations Linda Adamany 5 5 committee is a key one.
Colin Day 4 5 In 2015, Kent Masters and Roy Franklin were appointed to Meetings of the committee are usually called at short notice the board, bringing with them valuable oil & gas experience.
Succession and evolutionary change remain our key priorities, to consider matters as they arise.
This means that members may not always be available, but they are always fully apprised taking into account our commitment to diversity and inclusion.
of matters to be discussed and their views sought and taken You will be aware that Ian McHoul was appointed into the role into account.
Colin Day was unable to attend one meeting of interim CEO following Samir Brikhos departure.
The board called at short notice due to a prior commitment.
has mandated Mr McHoul to continue to drive forward the At its meeting on 2 December 2015, the board approved minor Companys previously stated priorities and he will continue amendments to the terms of reference for the committee.
to fulfil this dual role until a new CEO is appointed.
I am These are available to review on amecfw.
com leading the succession process on behalf of the nominations committee and we will make an announcement as soon as we With effect from 1 January 2016, the membership of have made a decision.
the committee now comprises: John Connolly Chairman, Colin Day, Linda Adamany and Roy Franklin.
You can see from the charts on page 46 that we have a strong blend of skills, experience and length of service amongst your Key responsibilities board of directors and I see no reason that this should not be The committee is mindful of the boards desire to maintain maintained as your company rises to the challenges we will an appropriately diverse and balanced membership, in terms inevitably face in 2016 and beyond.
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group, taking into account the benefits of diversity, so as to ensure the delivery of the Groups strategy and performance.
The committee regularly reviews the boards structure, size and composition against these criteria and the board selection criteria referred to on page 54.
John Connolly Chairman of the nominations committee Together with the board, the committee also considers board 10 March 2016 succession planning in conjunction with reports from the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director on senior management succession planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is maintained both within the senior management team and on the board.
As part of the externally conducted board effectiveness review undertaken in 2015, the performance of the committee was also evaluated and this was overall rated highly.
As an area for further improvement, it was suggested that the committee ought to periodically review the Business Unit Group President succession plans.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 53 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Leadership and effectiveness continued Nominations committee continued Activities of the committee Following Samir Brikhos departure on 17 January 2016, Prior to Simon Thompsons retirement in May 2015, a key focus for the committee will be to find his successor.
the committee considered potential replacements for The Company has appointed the executive search firm, Korn his role as Senior Independent Director and as Chairman Ferry, to assist the Company in its search for a new CEO, which of the remuneration committee.
After careful consideration, will consider both internal and external candidates.
A role the committee concluded that Neil Carson best met the specification has been prepared to assist in distilling a long list required criteria and a recommendation was made to the of candidates against the role requirements.
Both internal and board accordingly.
external candidates will be interviewed by the Chairman and Group Human Resources Director and the resulting shortlist At the same time, the committee considered the of candidates will be interviewed by all board members.
reappointment of the Chairman for a second three-year Full details of the process will be disclosed in next years term of office, as his first three-year term ended at the report.
Korn Ferry also assisted the board with an exercise 2015 AGM.
His significant experience and his excellent to strengthen the senior executive pipeline in 2014 and have, chairmanship during a period of significant change resulted from time to time, assisted with searches for other senior in a recommendation being made to the board to reappoint management roles.
Other than this, they have not undertaken him for a second three-year term.
any other work of any kind for the board or the Company.
The committee also considered and recommended the appointment of Linda Adamany as a new member of the remuneration committee with effect from 30 April 2015.
In July 2015, the committee reviewed and recommended the adoption by the board of amended board selection criteria, to be used to identify any gaps in the overall experience and knowledge of the board as a whole and to assist appropriately in the future board selection process.
In early 2016, the committee considered the reappointment of Linda Adamany as a non-executive director for a second three-year term of office as her first three-year term will end at the 2016 AGM.
On the basis of her significant relevant international experience and her knowledge of the activities of the Group, the committee recommended that she should be reappointed for a second three-year term.
During 2015, the committee commenced a search for a new non-executive director to replace Simon Thompson.
The committee used the executive search firm, The Zygos Partnership Zygos, to assist with the process.
After due and careful consideration, due to his significant relevant experience, particularly in the oil & gas sector, a recommendation was made to the board to appoint Roy Franklin as a non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2016.
Zygos had previously worked with the company to assist with the search for a new Chairman in 2011 and with the process that led to Linda Adamanys appointment in 2012.
Other than this they have not undertaken any other work of any kind for the board or the Company.
Amec Foster Wheeler 54 Annual report and accounts 2015
