Board meetings The board holds a minimum of six regular meetings throughout In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain items the year, scheduled in accordance with an annual timetable.
are considered at every scheduled board meeting.
The Chief Additional board meetings and telephone conference calls are Executive provides a report on business performance, strategy held as required to deal with specific issues.
In 2015 there were execution and emerging issues and the Chief Financial Officer seven scheduled meetings and six unscheduled meetings.
updates the board on financial results and progress against the short-range plan.
Reports are also received on investor relations Directors are expected to attend all scheduled board and and market issues, HR and HSSEE matters.
In addition, the relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented from Chairman and the General Counsel and Company Secretary doing so by unavoidable prior business commitments or other provide an update on legislative, regulatory and governance valid reasons.
All directors are provided with full papers in matters and twice yearly the General Counsel and Company advance of each meeting.
Where a director is unable to attend Secretary provides updates on material claims and disputes.
a meeting, they are encouraged to discuss any issues arising with the Chairman or Chief Executive as appropriate.
Business unit management is regularly invited to present at board meetings and, led by the Group Presidents, provides Number of meetings attended deep dive reviews of each business unit.
In addition to standing items discussed at each meeting, the board considers a Scheduled Unscheduled regular schedule of financial and planning matters including John Connolly 7 7 6 6 the approval of financial results and dividends: special matters Samir Brikho 7 7 5 6 including the review and approval of strategy: the determination of major risks and risk appetite and transaction and competitor Ian McHoul 7 7 6 6 reviews.
The board receives an annual presentation from the Linda Adamany 7 7 5 6 Group Human Resources Director on senior management succession planning and management development.
In Neil Carson 7 7 3 6 2015, this took place in July and the board was also provided Colin Day 7 7 4 6 with updates on leadership development assurance and on Kent Masters from 13 February 2015 6 6 5 6 performance management.
The board has also identified a range of topic reviews that are addressed annually and these Stephanie Newby 7 7 4 6 include the strategies followed by the Groups functions eg Simon Thompson to 14 May 2015 3 3 1 1 Tax, Treasury and IT, as well as the board effectiveness and composition reviews.
Unscheduled meetings were convened throughout the year The board also holds a separate additional meeting each year to consider such matters as trading updates and director to perform a full strategic review of the Group.
As these were not scheduled, members were the timing of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the strategy not always able to attend but were provided with full packs event originally scheduled for October 2014 was held in of information and were invited to make comments.
April 2015 following completion of the acquisition.
The board At least one scheduled meeting each year takes place away undertook a further review of strategy in October 2015, from Amec Foster Wheelers head office in London.
This which considered amongst other things what improvements provides the board with an opportunity to understand more could be made to the Groups activities to better meet client about Amec Foster Wheelers business and to meet employees requirements in the current challenging market conditions.
The July 2015 board meeting took place in The Company Secretary is fundamental in ensuring the our offices in Houston, Texas, US, where the board met with efficiency and effectiveness of the board and its committees local management and also visited a client project site in the and is responsible for ensuring that the directors have timely Southern US.
access to full, accurate and relevant information and whatever The October 2015 board meeting and board strategy resources they need to undertake their duties.
Agendas and discussions took place at our offices in Reading, UK, which were supporting papers for board and committee meetings are particularly significant given the challenging market conditions circulated approximately one week prior to the meeting date to facing the sectors in which the Group operates.
allow sufficient time for review and enable informed debate and challenge at meetings.
Monthly interim reports are prepared, including a report from the Chief Executive and the business unit presidents, and these are circulated to the board if a meeting is not scheduled in the month.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 49 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
