Directors report Directors indemnity arrangements The Company maintains directors and officers liability Our directors present their annual report and insurance cover.
In addition, throughout the financial year the audited accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler and at the date of this report, qualifying third-party indemnity plc the Company and its subsidiaries together provisions within the meaning of Sections 232234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in place for all of the directors referred to as the Group for the year ended and the Company Secretary.
In addition, certain employees serving as directors of certain eligible subsidiaries at the Groups request have also received Achievements in 2015 and priorities for 2016 direct qualifying third-party indemnity provisions within the Disclosures relating to particulars of important events affecting meaning of Sections 232-234 of the Companies Act 2006 the Group that have occurred since the last financial year, an in relation to such directorships.
indication of likely future developments in the business of the Group and research and development activities can be found Directors interests in the strategic report on pages 1 to 37.
None of the directors is, or was, materially interested in any contract of significance to Amec Foster Wheelers businesses Dividends during, or at the end of, the financial year.
Details of directors The directors are recommending a final ordinary dividend in share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 14.2 pence shown in the remuneration report on page 72. per share.
This final dividend will be payable on 4 July 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 May Corporate governance statement 2016.
An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 The companys statement on corporate governance is set of 14.8 pence per share was paid on 4 January 2016.
Further out on pages 40 to 84 and is incorporated into this report information on the payment of dividends to shareholders and by reference.
the holders of American Depositary Shares ADSs can be Share capital found on pages 180 to 181.
The primary market for Amec Foster Wheelers ordinary shares Dividends paid during 2015 comprised an interim dividend is the London Stock Exchange, where we have a premium listing of 14.8 pence per share and a final dividend of 28.5 pence per and our shares are admitted to the main market.
Following the share, both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014. acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the companys shares were also successfully listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Changes to the board of directors and are traded in the form of American Depositary Shares Details of the directors of the company as at the date of ADS.
Further information on the companys ADS programme this report, together with brief biographical details and board can be found on pages 181 to 182. committee memberships, are set out on pages 41 to 43.
The issued share capital of the company as at 31 December Changes to the board since 1 January 2015: 2015 comprised a single class of ordinary share.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in full in the Samir Brikho Chief Executive Stepped down articles of association of the company and are described on Officer as Chief Executive pages 184 to 186.
In summary, each share carries the right to 17 January 2016 one vote at general meetings of the company and no right to Roy Franklin Non-executive Appointed a fixed income.
There are no restrictions on voting rights.
director 1 January 2016 Pursuant to the Squeeze-Out Merger initiated on Simon Thompson Non-executive Retired 8 December 2014, 4,255,970 shares were issued to Foster director 14 May 2015 Wheeler shareholders on 19 January 2015, to acquire the remaining issued and to be issued Foster Wheeler voting rights.
Kent Masters Non-executive Appointed Details of movements in the companys issued share capital director 13 February 2015 during the year are set out in note 22 on pages 146 to 148.
Effective immediately upon Mr Brikhos departure, Mr McHoul Authority was granted to the directors at the 2015 AGM to was appointed to the role of interim CEO, which he has agreed allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any to fulfil alongside his role as Chief Financial Officer until the security to shares up to a nominal amount of 64,158,715 search for a new Chief Executive is concluded.
Section 551 amount of which up to 9,721,017 could be allotted for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive offer Section 561 amount.
Amec Foster Wheeler 82 Annual report and accounts 2015 Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to Significant arrangements change of control extend this authority to the end of the AGM in 2017 or 1 June The following significant agreements contain provisions 2017, whichever is earlier.
The revised Section 551 amount entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other will be 64,345,628 and the revised Section 561 amount will rights in the event of a change of control of the company: be 19,498,675.
The directors have no present intention of Under the 1,700m threeand five-year term loan and five issuing any shares other than in respect of the exercise of year multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated share options.
No issue will be made that will effectively alter 1 March 2016 between, amongst others, the company and the control of the company without the prior approval of Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited as facility shareholders at a General Meeting.
agent, the company must promptly notify the facility agent if Since the completion of the 400m share buy-back programme it becomes aware of any change of control.
in February 2013, the company has not made any purchases Following such notice the lenders under the relevant agreement of its shares in the market.
At the 2015 AGM, authority was are required to negotiate with the company for a period of 30 granted to the directors to make market purchases of up days with a view to agreeing terms and conditions acceptable to 38,884,069 of the companys shares.
A resolution will be to the company and all the relevant lenders for continuing the proposed at the 2016 AGM to extend the authority of the relevant facilities.
If agreement is not reached by the relevant directors to make market purchases of up to 10% of the parties before the end of the 30-day period, if a lender so companys shares within prescribed limits.
requires, the relevant facility agent must, by notice of not For further information on the above resolutions relating to the less than 30 days to the company, cancel the commitments companys share capital, please refer to the notice of annual of that lender under the relevant agreement and declare the general meeting 2016, which includes explanatory notes on the participations of that lender in all outstanding loans under business to be transacted at the meeting.
that agreement together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under that agreement to be immediately Major interests in shares due and payable.
If the company is subject to a change of On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and control by one or more persons who are listed as having been Transparency Rules DTR 5 and other notifications received the subject of a sanctions designation, then the banks do not by Amec Foster Wheeler plc from shareholders, shareholdings need to fund any new debt drawdowns and their commitments of 3% or more of the voting rights of the company as at can be cancelled within a 14 day period.
31 December 2015 were as follows: The service contracts of a small number of senior executives previously employed by Foster Wheeler provide for enhanced Number % severance payments to be made in the event that their BlackRock, Inc 21,904,416 5.63 employment is terminated involuntarily and not for cause Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 20,253,855 5.28 within the first two years of the acquisition.
These provisions will cease to apply from November 2016.
Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 19,712,142 5.05 Depending on the nature of the transaction, entitlements The shareholding percentages reflect the companys issued under the companys share plans may be triggered by a share capital at the time of the notification.
There were no other change of control.
Further detail can be found in the directors notifications received under DTR 5 from the above shareholders remuneration report.
In addition, a small number of contracts and agreements There are no shareholdings that carry special rights relating entered into by group companies in the ordinary course of to control of the company.
business contain provisions under which the approval of the counterparty would be required in respect of a change of Financial instruments control.
In the absence of such approval the contracts could be Disclosures relating to the groups use of financial instruments terminated by the counterparties.
Such contracts are however can be found in note 19 on pages 136 to 141 and are not considered to be material with respect to the results of the incorporated into this report by reference.
Branches A change of control occurs if any person or group of persons As a global group, our interests and activities are held or acting in concert gains control of the company.
operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates established in, and subject to the laws and regulations of, numerous different jurisdictions.
Details of the companys related undertakings can be found on pages 194 to 201.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 83 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Directors report continued Going concern Employees Our employees embody our knowledge, brand and reputation The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the group has adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future and it is through their activities, day by day, that we deliver on our business objectives and commitments to shareholders, and, therefore, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further details of this clients and the wider community.
Information on employee development and training: how we engage with our employees review can be found on page 37. to ensure they understand the direction in which the company Viability statement is going and are committed to Amec Foster Wheelers values: In accordance with the new requirement in the 2014 UK the actions taken to share knowledge with our employees and Corporate Governance Code, the directors first viability keep them informed of developments: how we assess and statement and accompanying basis of assessment can be act on employee opinion and encourage involvement in the found on page 21. companys performance: and our commitment to cultural Auditor diversity and equal opportunities can be found on page 14 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
As can be seen in our A resolution will be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the company.
Code of Business Conduct, Amec Foster Wheeler is committed to providing a workplace which offers equal opportunity for Disclosure of information to auditor promotion and advancement.
As part of the integration of the The directors who held office at the date of approval of this two AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses, a revised Code of directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Business Conduct was implemented during the year that meets there is no relevant audit information of which the companys the needs of the wider Group.
auditor is unaware: and the directors have taken all the steps As part of the companys equal opportunities policy, procedures that they ought to have taken as directors to make themselves are in place that are designed to provide for full and fair aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that consideration and selection of disabled applicants, to ensure the companys auditor is aware of that information.
they are properly trained to perform safely and effectively and The above statement is made in accordance with Section 418 to provide career opportunities that allow them to fulfil their of the Companies Act 2006. potential.
Where an employee becomes disabled in the course of their employment, Amec Foster Wheeler will actively seek Responsibility statements to retain them wherever possible by making adjustments to The statement of directors responsibilities, including the fair, their work content and environment or by retraining them balanced and understandable statement, in respect of the to undertake new roles.
annual report and accounts can be found on page 85.
The statement by the Companys auditor relating to their reporting Sustainability responsibilities can be found on pages 92 and 93.
Summary details about our commitment to sustainability and its importance to our day-to-day activities are set out On behalf of the board specifically on page 22 and in general throughout our strategic report.
Further detail is available in our sustainability report and on our website.
Greenhouse gas emissions Alison Yapp Disclosures relating to the groups greenhouse gas emissions, General Counsel and Company Secretary as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 10 March 2016 strategic report and directors report Regulations 2013, can be found in the strategic report on page 22.
Political donations During 2015, Amec Foster Wheeler made no political donations in the UK or European Union, including donations as defined for the purposes of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Amec Foster Wheeler Americas Limited, a subsidiary of the company in Canada, made contributions to non-EU political parties in Canada totalling C$1,950 995.
Amec Foster Wheeler 84 Annual report and accounts 2015
