Accountability continued Audit committee As management continued throughout 2015 with the integration process, across numerous geographies, The main objectives of the audit committee the committee continued its vital role of scrutinising the are to provide independent scrutiny of integrity and relevance of the Groups financial reporting, the companys financial and non-financial the appropriateness and quality of the internal control environment and the continued suitability of the Groups performance, the adequacy of the risk system of risk management.
In addition, the committee management framework and internal controls, examined material projects, focusing on the key features, and the performance of both the external and risks and opportunities these present and paid particular attention to contract provisioning and quality of earnings.
This is of particular Your committee has also been engaged with managements importance given the added responsibilities process for meeting the new UK corporate governance of conforming to the SOX requirements.
requirement of providing a viability statement, which is now a feature of this years annual report.
The wide diversity of experience and knowledge of the committee members helps to achieve As reported to you last year, management detected a fraud in one of its overseas operations during the latter part of 2014. these objectives, and constructive challenge The fraud was not material at the group level, although it was and guidance continue to be provided to significant at the local entity level.
I can now confirm that a the leadership team.
criminal case against two former employees is presently before the courts, the outcome of which is yet to be determined.
Dear Shareholder The committee continued to oversee the internal and external Your audit committee had another demanding year during audit activities.
Given the increased size and complexity of which management implemented its integration plans and the combined businesses, management and the committee a new operating model for the combined businesses of AMEC endorsed the recommendation to increase the size of the and Foster Wheeler.
Bringing two companies together, each internal audit team to strengthen the available resources with a diverse range of policies, procedures, computer systems for the future.
and processes, was always going to be challenging, particularly Our goal continues to be one of being proactive and to provide as each had its own operating model that reflected its constructive challenge over the information we receive.
Fittingly, your committee Throughout the year the committee has received timely and and the board focused strongly on the quality of the revised quality information from management and from the internal policies, procedures, systems and internal controls being and external auditors.
Their reports have been relevant, implemented by management to successfully manage the succinct, and clear, which has enabled your committee new company.
to discharge its duties effectively.
The committee also took on additional responsibilities during the year: in particular, overseeing the exacting compliance effort that management had to undertake to implement the requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX.
An in-house compliance team, supported comprehensively by Colin Day external SOX specialists, was established by management.
The Chairman of the audit committee Chief Compliance Officer reported directly to the committee at 10 March 2016 each of its meetings, providing detailed status reports on the project and its achievements.
As committee chairman, I also met separately on a regular basis with the Chief Compliance Officer and the external SOX specialists, to be briefed on progress.
As you might expect, both the internal and external auditors were also involved with the SOX process throughout the year.
Amec Foster Wheeler 58 Annual report and accounts 2015 Members Key responsibilities X The committee meets at least three times each year and the Reviewing the annual and half-yearly financial statements quorum for the committee is two members.
with particular focus on key accounting and audit judgement and making recommendations to the board for their approval.
Membership and attendance of the audit committee X up to 31 December 2015 Monitoring the clarity of disclosures, the going concern assumptions, the viability statement and compliance with IFRS.
Scheduled Unscheduled X Reviewing and monitoring the internal controls and risk Colin Day Chairman 3 3 1 1 management systems, in particular internal controls over Linda Adamany 3 3 0 1 financial reporting.
Neil Carson 3 3 1 1 X Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor including the approval of the engagement letter, letter of Simon Thompson up to 14 May 2015 0 1 1 1 representation and statutory audit fees, with particular focus Stephanie Newby 3 3 0 1 on independence and rotation in accordance with UK and US rules or requirements.
There were three scheduled audit committee meetings in X Promoting an effective internal audit function.
The unscheduled meeting was arranged at very short notice and two members had X Overseeing the Companys compliance with the London prior commitments.
and New York stock exchanges, FCA and SEC requirements.
Colin Day has relevant and recent experience in auditing X Reviewing arrangements whereby staff may raise concerns and accounting and the board considers that he has about any suspected or known improprieties and ensuring sufficient financial experience and qualifications to satisfy that such matters are investigated and appropriate the criteria under US rules for an audit committee financial actions taken.
Biographies of all committee members can be found X Monitoring and reviewing UK corporate governance on pages 41 to 43. and US SOX compliance.
The membership of the committee currently comprises X Receiving the reports of the disclosure committee.
Colin Day Chairman, Linda Adamany, Neil Carson and Stephanie Newby.
Activities of the committee Training provided to the committee in the year included an The Company Chairman, the executive directors, the General update by the Chief Compliance Officer on SOX requirements Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Financial and information from Ernst & Young LLP EY on risk Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, the Group Commercial management, internal control, going concern requirements Director, the Chief Compliance Officer and representatives and the viability statement.
of the external auditor also attended meetings throughout the year.
In 2015, as part of the external review of board effectiveness, respondents were asked about the perceived performance During 2015, the committee met separately with the external of the audit committee.
This was very highly rated overall.
auditor, the Head of Internal Audit and the CFO, in each case One area identified for improvement was in relation to the without others being present.
balance of work undertaken between the Chairman and the During the year the committees terms of reference were committee members, to ensure collective responsibility of the reviewed and updated to reflect additional committee activities of the committee.
Other areas identified included a requirements relating to the appropriateness of the going need for greater detail on revenue recognition decisions and concern assumptions, the viability statement, internal controls continued vigilance on SOX requirements.
over financial reporting, the disclosure committee and SOX In preparation for each meeting, the CFO prepares an extensive requirements.
These are available to view at amecfw.
com report covering all material financial, tax and treasury matters.
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, a disclosure Particular areas of focus in 2015 included: committee was established in November 2014.
This is a X consideration of revenue recognition, which is by necessity management committee that reports to the audit committee based on management estimates and assumptions, and assists the committee with regard to verifying the particularly with regard to timing and consideration of the information that is required to be disclosed in the companys Groups policy for aged work in progress and receivables.
material public disclosures and in its periodic reports.
In conjunction with the external auditor, these judgements This ensures that such disclosures are in compliance with were challenged, especially with regard to end-life all relevant laws, rules and regulations, including the UK forecast estimates Listing Authority, the London Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange and the US Securities and Exchange X with regard to the provisions and estimates including Commission SEC.
litigation within the accounts, the committee, in conjunction with the external auditor, spent time focusing on these areas and on satisfying itself as to their appropriateness, particularly for legacy liabilities.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 59 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Accountability continued Audit committee continued X contract risks and material contracts those above 10m In its reviews of the full and half-year results, particular in contract value showing a deteriorating position over emphasis was placed on contractual issues where the time, including the monitoring of managements early reported financial position was analysed and discussed warning system to increase visibility of underperforming in the CFOs report and the findings validated by means material contracts of in-depth questioning.
X the Foster Wheeler allocation of goodwill and impairment At the request of the board, the committee also reviewed and testing arising from the acquisition, in respect of which provided advice on whether the annual report and accounts, the committee continued to challenge and stress test the when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, assumptions that were being made in the process to enable the Companys shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
X reviews of the performance of the GPG business and the challenging of the inputs into the impairment testing In coming to its view that it was satisfied with the overall calculations where the deteriorating performance has fairness, balance and clarity of the document, the committee resulted in a significant impairment of 308m took into account: X X the classification of exceptional items, where costs, excluding its own knowledge of the group, and its strategy and intangible amortisation and impairment, of 114m have been performance in the year charged in the year, principally due to restructuring and X the comprehensive guidance provided to all contributors integration costs to the annual report and accounts X the Foster Wheeler purchase price allocation exercise, X a thorough internal verification of the factual content in respect of which the committee undertook a thorough within the document review of the process and challenged the appropriateness and the judgements made on the reduction in the net X the comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels assets acquired of around US$245m and the corresponding in the group to ensure consistency and overall balance increase in goodwill X a detailed review by senior management X adequacy of legacy liabilities, including the accounting Internal controls and risk management for asbestos and environmental liabilities The committee reviews the processes by which the X accounting for taxation including the recognition Companys control environment is evaluated.
A control risk of deferred tax and assets relating to research and self-assessment is undertaken every year, with comprehensive development government credits and monitoring the integrity checks, and the exercise in 2015 again identified no outcome of recent EU cases on tax rulings and the significant areas of concern.
The Groups senior management assessment of disclosing this as a contingent liability is formally required to confirm compliance within their businesses with the Groups Code of Business Conduct, its X the assessment of the basis of the Groups going concern policies and procedures and any areas of concern need to be assumptions with particular emphasis on the refinancing fully explained and addressed.
A revised Code of Business process and the assessment of the Groups viability Conduct was introduced in 2015. statement in accordance with the change to the UK Corporate Governance Code The Head of Internal Audit reports to the committee on any alleged or suspected wrongdoings reported through the X the ongoing quality and acceptability of the Groups independently operated helplines or otherwise.
All such accounting policies, procedures, systems and incidents in the year were investigated and did not reveal any internal controls significant internal control failures or have a material financial X SOX programme oversight and the establishment of risk impact at group level although improvement in oversight and control matrices and the identification of key controls to and in the application of existing controls have been put in meet the SOX control objectives.
This was the first year that place following a fraud identified in Australia, see note 5 attestation has been required on the Groups internal control on page 116. environment and the committee was pleased to note that In a few instances, disciplinary action was taken against no material weaknesses had been identified employees, which led to dismissal where warranted.
X a review of the audit procedures required in order to meet The committees primary responsibilities in relation to risk the requirements of the SEC and Public Company Accounting management are in ensuring that robust processes are in place Oversight Board PCAOB in the US for managing risk throughout the Group.
The acquisition of X as part of the CFOs report, the committee received details of Foster Wheeler was completed in the fourth quarter of 2014 all breaches of treasury policy.
This enabled the committee to and the control framework was reviewed and the risk and see how relatively minor issues are identified and addressed control systems were integrated with those of the wider group.
to ensure they do not become more significant matters.
The groups principal business and strategic risks are shown In the year, minor breaches were identified in relation to bank in the strategic report on pages 19 to 21 and the approach to counterparty limits, but none was considered to be material managing risk is shown in more detail on pages 18 and 57.
Amec Foster Wheeler 60 Annual report and accounts 2015 Internal audit The audit differences and quality of earnings schedule for the In 2015, the committee continued to monitor and review the year ended 2015 was presented by EY at the February 2016 operation of the internal audit function, receiving a full report meeting.
The value of unadjusted differences and the quality at each meeting from the Head of Internal Audit.
The Head of of earnings high-level review of the impact of items that could Internal Audit formally reports to the committee chairman.
be considered non-recurring in nature were discussed in detail.
The audit differences were not considered to be material and The findings of each internal audit review are summarised the quality of earnings was considered appropriate overall.
and the committee focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory findings and on the action plans in place to address them.
On behalf of the committee, the Head of Internal Audit undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Particular areas of focus during 2015 included a number of identified frauds, and the application of the agents sponsors external auditor.
The views of senior members of the finance teams throughout the Group are sought, as well as qualitative process, particularly within the former Foster Wheeler businesses.
Concerns were also raised about an increase in feedback.
Responses are measured and directly compared with previous surveys, so that progress can be monitored.
the number of control-related issues and the reasons for this.
A review of the staffing levels of the internal audit function The external auditor effectiveness review for 2015 will be was undertaken and a recommendation was made by undertaken after the year-end process has been completed the committee to increase the number of staff to meet and the results will be presented to the committee in the increased workload requirements.
The results of the review will be reported by the board.
External audit EY were appointed as Amec Foster Wheelers external auditor in 2010, following a formal tender process.
As the audit partner During 2015, the committee continued to oversee the relationship with the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY.
responsible for the Group audit had been in place for five years, a new audit partner Colin Brown was appointed for the The committee reviews both the procedure for the engagement of the external auditor and the procedure for the appointment 2015 audit.
The committee takes account of and endorses the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code with of the external auditor every year.
In 2015 both procedures met both UK and US requirements.
regard to the appointment of the external auditor, which means that the external audit contract will be put out to tender at the Each year the relevant audit risks are assessed and EYs latest by 2020, subject to any further regulatory change.
The views are presented to the committee.
During the year, the committee also considers that the process complies with the significant risks identified by EY were appropriateness of provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority CMA revenue recognition on contracts, adequacy of contractOrder for UK audit market published on 26 September 2014. related provisions and legacy liabilities including asbestos and environmental, purchase price allocation adjustments relating Amec Foster Wheeler has formal procedures relating to its to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, goodwill impairment, relationship with the external auditor including for the provision impact of tax planning, recognition of deferred tax assets and of non-audit services, to ensure that such work does not impair R&D tax credits and risk of fraud and management override.
the external auditors objectivity and independence.
This Other risk areas included appropriate disclosure and treatment procedure clearly outlines the category of work the external of exceptional items, auditor is permitted to carry out and the rules governing what is not permitted.
The procedure follows the guidelines Throughout the year and in conjunction with EY, the committee and requirements set out by the Institute of Chartered challenged management and assured itself that the risks Accountants in England and Wales and has been amended were being addressed and that reporting on the matters to take account of the requirements of SOX and the PCAOB.
Examples of these challenges included the The committee now delegates authority to the Chairman of judgements taken on a waste energy project in Western the audit committee to pre-approve all non-prohibited services Europe, the assessment of Mount Polley as a contingent undertaken by the external auditor.
In addition, all non-audit liability, accounting for a UK fuel storage contract and, an oil services performed by the external auditor will be disclosed and gas related project in South America.
Other challenges to investors in the companys periodic reports.
included the judgements taken in the Groups goodwill testing, issues with impairment in particular GPG, purchase price The process is continually monitored by the Head of Internal Audit and details of all other services performed allocation including the accounting recorded in respect of a contract in the Southern US and the appropriateness of the are formally presented to the audit committee twice a year.
It is the responsibility of the audit committee to monitor accounting for the Groups asbestos liability of 414m.
The committee also discussed and debated the appropriateness the overall level of non-audit fees relative to audit fees from an independence point of view and to confirm that auditor of the Groups effective tax rate and recognition of deferred tax.
If there are any concerns about this, for the avoidance of doubt, the undertaking of such work would not be permitted.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 61 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Accountability continued Audit committee continued Fees payable by the Group to the Companys statutory auditor, EY, and its associates were as follows: 2015 2014 m m Audit fees: Audit of the Companys accounts 4.1 3.9 Audit of the accounts of the Companys subsidiaries 1.4 1.5 5.5 5.4 Tax fees: Tax compliance services 0.9 0.4 Tax advisory services 0.9 0.4 All other fees: Corporate finance transactions 0.9 6.4 Other non-audit services 0.2 0.1 1.1 6.5 7.5 12.3 Fees for the audit of the Companys accounts relate to the audit of the parent companys accounts and the consolidated financial statements.
All EYs fees for non-audit work in 2015 were approved in accordance with the Companys policy covering non-audit services.
As a result of the application of this policy and additional discussions with them, the directors do not believe that EYs independence has been compromised because of this additional work on behalf of the Company.
The level of non-audit fee awarded to EY in 2014 was considerably higher than would normally be the case, as shown in the table above as a result of work undertaken on the Foster Wheeler acquisition.
During 2014, EY was paid non-audit fees of 2.7m by Foster Wheeler prior to the acquisition date.
Amec Foster Wheeler 62 Annual report and accounts 2015
