Leadership and effectiveness Our board of directors Our board members are selected to ensure and maintain an effective balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the areas in which Amec Foster Wheeler operates and in the duties and responsibilities associated with being a director of a listed company.
John Connolly Chairman of the board, Chairman of the nominations committee and a member of the remuneration committee A chartered accountant, John spent his career until May 2011 with global professional services firm Deloitte.
John joined the firm in 1980, serving in various roles of increasing responsibility.
During his time at Deloitte, he held a wide range of senior leadership positions in the United Kingdom and internationally.
He was Global Chairman between 2007 and 2011 and Global Managing Director from 2003 to 2007.
He was Senior Partner and CEO of the UK Partnership from 1999 until his retirement from the Partnership in 2011.
John is chairman of G4S plc and also of a number of private companies.
Beyond commercial business roles, John is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity and a member of the CBI Presidents Advisory Council.
Term of office John was appointed as non-executive Chairman on 1 June 2011 and was considered to be independent on appointment in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
His term of office was extended in March 2015 for a second three-year term to the date of the 2018 AGM.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 41 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Leadership and effectiveness continued Our board of directors continued Ian McHoul Linda Adamany Neil Carson Colin Day Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO Non-executive Director, Chairman Senior Independent Director, Non-executive Director, Chairman Ian qualified as a Chartered of the health, safety, security, Chairman of the remuneration of the audit committee and a Accountant with KPMG in 1984. environmental and ethics HSSEE committee and a member of member of the remuneration and His early career was spent in the committee and a member of the the audit and health, safety, nominations committees brewing industry.
Between 1985 and audit, remuneration and nominations security, environmental and ethics Colin has more than 25 years of 1995 he held various positions with committees HSSEE committees experience of blue chip companies the Fosters Brewing Group, including Linda has over 40 years business Neil was Chief Executive of Johnson including Aegis Group Plc, ABB General Manager, Strategy.
He was experience, with 27 in the Matthey Plc, the FTSE 100 speciality Group, fide La Rue Group Plc and Finance & Strategy Director of the international energy sector.
Between chemical company, from 2004 to British Gas.
Colin was appointed Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited 1980 and 2007 Linda held a number June 2014 and stepped down as a Chief Executive Officer of Essentra from 1995 to 1998 and then served at of executive positions at BP plc in member of the board in September plc formerly Filtrona plc on Scottish & Newcastle plc from 1998 the UK and US.
He joined the company in 1980 1 April 2011, prior to which he was to 2008, first as Finance Director she held various executive roles in after completing an engineering Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt of Scottish Courage and later as refining and marketing, exploration degree and held a number of senior Benckiser Group plc from 2000 to Group Finance Director of Scottish and production and petrochemicals, management positions in both the 2011.
Between 1995 and 2000, he & Newcastle plc.
Ian holds a BSc in including Chief Executive of BP UK and US, including Managing served as Group Finance Director Mathematics from the University Shipping and Group Vice President Director of Catalysts & Chemicals of Aegis Group plc.
and Commercial Director, BP from 1999 to 2004 and Division years in a number of divisional Refining & Marketing.
Director of Catalytic Systems from finance director positions with ABB Term of office 1997 to 1999.
Group and served as Group Finance Ian was appointed interim CEO on In March 2013, Linda was appointed Director of ABB Kent Instrumentation 17 January 2016 and Chief Financial a non-executive director of Coeur In July 2014, Neil became a and ABB Kent plc from 1988 to Officer on 8 September 2008 and Mining, Inc. a US-based publicly non-executive director of PayPoint 1994.
Colin started his career in 1973 has no fixed term of office.
His quoted primary silver producer, plc, where he also serves as as a trainee accountant at Kodak.
service contract is terminable on six where she serves as chairman of the chairman of the remuneration He is a Fellow of the Association of and twelve months notice by him audit committee and is a member committee and senior independent Chartered Certified Accountants and and the Company respectively.
of the environmental, health, director.
In May 2015, Neil joined holds an MBA from Cranfield School safety and social responsibility the board of TT Electronics plc as External appointments of Management, UK.
In March 2014, Linda was Chairman.
He is currently Honorary Ian has been a non-executive director appointed to the board of directors President of the Society for Chemical Colin has been a director of of Britvic plc since March 2014 and of Leucadia National Corporation, Industry SCI and co-chair of the FM Global since January 2014 and was a non-executive director of a US-based, NYSE-listed, diversified Chemistry Growth Partnership, was appointed as a non-executive Premier Foods plc from July 2004 holding company engaged through which is working with the director and chairman of the audit to April 2013. its consolidated subsidiaries in government to stimulate growth in committee of Meggit plc on 1 a variety of businesses, where the industry in the United Kingdom.
He was previously a she is a member of the audit and Neil was previously a founding non-executive director of WPP plc the nominating and corporate member of the Prince of Wales from 2005 to June 2015.
From 2006 Corporate Leaders Group on Climate appointed to the FRC Audit Advisory to 2012, prior to joining Amec Foster Change.
Neil received an engineering Group on 3 July 2014.
Wheeler, Linda was a non-executive degree from Lanchester Polytechnic Term of office director of National Grid plc and a now Coventry University and has Colin was appointed a non-executive member of their audit, nominations been awarded an Honorary Doctor of director on 14 October 2010.
His term and safety, environment and health Business Administration from Anglia of office was extended in February committees.
Linda is a qualified Ruskin University.
2014 for a second three-year term accountant CPA with a BSc in Term of office to the date of the 2017 AGM.
Business Administration from Neil was appointed a non-executive John Carroll University, Ohio, and director on 31 August 2010.
His term has also undertaken post-graduate, of office was extended in February non-degree executive programmes 2014 for a second three-year term at Harvard, Cambridge and to the date of the 2017 AGM.
Term of office Linda was appointed a non-executive director on 1 October 2012.
In January 2016, her term of office was extended for a second three-year term to the date of the 2019 AGM.
Amec Foster Wheeler 42 Annual report and accounts 2015 Roy A Franklin Kent Masters Stephanie Newby We will continue to seek to Non-executive Director and member Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director, member build upon and complement of the nominations committee member of the health, safety, of the audit and health, safety, the boards existing skills Roy has more than 40 years security, environmental and ethics security, environmental and ethics set, including a focus on experience as an executive in the committee HSSEE HSSEE committees increased diversity, whether oil & gas industry.
He spent 18 years Kent was the Chief Executive Officer Stephanie is the Chief Executive this is through gender, at BP, latterly as Head of M&A, of Foster Wheeler AG from 2011 until Officer of Crimson Hexagon, a big BP Exploration, after which he was the completion of the acquisition data social analytics company.
Prior race, nationality or general Group MD of Clyde Petroleum and by AMEC in November 2014.
Prior to Crimson Hexagon she founded background.
The review of the then CEO of Paladin Resources until to joining Foster Wheeler, he served Golden Seeds in 2004, an investment effectiveness of the board in its acquisition by Talisman Energy as a member of the Executive Board company that provides investment 2014 identified the need for in 2005.
Since then Roy has served of Linde AG, a world leading gases capital to early-stage, high-growth additional expertise in oil & on a number of international energy and engineering company, from companies.
Previously, she spent gas markets and this led to boards in non-executive roles.
At Linde, Kent had 20 years working in the financial responsibility for the Americas, services industry in Sydney, London Roy Franklins appointment Roy is currently chairman of Keller Africa, the South Pacific, the global and New York, with the majority of at the beginning of 2016.
Group plc, deputy chairman of Statoil business unit Healthcare, and her career spent with J. P. Morgan, ASA and a non-executive director the business area Merchant and where she headed several global of Santos Ltd.
He is also currently Packaged Gases.
He was employed businesses serving as Global Head Independence of non-executive chairman of privately-owned by BOC Group plc from 1984 until the of Futures and Options, Head of directors Cuadrilla Resources Holdings Ltd, acquisition of BOC by Linde in 2006. International Private Banking, Chief The board considers that, with and a member of the advisory board Kent served in roles of increasing Operating Officer of Global Equities the exception of Kent Masters, of Kerogen Capital LLC.
responsibility at BOC, including and Head of eCommerce.
whose previous employment by Term of office as Chief Executive, Industrial and Foster Wheeler precludes him from Appointed in 2004, Stephanie Roy was appointed a non-executive Special Products, from 2005 to meeting the required independence was a member of the Foster Wheeler director on 1 January 2016 for an 2006, and as President, Process Gas criteria, the non-executive AG board until the completion of initial term of three years, which will Solutions-Americas from 2002 to directors are independent and the acquisition by AMEC, serving end at the 2019 AGM.
He also served on the board of free from any relationships or on the audit and governance and directors of BOC from 2005 to 2006. circumstances that could affect In accordance with the Companys nominating committees.
She also their independent judgement.
articles of association, Roy will retire Kent served as the non-executive previously served as a non-executive from office at the forthcoming AGM chairman of African Oxygen Limited director and member of the audit and and offer himself for election.
Kent joined the compensation and HR committees board of Albemarle in January 2015 of RiskMetrics Group, Inc. following its acquisition of Rockwood Term of office Holdings, Inc. where he had served Stephanie was appointed a nonas a director since 2007.
Kent is executive director on 13 November a member of the compensation 2014 for an initial term of three years, committee at Albemarle and served which will end at the 2018 AGM.
on the audit and compensation committees at Rockwood.
Term of office Kent was appointed a non-executive director on 13 February 2015 for an initial term of three years, which will end at the 2018 AGM.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 43 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
