Leadership and effectiveness continued Management committees These are chaired by executive directors or other senior individuals and members are drawn from senior management The board has also created a number of within the Group.
The minutes of each of these meetings are management committees and groups that deal circulated to each board meeting.
The terms of reference of all generally with more operational matters.
these committees have been reviewed and updated following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Corporate transactions committee Pensions and retirement benefits committee 1 Members Members Chief Executive chairman : Chief Financial Officer: General Counsel Chief Financial Officer chairman : Group Human Resources Director: and Company Secretary: Head of Mergers and Acquisitions.
Head of Pensions: General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Responsibilities Responsibilities The corporate transactions committee considers mergers, acquisitions The pensions and retirement benefits committee reviews and recommends and disposals and approves transactions where the consideration or the establishment of any new or replacement pension arrangements, assumption of liabilities, as appropriate, is 5m or less, and above this any material amendments to existing pension schemes, and the level it submits recommendations to the board for approval.
In addition discontinuance, winding up or merger of any existing arrangement.
it determines transaction guidelines that are in line with Group policies It also agrees with the trustees of those pension arrangements appropriate and procedures.
funding plans to secure the benefits promised.
Disclosure committee Risk committee 1 Members Members Group Financial Controller chairman : General Counsel and Company Chief Executive chairman : Chief Financial Officer: General Counsel Secretary: Head of Risk Management and Insurance: Chief Corporate and Company Secretary: Group Commercial Director: Head of Risk Compliance Officer: Head of Internal Audit: Director of Tax and Treasury: Management and Insurance: Group Project Delivery Director.
Group Corporate Affairs Director: Head of Investor Relations.
Responsibilities Responsibilities The risk committee performs an integral role in the governance of risk The disclosure committee assists the audit committee with regard to within Amec Foster Wheeler by providing advice and assistance to the board verifying the information that is required to be disclosed in the companys enabling it to fulfil its responsibilities in determining the risk appetite of the material public disclosures and in its periodic reports.
This is intended Group and the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control to ensure such disclosures are in compliance with all relevant laws, rules systems that support it.
It also reviews the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk and regulations, including the UK Listing Authority, the London Stock register and the potential impact of any issues on the risk appetite and the Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange and the US Securities and risk profile of the Group.
It reports on key risk issues such as new business Exchange Commission.
and geographical locations and also makes recommendations on the insurance programme for the Group.
Group project review meetings Share allotment committee Attended by: Members Group Leadership Team, Commercial Director.
Any two directors or a director and the General Counsel and Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary the chairman to be appointed Responsibilities from those directors present.
The group project review meetings evaluate project execution and financial performance on higher risk, higher value projects that could have a material Responsibilities effect on overall group performance.
The share allotment committee approves the allotment of new shares or the issue of existing shares held in treasury following the exercise of options under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
HSSE review committee Tender review committee 1 Members Members Chief Executive chairman : Group Human Resources Director: General Chief Executive chairman : Chief Financial Officer: General Counsel Counsel and Company Secretary.
and Company Secretary: Head of Risk Management and Insurance: Group Commercial Director: Group Project Delivery Director.
Responsibilities The HSSE review committees key responsibility is to provide effective Responsibilities oversight of the Companys performance and management of HSSE The tender review committee primarily reviews and approves proposed issues across the group.
This includes the evaluation of the effectiveness tender submissions for contracts to be undertaken by the business of the Groups policies and management systems in respect of managing units that are outside the delegated authority of the Group Presidents.
health, safety, security and environmental risk in both current and future Higher risk contracts with an estimated revenue in excess of US$750m operations associated with the Companys growth strategy.
also require the approval of the board.
1 Whilst the search for a new Chief Executive is undertaken, the terms of reference of the committee have been amended to allow Mr McHoul to act as chair in his capacity as interim CEO.
In addition, the Group Financial Controller has been appointed as a member of the committee in lieu of the Chief Financial Officer.
Amec Foster Wheeler 56 Annual report and accounts 2015
