Leadership and effectiveness continued Evaluation The board was seen to use its time effectively although it was In line with the recommendations of the Code, each year a formal performance evaluation review is undertaken of the suggested that more time might be spent on market dynamics, the structure by which clients are supported, major projects, board, its committees and the directors individually.
In 2015, the performance evaluation was externally facilitated by technology and succession planning considerations.
Lintstock have been The Companys strategy was considered to be clear with broad the provider of the Companys insider list management consensus as to the principal strategic issues and the April software since 2011 but other than this, and the performance 2015 strategy review day was highly rated.
evaluation, have not undertaken any other work of any kind for The risk appetite was considered to be clear and it was felt that the board or the Company.
risk management was a strength and had improved.
This year, the review process involved both one-to-one interviews and the completion by each director of an in-depth A number of areas for improvement were identified and these survey designed to establish their perceptions in areas such will continue to be addressed over the coming year as part as the current composition and expertise of the board: board of the board plan and include continued focus on succession dynamics and the interaction between board members and planning, management of human resources, and on the the board and senior management: the boards management strategic objectives of the Group in the context of the market of time and the scope of board agendas: the quality of dynamics and challenges facing the sector.
both internal and external support to the board including In addition, and as required by the Code, during the year information presented at meetings and updates on major the Senior Independent Director, having taken the views developments between meetings: and the boards role in setting of the non-executive and the executive directors, reviewed strategy and strategic oversight.
Opinions were also sought the performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent on the effectiveness of the April 2015 board strategy event Director met with the Chairman in December 2015 to review his which both the board and Group Leadership Team attended, performance during 2015.
The Chief Executive conducts annual the appropriateness of the boards risk appetite and approach performance development reviews with his direct reports.
to risk management and internal controls, and succession planning and human resource management.
In 2016, the board performance evaluation review will again be externally facilitated by Lintstock.
Lintstocks report on the findings of this survey of board effectiveness was tabled for discussion at the boards December 2015 meeting.
In summary, the results were very positive and engagement and interaction amongst board members continue to be very strong.
The size of the board was considered appropriate and, with regard to composition, the appointment of Roy Franklin as a non-executive director was identified as a valuable addition of oil & gas sector experience.
The board was seen to have appropriate knowledge of the markets in which the company operates and a good understanding of shareholders and stakeholders views.
There was considered to be good support and challenge provided to management.
The frequency and quality of management presentations were highly rated.
Amec Foster Wheeler 52 Annual report and accounts 2015
