Our Group Leadership Team Distinct from the executive director shown on page 42, the Group Leadership Team comprises the following senior operational and functional management: Simon Naylor Gary Nedelka Jonathan Nield John Pearson Group President, Americas Group President, Global Power Group Group Project Delivery Director Group President, Northern Europe & Simon was appointed Group GPG Jon was appointed Group Project CIS NECIS President, Americas in October Gary was appointed Group Delivery Director on 13 November Before taking the role of Group 2012.
Prior to that Simon had President, Global Power Group on 2014, immediately prior to which President, Northern Europe & CIS been President Natural Resources, 1 January 2015, having served as he served as Vice President, Project on 1 January 2015, John was Group Americas since 2007, where he Chief Executive Officer of Foster Risk Management of Foster Wheeler President of Europe and, prior to led the growth and successful Wheelers Global Power Group a position he held since May 2011. that, he was Managing Director of development of the Companys since January 2009.
Prior to this, Previously, he was a director of the oil & gas business in Europe and leading positions in the core he served as President and Chief Foster Wheeler Energy Limited and West Africa.
He joined the Company market sectors of mining, oil & gas Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler he has served in various executive in 1990 and has worked in a variety and oil sands.
In his 23 years with North America Corp. an indirect, positions with that company.
He of roles in engineering and project the company, Simon has worked wholly-owned subsidiary within was a member of the Foster Wheeler management.
In the past, John has across the project lifecycle, in the Global Power Group.
Previously team for more than 25 years.
led the Companys oil & gas projects consulting, engineering and project he was President and General and asset support business streams Jon has a BSc in Mechanical management.
A natural resources Manager of operating companies globally.
Prior to joining the business, Engineering from Newcastle professional, his experience in China and he held a variety of John worked for Chevron and has University, an MSc in Project includes project development, positions of increasing responsibility worked around the world, having Management from Cranfield School asset support, strategy, customer in commercial operations and spent time based in Aberdeen, of Management.
He currently serves relationship management and engineering management.
He joined San Francisco, Baku and London.
as a director of the Engineering & operations leadership.
Foster Wheeler in 1979 and is a John is currently contractor co-chair Construction Risk Institute.
member of the American Society of Oil & Gas UK and sits as a member Simon has an MBA from Cranfield of Mechanical Engineers.
of MER UK, the Fiscal Forum and the School of Management and a BSc OGA stakeholder board.
from University College London Gary holds a BSc in Mechanical in Chemical Engineering.
Engineering from Clarkson College John holds a BSc Honours of Technology.
Engineering degree from Aberdeen University.
Roberto Penno Jeff Reilly Will Serle Alison Yapp Group President, Asia, Middle Group President, Strategy & Group Human Resources Director General Counsel and East, Africa and Southern Europe Business Development Will was appointed Group Human Company Secretary AMEASE Jeff has 30 years industry experience Resources Director on 1 May 2011, Alison was appointed General Roberto was appointed Group and was appointed Group President, having previously held the position Counsel and Company Secretary President, AMEASE on 1 January Strategy & Business Development on of Human Resources Operations on 1 December 2012.
Immediately 2015, immediately prior to which he 28 April 2014.
He started his career Director since 2009.
Will is also prior to joining the Company she was was CEO of Foster Wheelers Global with Stone & Webster Engineering responsible for sustainability at Company Secretary and General E&C Group a position he held Corp. as a Chemical Process Design Amec Foster Wheeler.
He joined Legal Counsel of Hays plc, previous since 2013.
Previously he was CEO Engineer and developed his career the Company in 2000 as Human to which she was Company Secretary of the Global E&C Groups Asiathere and at ABB Lummus Global Resources Director for the oil & gas and Group Legal Adviser of Charter Pacific Region.
A 27-year veteran of Inc. becoming company Vice business, moving to the Natural plc.
She is a solicitor and has more Foster Wheeler, he has held a variety President at both engineering and Resources role in 2006. than 20 years experience as a senior of positions with the Company, construction organisations.
He joined lawyer in industry.
She began her Will holds a Masters degree in including managing director of ConocoPhillips in 2005, led upstream career in private practice at Turner Human Resources from The Robert global sales, marketing and strategic and downstream major project Kenneth Brown, advising corporate Gordon University and is a Fellow planning: director of commercial portfolios globally and was ultimately and commercial clients in M&A of CIPD.
operations for Foster Wheeler Asia appointed Chief Procurement Officer before moving in-house to Johnson Pacific: and other senior roles in CPO.
When Phillips 66 was spun Matthey plc where she held various operating unit management, sales off as an independent corporation, senior legal roles.
and commercial management in he led the companys global projects Alison holds an LLB Hons Europe, Asia and the US.
organisation as well as being its from Bristol University and initial CPO.
Roberto has a degree in Mechanical is a qualified solicitor.
Engineering from University Jeff has a BS Chemical Engineering Politecnico Milan.
from The University of Texas at Austin: an MBA in Finance and International Business from the University of Houston.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 55 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
