Remuneration Remuneration committee Remuneration for 2016 There will be no increase in base salary for the CFO for The remuneration committees aim is to design the third year in a row although he will receive an acting up and apply a reward policy that promotes the allowance for the time he undertakes the role of interim CEO, long-term success of the Company.
In order to reflect the changed priorities, we are making several Dear shareholder changes to the operation of our incentive arrangements within Board changes the flexibility allowed for by our existing policy.
On 17 January 2016, Samir Brikho stepped down from the In relation to annual bonus, in line with our overall strategy board and his role of Chief Executive.
He left the Company we are giving greater priority to the need to reduce net debt on 31 January 2016.
In accordance with his contract, Samir by making 25% of the annual bonus opportunity dependent received a payment in lieu of 12 months base salary, benefits on cash and debt management.
50% of bonus will remain and pension.
Further details are provided on page 71. dependent on delivery of the 2016 planned EBITA target and Our CFO, Ian McHoul, has been appointed interim CEO while 25% will be based on other KPIs.
In line with our past practice, we recruit a new Chief Executive.
Ian will receive an acting up the actual targets and outcomes will be disclosed at the end allowance of 20,000 per month for the period he undertakes of the year.
This temporary uplift will also be reflected in In relation to 2016 LTI awards, we plan to introduce a third his pension allowance for this period but other benefits will performance condition related to the implementation and be unchanged.
His maximum bonus opportunity for 2016 will execution of our strategy.
The exact nature of these measures be at the higher level of 150% of salary including the acting and targets will be finalised following the recruitment of our up allowance for the period he fulfils the role of interim CEO new CEO.
This is to ensure that they have an opportunity to and revert to 125% thereafter.
His LTIP opportunity will remain input into the chosen measures so that they are fully aligned unchanged.
Further details are provided on page 67.
The with our strategy going forwards.
It is likely that such measures committee considers that is a fair and reasonable package will focus on reshaping the portfolio, growing the core activity to reflect the additional responsibilities being undertaken.
The committee intends to consult with Remuneration for 2015 shareholders regarding the chosen measures and details of The committees work this year has taken place against the these measures will be disclosed in next years report.
backdrop of the very sharp slowdown in the companys major This strategic scorecard will apply to 40% of the award with markets which has resulted in performance being lower than the remainder continuing to be split evenly between relative anticipated going into the year.
We have also taken into account TSR and EPS performance measures.
the major shift in the net debt position and the decision to rebase the dividend.
This year we have expressed the EPS target as a pence per share range for 2018.
This reflects both expectations for the In the light of this, the committee has also determined that macro market environment, particularly for oil & gas, and our no annual bonus payments will be made to executive directors internal projections which point to a continuing downturn in in respect of 2015 notwithstanding that some of the targets 2016 but which incentivise growth thereafter.
Further details that were set at the start of the year, principally those relating are provided on page 67. to the successful integration of the two legacy businesses, were achieved.
None of the long-term incentive awards made three years ago have vested.
Overall remuneration levels for executive directors have accordingly reduced significantly year on year in line with business performance.
Neil Carson Chairman of the remuneration committee 10 March 2016 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 65 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Remuneration continued Remuneration committee continued Membership and attendance of the remuneration The committee is also supported by the Companys human committee up to 31 December 2015 resources department who may from time to time use third parties to provide data and technical advice.
Scheduled Unscheduled The committee normally meets three times a year and Neil Carson has an established annual agenda of items that it considers Chairman from 14 May 2015 3 3 0 0 at the various meetings, the major elements of which are Simon Thompson summarised below.
Chairman up to 14 May 2015 1 1 0 0 Linda Adamany from 30 April 2015 2 2 0 0 March X Confirmation of shortand long-term incentive outcomes.
John Connolly 3 3 0 0 X Approval of Directors remuneration report.
Colin Day 3 3 0 0 X New long-term incentive awards.
The quorum for the committee is two members.
There were X August Shareholder feedback consultation.
three scheduled and no unscheduled meetings held in 2015.
The Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director and other members of management attend meetings by invitation.
X Committee processes and appointment of consultants.
Simon Thompson retired as a director at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM and was succeeded as committee chairman X December Review of individual base salaries by Neil Carson and on 30 April, Linda Adamany was appointed and total remuneration.
In considering the matters within its remit, the committee takes account of recommendations from the Chairman in respect of In order to fully take account of the impact of the the Chief Executive and from the Chief Executive in respect of Foster Wheeler acquisition and the changed market outlook, the other executive directors and designated executives.
the decisions that would normally have been made at the December 2014 meeting were largely deferred to the meeting The committee is advised independently by Deloitte who took in March 2015. over the role from New Bridge Street NBS during the year following a retender process.
During the year Deloitte also provided advice to management in relation to the interpretation of the Remuneration Reporting Regulations and below board remuneration.
Separate teams within Deloitte provided unrelated advisory services in respect of business model integration, research, development and innovation taxation, treasury taxation, corporate finance and treasury services to the Group during the year.
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and adheres to this Code in its dealings with the committee.
The committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte is objective and independent.
The committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
The committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
NBS did not undertake any material additional work for the Company.
NBS is wholly owned by Aon plc and while other companies within the Aon group do undertake material work for the Company, this is not in the area of executive remuneration and arrangements were in place within the Aon group to ring-fence NBS from other services provided.
Deloitte was paid 11,250 and NBS was paid 23,328 during the year for the advice provided to the committee on the basis of time expended and seniority of individuals providing the advice.
Amec Foster Wheeler 66 Annual report and accounts 2015
