Leadership and effectiveness continued Board composition As at 31 December 2015, the board comprised the non-executive The balance of executive and non-executive directors provides chairman: two executive directors the Chief Executive and continuity on the board while ensuring no one individual, or the Chief Financial Officer : and five non-executive directors.
group of individuals, dominates the decision-making process.
Roy Franklin was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 January 2016.
Experience of the board 8 Financial management The Company announced on 18 January 2016 that Samir and corporate finance Brikho had stepped down as Chief Executive.
Upon Mr Brikhos 7 Corporate governance departure, Ian McHoul was appointed to the role of interim CEO, International experience 4 which he has agreed to fulfil alongside his role as Chief Financial Experience in business sectors relevant to Amec Foster Wheeler Officer until the search for a new CEO is concluded.
HSSE 5 Strategy Directors tenure as at 31 December 2015 8 Number of board directors John Connolly 4yrs 7m 7 with experience in each topic Samir Brikho 9yrs 3m The varied backgrounds and commercial experience of the non- 7yrs 3m Ian McHoul executive directors, and their independence from management, 3yrs 3m Linda Adamany ensures rigorous debate at meetings and constructive Neil Carson 5yrs 4m challenge and oversight of the executive directors in relation to the strategic direction and performance of the group.
Colin Day 5yrs 2m Kent Masters 10m Gender diversity of the board 75 1yr 1m Stephanie Newby % Female 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Male Details of the directors, including their biographies, other 25 significant commitments and committee memberships can be found on pages 41 to 43.
Details of the directors service contracts, emoluments and share interests are set out in the remuneration report on pages 67 to 80.
The Companys articles of association require all directors to seek election by shareholders at the AGM following As part of the companys broader diversity initiative, it supports their initial appointment and re-election every three years the recommendations of the final report in the Davies Review thereafter.
However, in line with the recommendations of the series.
We are pleased to say that two out of our eight directors Code, our practice is that all directors submit themselves for are female, representing 25% of our board.
Candidates for re-election on an annual basis.
All of the directors wishing to board appointments are evaluated on merit in light of the continue serving, and considered eligible by the board, will requirements of the role, having due regard to the group-wide offer themselves for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Roy Franklin commitment to diversity and inclusion.
The board recognises will also seek election at the forthcoming AGM, having been the importance of diversity, including but not limited to gender appointed on 1 January 2016. balance across the group more generally.
In 2015, Amec The independence of the non-executive directors is continually Foster Wheelers diversity initiatives have continued to focus monitored and formally assessed as part of the boards on implementing its group-wide commitment to achieving a annual evaluation process.
The board considers that, with more diverse workforce and inclusive working environment, the exception of Kent Masters, whose previous employment including encouraging and enabling greater diversity of thinking.
by Foster Wheeler precludes him from meeting the required During the year a global mandatory procedure on diversity and independence criteria, the non-executive directors are inclusion was introduced to drive associated action plans with independent and free from any relationships or circumstances measurable objectives for monitoring progress.
The gender that could affect their independent judgement.
diversity of the Company and its senior management is shown on page 14.
Membership of the board 6 Non-executive Chairman 1 Executive director Non-executive director 1 Amec Foster Wheeler 46 Annual report and accounts 2015
