Board role and responsibilities The board is collectively responsible for delivering sustainable During the year, to take account of Amec Foster Wheelers new long-term shareholder value in line with its obligations to and values and expected working behaviours, the board launched the expectations of the Groups stakeholders.
new versions of fundamental documents in the Companys governance framework including a new Code of Business The board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic Conduct.
The Code of Business Conduct is the cornerstone of aims and providing the leadership and resources to achieve its the Companys approach to governance and is applicable to all objectives.
The boards role is to be distinguished from overall employees, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer operational management, which is the responsibility of the and other senior financial professionals.
The Code of Business Chief Executive who, in turn, delegates authorities to the Chief Conduct is the responsibility of and is upheld by the board: Financial Officer, business unit and functional leaders.
They it acts as a guide for our day-to-day working life, providing have in turn further delegated authorities to their teams.
a practical application of Amec Foster Wheelers values and In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control ensuring all those who work for and under Amec Foster Wheelers direction understand the behaviour that is expected of the Group, a number of key matters are not delegated to management and as such the board maintains a schedule of them.
The Code of Business Conduct, which is available to employees in 14 different languages, complies with relevant UK of matters reserved for its approval.
These include: and US regulations and is available on the Companys website X annual strategic and short-range plans at amecfw.
com ethics X financial and treasury policies A global policies document works in conjunction with the Code X risk identification, risk appetite, risk management of Business Conduct providing further detail and elaboration and internal control systems on matters affecting all of Amec Foster Wheelers businesses.
The global policies document describes the key policies for X high-value potentially high-risk projects directing and managing the Groups businesses consistently X major acquisitions and disposals in accordance with our vision and values.
These global policies are supported by a set of mandatory procedures, which X Code of Business Conduct further explain how the policies are to be applied.
Together, X full and half-year accounts the global policies and procedures set the framework within which business, functional and local policies and procedures X dividend policy are set.
The board approves the group-wide policy framework.
X succession planning for directors and senior executives On a day-to-day basis, the board has delegated responsibility for implementation of the global policies and ownership of the X group-wide policy framework procedures to the Group Leadership Team.
The board considers X ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices the global policies to be part of the risk-based approach to corporate governance and the maintenance of sound X appointment and removal of the Company Secretary internal controls.
This schedule is reviewed for continued acceptability on an In order to discharge its role, the board is also responsible annual basis.
In March 2015, the schedule was reviewed and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control a number of changes were made to take account of various systems.
The board has a rigorous and comprehensive risk matters including the UK Corporate Governance Code and the management approach to protect the Groups assets and the Companys new operating model.
In July 2015, a further change interests of its stakeholders and create an environment for was made to include a requirement for board approval of high business success.
The board regularly reviews the effectiveness value, potentially high risk projects.
and adequacy of the Groups financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems.
High quality corporate governance helps to underpin long-term company performance and the board is responsible The board is supported in its work by four board committees for maintaining strong governance practices and regularly nominations, audit, HSSEE and remuneration, chaired by reviewing the Companys governance structure as illustrated either the board Chairman or another non-executive director, on page 44. and a number of management committees and groups, chaired by executive directors or other senior individuals, to which specific responsibilities have been delegated.
You can find out more about the membership, duties, responsibilities and work of these committees in the dedicated reports that follow.
Full written terms of reference for each board committee can also be found online at amecfw.
com aboutus corporate-governance The directors believe that the board leads and controls the Group effectively and that all directors act in accordance with what they consider to be the best interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties under the Companies Act 2006 and other legislation.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 45 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
