Engagement Relations with shareholders The executive directors undertake an extensive programme The board views the AGM as an opportunity to directly of meetings with institutional shareholders during each year.
communicate the groups progress and engage with Our results presentations and investor education events are shareholders.
Where possible, the entire board will attend recorded and remain available on our website at amecfw.
com the AGM and will be available to answer questions from those investors for those unable to participate on the day.
The board encourages all shareholders to attend and participate where possible.
Each year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director offer to meet with all major shareholders.
Since the publication of the At last years AGM a number of interesting questions were previous annual report, 15 such meetings have taken place.
raised and all of the proposed resolutions passed by way of a poll vote.
The percentage of the companys share capital voted The Chairman attends full-year results presentations.
in favour of each resolution ranged from 88.27% to 99.99%.
Ad-hoc requests from shareholders for meetings with members of the board are facilitated by the investor relations team.
Find out more online The board also receives unedited feedback reports following Visit our website at amecfw.
com investors for further information regarding shareholder meetings and all material brokers research notes, this years AGM.
together with a report at each meeting including benchmark data within our peer group.
During 2015 we appointed Quantifire, an independent service provider, to update our shareholder contact base and provide us with regular feedback from our investor engagement activities.
This information is used to help target potential new shareholders and improve the efficiency and quality of our investor communications.
Our 2016 AGM will be held at Painters Hall, 9 Little Trinity Lane, London, EC4V 2AD on 27 April 2016 at 11:00am.
The notice of meeting, which includes explanatory notes on the business to be transacted at the meeting, accompanies this report and is also available on our website.
Separate resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to receive the annual report and accounts: to declare a final dividend: to approve the remuneration report, to re-elect each of the current directors who will retire in accordance with the provisions of the Code: to elect Roy Franklin as a director: to re-elect Ernst & Young LLP as auditor: and to authorise the directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
Shareholders will also be asked to renew both the general authority of the directors to allot shares in the company and to allot such shares without the application of statutory pre-emption rights.
In addition, shareholders will be requested to authorise the company to make market purchases of its own shares within prescribed limits and approve the resolution, to be repeated at each AGM going forward, to authorise the calling of general meetings, other than annual general meetings, on 14 clear days notice.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 81 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
