Leadership and effectiveness continued Non-executive directors The non-executive directors are crucial in bringing an external perspective and wide range of skills, experience, expertise and diversity of views to the boards deliberations and the development of strategy.
They constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of management against agreed objectives and provide an invaluable contribution to the work of the boards committees.
In January 2015, the membership of each of the board committees was restructured to ensure the most effective use of each non-executive directors time and to more appropriately reflect their skills and experience.
The board benefits greatly from the contribution and balance they bring.
To ensure this continues, the Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, immediately following most scheduled board meetings.
The boards policy is that non-executive director appointments are normally for three consecutive three-year terms, subject to assessment by the nominations committee after the end of each term.
The committee makes recommendations on reappointments to the board.
To ensure independence and constructive challenge, prior to appointment and on any material changes, the external commitments of each non-executive director, including those of the Chairman, are reviewed.
During the year, Neil Carson joined the board of TT Electronics plc as chairman and Colin Day was appointed as a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Meggitt plc.
In accordance with the boards policy to ensure that non-executive directors are not conflicted and are able to commit sufficient time to meet their duties and responsibilities to Amec Foster Wheeler, the prospective appointments were disclosed to the board for approval.
In neither case was it considered that the external appointment would have a detrimental effect.
Each directors undertaking as to their ongoing commitment to the role, together with an assessment of their continued independence, is reviewed as part of their annual performance evaluation.
Amec Foster Wheelers non-executive directors are not employed by the Company in any capacity.
Kent Masters was the former Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler AG and Stephanie Newby was formerly an independent non-executive director of Foster Wheeler AG.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office by request to the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection at the companys forthcoming AGM.
Amec Foster Wheeler 48 Annual report and accounts 2015
