Professional development Internally facilitated training is arranged by the Company The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in the co-ordination of director induction upon appointment and Secretary on topics and issues relevant to the operation of the board and the responsibilities of the directors.
A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new directors which takes into account their receives presentations from management on changes and significant developments in the business.
Updates previous experience, background and role on the board.
The programme is tailored accordingly to: on changes in legislation and communications from the Company Secretarys office on key developments in corporate X provide an understanding of the duties and responsibilities governance are also provided.
In addition, use is made of of a director and their particular role external auditor and adviser training programmes.
During X build an understanding of how the board operates within the year the board received presentations from internal and external experts on such matters as health and safety legal Amec Foster Wheelers structure requirements and changes to the UK Corporate Governance X further their knowledge and understanding of Amec Foster Code, including risk management, internal control and going Wheelers culture, its business and operations and the concern requirements, the new viability statement, executive markets and countries in which it operates remuneration and relations with shareholders.
From time to X establish a link with Amec Foster Wheelers management time the directors individually attend seminars and conferences related to their areas of expertise and responsibility.
and people X establish an understanding of the Companys main To further develop the directors understanding of the Groups relationships businesses and culture, the board undertakes visits to various places of Amec Foster Wheeler business.
As previously New directors are provided with key board, operational and mentioned, during the year the board visited the Groups financial information and relevant legislatory and regulatory Houston, US, and Reading, UK, operations.
The programme is designed so as to prioritise and vary the delivery of materials to optimise its effectiveness and facilitate completion in a timely manner.
The programme involves a combination of documentation, accessible via the portal used by the board to communicate and share documents electronically, meetings with other members of the board, senior management and their extended teams, key external parties including the Companys advisers and, where appropriate, major shareholders, and site visits where possible.
Where a new director is to serve on a board committee, induction material relevant to the committee is also provided.
Progress against the induction programme is reviewed with the director midway throughout the process to ensure a smooth transition into director training and ongoing development.
Ongoing training, relevant to each directors individual development needs, continues after appointment.
The Chairman endeavours to review the training and development needs of the directors at least annually.
The aim is to ensure the further enhancement of their skills and knowledge of the business, so that they continue to fulfil their role effectively on the board and its committees.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 51 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
