GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE Byron Grote Chairman, Audit Committee A key requirement of our financial statements is for the report to be fair balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts meet this requirement as appropriate weight has been given to both positive and negative developments in the year.
In justifying this statement, the Audit Committee has considered the robust process which operates in creating COMPOSITION the report and accounts including: Byron Grote Chairman clear guidance and instruction is provided to all Judy Dlamini contributors Sir Philip Hampton revisions to regulatory requirements, including the Code Jim Rutherford are provided to contributors and monitored on an Anne Stevens on-going basis early-warning meetings are conducted between business ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES unit management and auditors in advance of the year end reporting process Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial statements.
a thorough process of review, evaluation and verification of the inputs from business units is undertaken to ensure Making recommendations to the Board concerning the accuracy and consistency adoption of the annual and interim financial statements.
external advisors provide advice to management and the Overseeing the Groups relations with the external Audit Committee on best practice with regard to creation auditors.
of the report and accounts Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups a meeting of the Audit Committee was held in February risk management and internal control mechanisms.
2016 to review and approve the draft 2015 annual report Approving the terms of reference of the internal and accounts in advance of the final sign-off by the Board.
This review included the critical accounting judgements explained in Note 1, pages 118-119 and the conclusions of Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular the external auditors page 110. reports from the head of internal audit on effectiveness of the internal control system.
COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2015 Receiving reports from management on the Principal Risks of the Group.
Details of the Principal Risks are Throughout the course of 2015 the audit committee paid contained on pages 41-45. particular attention to the evolving commodity price risk and managements actions to mitigate the effects of the risk.
The Committee terms of reference are available Discussion included the actions to maintain sufficient to view online.
liquidity, the disposal programme and the dividend policy.
In For more information, visit www.
com aboutus ourapproach addition, the implications of the weaker price environment on asset values was subject to detailed review The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2015.
The specific items covered in each meeting included the following: February significant accounting issues, the going concern assessment, the 2014 final dividend proposal and thepress release for the 2014 annual results the results of the external audit work the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources report report on completion of the 2014 internal audit plan andmonitoring of the completion of actions agreed inaudit work the Audit Committees members evaluation of its performance during 2014.
78 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Governance April the interim internal audit report, including progress with the Groups accounting policies over asset valuations, the 2015 plan restructuring costs, the accounting implications of the Principal Risks of the Group including movement in Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates and each risk since the prior review, potential impacts, root developments in financial reporting.
The Audit Committee causes and mitigation actions approved changes to policies as proposed, including separate disclosure for Group-wide, permanent a report on renewal of the Groups insurance restructuring programmes as a special item if greater than arrangements.
$50million intotal, and noting the stricter guidelines being December applied to use of Inferred Resources in life of mine plans the significant accounting and financial reporting matters the 2014 management letter from Deloitte, noting that no for the 2015 year end, including impairments Note 6, points were raised that could lead to a misstatement in the page 126 and disposals Note 30, page 151.
The committee reviewed the Committee also reviewed the enhanced disclosure of the observations highlighted by Deloitte Group accounting policy on depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 39, page 161 managements assessment of the auditor independence and effectiveness in delivery of the 2014 audit an update on tax matters a report on the Groups ethical framework and approved the audit fee proposed for 2015 recommendations, including the development of a new approved the external audit plan for 2015 and requested code of conduct the auditors to include findings of their work in the auditors a report on the governance, policy and approach to report page 110 mitigating risk of bribery and corruption a paper on trading and agreed to recommend to the Board a report on governance, risk and compliance activities approval for an expansion in trading activities associated with the Marketing business unit, including progress in developing a new code of ethical conduct for trading activities the Group a report on the management of cyber risk, including a paper providing an update on managements response actions planned to enhance the maturity of information to the 2014 Deloitte management letter observations security measures referred to in the April meeting a report analysing the Groups pension assets and liabilities the process concerning the Viability Statement and managements approach to mitigating pension risk preparation and the Principal Risks that form part of the executive director expenses for 2014 and the Group analysis.
Included a discussion of risk appetite in respect Travel policy.
of each of the Principal Risks July reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2016 the significant accounting issues for the half-year report, agreed changes to the Terms of Reference of the Audit including impairments Note 6, page 126 and disposals Committee to include oversight responsibility of the Code Note 30, page 151 of Conduct and preparation of the Viability Statement.
the going concern assessment including the underlying The Audit Committee report is set out below.
assumptions, risks and mitigating actions to support the assessment a report on tax matters including an update on transfer pricing matters and developments in regulations relating to tax reporting a report from Deloitte on their interim review which covered the accounting issues referred to above and 2015 audit planning considerations the interim financial statements, draft press release and the interim dividend proposal the schedule of approved non-audit fees for the half year a paper from management on an initiative to extend trading activity beyond thermal coal a briefing on changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, including managements approach to developing the Viability Statement Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 79
