Governance GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2015 THE BOARD IN 2015 Role of the chairman THE ROLE OF THE BOARD Sir John Parker manages the Board.
His main The Board provides leadership to the Group and is responsibilities include: responsible for its long term success.
It seeks to achieve Board leadership this by establishing the tone from the top, through debating Board composition and succession planning and stress-testing Group strategy proposals, approving Governance business plans, monitoring performance, overseeing risk Advising, providing counsel and acting as management and ensuring that the right people are in place confidant to the chief executive via board and executive succession planning.
Ambassador for the Group Available for shareholders The Board is supported by a number of committees, to which it has delegated certain powers.
The role of these Role of the chief executive committees is summarised below, and their membership Mark Cutifani manages the Group.
His main and activities during the year are detailed on pages 7682. responsibilities include: Under the Groups governance arrangements, certain Executive leadership key decisions can only be made by the Board and may not Formulation of Group strategy be delegated.
The schedule of Matters Reserved for the Approval and monitoring of business plans Anglo American plc Board, and the committees terms of Organisational structure and senior appointments reference, detailing the specific responsibilities of the Acquisitions and disposals and business development Board and its committees, can be found online.
Shareholder relations For more information, visit Role of the senior independent director SID www.
com aboutus ourapproach Sir Philip Hampton, as the SID, is available to discuss any concerns with shareholders that cannot be addressed through the normal chairman chief executive channels.
He also acts as a sounding board for the chairman and as an intermediary for other directors, if necessary.
Governance structure The Board Group Management Committee Provides leadership to the Group and GMC is responsible for its long term success.
Audit Committee Corporate Committee Responsible for formulating Oversight of financial reporting, audit, CorpCo strategy, setting targets budgets internal control and risk management.
Reviews corporate and ethical and managing the Groups policies and processes, and portfolio.
See page 78 for more details.
financial performance and For more information see budgets at BU level.
GMC Rules on the Groups website.
Nomination Committee Operational Committee Responsible for board composition, OpCo appointment of directors and senior Responsible for driving management and succession planning.
operational best practices across the Group and the See page 77 for more details.
Remuneration Committee Investment Committee Determines the remuneration of InvestCo executive directors, the chairman and Responsible for making senior management and oversees recommendations to the GMC remuneration policy for all employees.
See page 82 for more details.
Sustainability Committee Oversees management of sustainability issues, including safety, health.
environment, social and governmental relations.
See page 76 for more details.
Board committees Executive committees Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 71 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2015 BOARD COMPOSITION years.
In terms of diversity, the Company has achieved The Board currently comprises the chairman, three the Davies Report target of 25% women on the Board, executive directors and eight independent non-executive with directors from Australia, France, Ireland, Lesotho, directors.
Composition is regularly refreshed, with half of South Africa, the UK, and the US, with a broad range of theBoard appointed within the last three years and no professional experience as set out in the table below.
non-executive director having served more than seven Board diversity Nationality Australia South Africa France UK Ireland UK US Lesotho US Professional Percentage of experience Board membership Automotive 8% Education government 17% public entities Energy 17% Engineering construction 33% Finance 33% Medical healthcare 17% Mining 33% Other global multinational 58% Social enterprises 8% Telecoms 8% 72 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Governance BOARD DISCUSSIONS Board and Committee meetings 2015 frequency and attendance of members The chairman has developed and maintains a two-year rolling agenda which sets the framework for Board Independent Board Audit Sustainability Remuneration Nomination meetings and seeks to ensure that each meeting covers an appropriate range of topics from routine business, Sir John n a 6 6 4 4 3 3 Parker through operational reports and project updates, to special items and matters of strategy and business development Mark No 6 6 4 4 and that, over the course of a year, the Board covers its Cutifani whole remit.
Ren No 6 6 Each meeting includes a wide-ranging report from the Mdori chief executive and a report from the finance director on the Groups financial performance, including the impact Phuthuma Yes 0 6 0 3 0 3 1 of declining commodity prices.
Reports from the Nhleko committee chairmen, updates on major projects and Judy Yes 6 6 4 4 3 3 certain other administrative matters are also reported Dlamini at each Board meeting.
Byron Yes 6 6 4 4 3 3 In addition to these regular items, the following matters Grote were discussed, among others, during 2015: Sir Philip Yes 6 6 4 4 3 3 3 3 February Hampton Annual results and dividend recommendation Business Report Engineering and large projects 2 Tony No 3 3 4 4 Litigation update ONeill Review of 2014 Board and committee evaluation 3 3 3 Ray Yes 5 6 3 4 3 3 2 3 April ORourke Business Report Kumba Iron Ore Commodity forecasts macro-economic scenarios Mphu Yes 6 6 4 4 Ramatlapeng Strategy update AGM preview Jim Yes 6 6 4 4 4 4 Rutherford June Business Report Platinum 3 3 Anne Yes 5 6 2 4 3 3 Major supply contract for approval Stevens Board Strategy sessions two days External presentation on the economic, social and political Jack Yes 6 6 4 4 3 3 outlook for South Africa Thompson External presentation on the global economy 1 Mr Nhleko did not attend meetings to avoid a potential conflict of interest, and stepped down from the Board July in November 2015.
Interim results and interim dividend recommendation 3 Unable to attend due to illness.
Business Report Coal South Africa Litigation update October Business Report fide Beers including a Board visit to the Gaborone diamond sorting office and Jwaneng mine, Botswana Engineering and large projects update Business Report Exploration Investor roadshows summary of feedback December December Investor Day presentation External presentation on global mining trends Decision to suspend dividends Strategic re-focusing of the Group Budget and Business Plans 2016-2018 Business Report Base Metals Mining industry update and long term outlook Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 73 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2015 BOARD VISITS TO OPERATIONS During 2015, the Board visited the Minas-Rio iron ore Our directors value the opportunity to get out of the project in Brazil, the fide Beers diamond sorting office boardroom and see the Groups operations on the ground.
and Jwaneng mine in Botswana and Judy Dlamini and Visiting mines, processing facilities and surrounding Mphu Ramatlapeng visited an Anglo American Platinum communities and talking to local employees provides community agriculture project in South Africa.
vital operational context to the Boards deliberations.
Images Top: Board visit to Jwaneng mine.
Middle left: Mark Cutifani address to fide Beers staff.
Middle right: Board visit to fide Beers sorting office.
Bottom left: Board visit to Jwaneng mine.
Bottom right: Board visit to Minas Rio 74 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Governance BOARD EVALUATION INVESTOR RELATIONS In accordance with the Code, we conduct an externally The Company maintains an active engagement with its key facilitated evaluation every three years, with the 2015 financial audiences, including institutional shareholders and exercise undertaken by Independent Board Evaluation buy and sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders.
Its conclusions and resulting The Investor Relations department manages the interaction actions will be reported in the 2016 annual report.
with these audiences and regular presentations take place at the time of the interim and final results as well as during Between the externally facilitated reviews, the Board the rest of the year, including an annual capital markets day.
and committees undertake an online, questionnaire based, evaluation of performance.
This is augmented An active programme of communication with potential by one-to-one interviews by the chairman with the shareholders is also maintained.
Any significant concerns raised by a shareholder in relation The internal evaluation undertaken in late 2014 was to the Company and its affairs are communicated to the reviewed by the Board and relevant committees in early Board.
The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the 2015.
Overall, performance of the Board was highly rated.
Investor Relations department and analysts reports are However, as one would expect from an engaged board, circulated to the directors.
Feedback from meetings held there was the opportunity for further improvements.
At a between executive management, or the Investor Relations time of increased volatility in the industry the Board needs department, and institutional shareholders, is also to continue its focus on the management of risks.
It also communicated to the Board.
needs to strengthen its links with the Management of the During the year there were regular presentations to, and Businesses to ensure that the expertise and experience of meetings with, institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, Board members is utilised in support of restructuring and continental Europe, the US and Canada to communicate the strategic change.
Suggestions to improve strategic debates, strategy and performance of Anglo American.
Executive especially around the Strategy Day, were also addressed.
directors as well as key executives, including business unit heads, host such presentations, which include seminars for investors and analysts and one-on-one meetings.
Throughout the year, executive management also presents at industry conferences that are mainly organised by investment banks for their institutional investor base.
The chairman, the senior independent director and other non-executive directors are available to shareholders to discuss any matter they wish to raise.
The Companys website provides the latest news and historical financial information, details about forthcoming events for shareholders and analysts, and other information regarding Anglo American.
In November 2015 the Board received notice of a shareholder requisitioned resolution which will be proposed at the AGM in April 2016.
The resolution, proposed by the Aiming for A partners, would require the Group to report on its response to the long-term challenge posed by climate change.
Further details are provided in the Notice of AGM.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 75
