Governance GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2015 Sir John Parker Chairman, Nomination Committee The Committee met three times during 2015, discussing the following matters: February discussed the composition of the Board and its committees and, in line with the results of the recent evaluation, concluded it was currently appropriate and working well reviewed the effectiveness of senior and executive COMPOSITION management succession planning Sir John Parker Chairman reviewed the results of the 2014 Board evaluation and Sir Philip Hampton discussed possible learnings.
Ray ORourke Anne Stevens July a recommendation that Tony ONeill be appointed to theBoard ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES an update on the process to recruit a new HR Director Setting guidelines with the approval of the Board for the an update on the Group-wide review of indirect types of skills, experience and diversity being sought when headcount and discussed potential changes at senior making a search for new directors.
With the assistance of levels within the organisation.
external search consultants, identifying and reviewing in detail potential candidates available in the market and October agreeing a longlist of candidates for each directorship.
noted that Mr Nhleko was likely to step down from the Following further discussion and research, deciding Board to focus on his South African business interests upon a shortlist of candidates for interview.
Interviewing the CEO reported on the structure and composition of of shortlisted candidates by the Committee members the Groups executive committees.
who then convene to discuss their impressions and conclusions, culminating in a recommendation to the Board.
Making recommendations as to the composition of the Board and its committees and the balance between executive directors and non-executive directors NEDs, with the aim of cultivating a diverse board with the appropriate mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
Ensuring succession plans for all executive Board members, Chairman and senior executives below the Board are kept under review.
Ensuring that the HR function of the Group regularly reviews and updates the succession plans of directors and senior managers for subsequent debate with the NEDs and chief executive.
The Committees terms of reference are available to view online.
For more information, visit www.
com aboutus ourapproach Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 77
