GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN FINANCE DIRECTOR Sir John Parker Ren Mdori GBE, FREng, DSc Eng, ScD Hon, Doctorate in Economics DSc Hon, DUniv Hon, FRINA 73, joined the Board as a non-executive director on 9 July 58, was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2005, becoming 2009 and became chairman on 1August 2009.
Sir John finance director on 1 September 2005.
Ren is a member is also chairman of the Nomination Committee and is ofthe GMC and chairman of the CorpCo and the Investment a member of the Sustainability Committee.
He is recognised Committee InvestCo.
Ren brings significant financial and as a highly experienced and independent chairman and commercial expertise from capital-intensive businesses, brings a wealth of leadership experience across a range of supplying products to the oil refining, steel and mining industries in many countries, including in South Africa.
industries and experience in international finance in the UK, Europe and the US.
He is chairman of Pennon Group PLC and a non-executive director of Carnival Corporation and Airbus Group.
Sir John He is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum is a Visiting Fellow of the University of Oxford and was the Limited and Petrofac Limited.
Ren is a former finance President of the Royal Academy of Engineering from 2011 director of The BOC Group plc and was a non-executive to 2014.
Sir John was previously chairman of National Grid director of SSE plc formerly Scottish and Southern plc, Deputy Chairman of DP World, senior non-executive Energyplc.
director and chair of the Court of the Bank of England, joint chair of Mondi and chair of BVT and P&O plc.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE TECHNICAL DIRECTOR Tony ONeill Mark Cutifani BE Mining Engineering MBA, BASc Eng 57, was appointed as a director and chief executive with 58, was appointed to the Board as technical director on effect from 3April 2013, and is chairman of the Group 22July 2015, having joined the Group in 2013.
He is a Management Committee GMC and a member of the member of the Sustainability and Investment Committees.
Corporate Committee CorpCo and the Sustainability He is also a non-executive director of fide Beers, and Committee.
Mark has over 38 years experience of the Anglo American Platinum Limited.
mining industry across a wide range of geographies Tony joined AngloGold Ashanti in July 2008 as Executive and commodities.
Vice President Business and Technical Development and Mark is a non-executive director of Anglo American served as Joint Acting CEO until July 2013.
His 36-year Platinum Limited and chairman of Anglo American career in the mining industry has spanned iron ore, copper, South Africa and of the fide Beers group of companies.
nickel and gold, and includes his roles as operations He was previously the CEO of AngloGold Ashanti Limited.
executive at Newcrest Mining and as the head of the gold Before joining AngloGold Ashanti, Mark was COO at Vale business at Western Mining Corporation.
Tony is a mining Inco, where he was responsible for Vales global nickel engineer with an MBA from the University of Melbourne.
Prior to this he held senior executive positions with the Normandy Group, Sons of Gwalia, Western Mining Corporation, Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines and CRA Rio Tinto.
66 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Governance SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Sir Philip Hampton Byron Grote MA, ACA, MBA PhD Quantitative Analysis 62, joined the Board on 9 November 2009.
He is chairman 67, was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2013.
He is of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Sir Philip is chairman Remuneration Committee.
Byron contributes broad of GlaxoSmithKline and brings to Anglo American business, financial and board experience in numerous significant financial, strategic and boardroom experience geographies.
He is a non-executive director of Standard Chartered, His previous appointments include chairman of The Royal Akzo Nobel and Tesco PLC.
Byron has extensive Bank of Scotland and JSainsbury plc, finance director of management experience across the oil and gas industry.
Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British He served on the BP plc board from 2000 until 2013 and Gas plc and British Steel plc, executive director of Lazards, was BPs chief financial officer during much of that period.
and non-executive director of RMC Group plc and Belgacom SA.
Sir Philip became the senior independent Ray ORourke director at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
KBE, HonFREng, CEng, FIEI, FICE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 69, joined the Board on 11 December 2009.
He is a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and Judy Dlamini Sustainability committees.
Ray has a proven track record MBChB, DOH, MBA, DBL in delivering complex and large-scale projects around the world, mobilising large numbers of people with great success and applying leading project management and engineering practices.
As a member of the Sustainability Committee, he has a keen interest in safety.
56, was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2014 and is a Ray founded the ORourke Group in 1977, having begun his member of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
Judy career at Kier and J Murphy & Sons.
In 2001, the ORourke isa successful businesswoman with longstanding public Group acquired John Laing to form Laing ORourke, now company board experience across a range of geographies Europes largest privately owned construction company, and sectors, including mining.
She is the founder and chairman of Mbekani Group, a South African healthcare investment company, and a former chairman of Aspen Pharmacare.
Judy served as a nonexecutive director of Northam Platinum between 2004 and 2013, andas a member of that companys committees on: health: safety and environmental: investment: and social, ethics andhuman resources.
She started her career as a medical practitioner and after spending two years at HSBC, she began to develop her entrepreneurial interests.
Judy is also a founder and trustee of Mkhiwa Trust, a family vehicle for social responsibility initiatives, and has served as a non-executive director on the boards of Discovery Holdings and Woolworths Holdings.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 67 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS continued Mphu Ramatlapeng Anne Stevens MD, MHSc BSc, PhD 63, was appointed to the Board on 8 July 2013 and is a 67, joined the Board on 14 May 2012 and is a member member of the Sustainability Committee.
Mphu is ahighly of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Anne brings a experienced leader who brings a broad range of South wealth of experience and wide-ranging commercial acumen African and international health expertise at board level from a number of global industries.
She has experience across both the public and private sectors.
She has a clear gained across North, Central and South America.
vision and deep understanding of the social benefits Anne has served on the board of Lockheed Martin of effective healthcare programmes and capacity building Corporation as a non-executive director since 2002, and is through partnership.
also the chairman of a privately held IT services business, Mphu is the Executive Vice President of HIV AIDS and SAIT.
Annes 16-year career with the Ford Motor Company Tuberculosis programmes for the Clinton Health Access culminated in her appointment as COO for the Americas, Initiative and also the Vice Chair of the Global Fund to Fight aposition she held until 2006.
Prior to joining Ford in 1990, AIDS, TB and Malaria.
She served as Minister of Health and Anne spent 10 years in a number of engineering, product Social Welfare of Lesotho between 2007 and 2012.
In this development, and sales and marketing roles at Exxon role, she championed Lesothos significant achievements Chemical Co, and three years as chairman and CEO of inreducing the transmission of HIV from mother to child.
Across her career, she has also been a leading advocate for women in business, including serving as founding board Jack Thompson member of Women in Business in Lesotho.
BSc, PhD Jim Rutherford BSc Econ, MA Econ 65, joined the Board on 16 November 2009 and is chairman of the Sustainability Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Jack brings experience gained 56, joined the Board on 4 November 2013.
Jim is a member at all levels of the mining industry and has received wide of the Sustainability and Audit Committees.
He has recognition as a mining executive.
He is currently a extensive experience in investment management and non-executive director of Tidewater Inc. investment banking, both as an institutional investor and Jack was previously chairman and CEO of Homestake analyst.
He brings to the Board considerable financial Mining Co. vice chairman of Barrick Gold Corp. and has insight from the perspective of the capital markets and served on the boards of Centerra Gold Inc. Century a deep understanding of the mining industry.
Aluminum Co. Molycorp Inc. Phelps Dodge Corp. Jim is also a non-executive director of Dalradian Resources Rinker Group Ltd. and Stillwater Mining.
Between 1997 and 2013, he was a Senior Vice President of Capital International Investors, a division of the Phuthuma Nhleko stepped down from the Board in Capital Group, and had responsibility for investments in the November 2015. mining and metals industry.
Prior to joining Capital Group, Jim was an investment analyst covering the South American mining and metals industry for HSBC James Capel in NewYork.
68 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
