GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit tender ENSURING INDEPENDENCE OF THE Anglo American will undertake, at the latest, a tender EXTERNAL AUDITORS and rotation of the audit appointment at the time of the Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence is rotation of the lead engagement partner which is due consistent with the ethical standards published by the Audit after completion of the 2019 audit.
Anglo American confirms compliance during the year A key factor that may impair an auditors independence is with the provisions of the Competition and Markets alack of control over non-audit services provided by the Authority Order on mandatory tendering and audit external auditors.
The external auditors independence is committee responsibilities.
deemed to be impaired if the auditors provide a service that: Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2015 results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the external of the Group auditors independence was not impaired.
puts the auditor in the role of advocate for the Group The Audit Committee held meetings with the external auditors without the presence of management on two creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors occasions and the chairman of the Audit Committee held and the Group.
regular meetings with the lead audit engagement partner Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary during the year.
measures, namely: Consideration given to the appointment of the disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services external auditors The Audit Committees assessment of the external the prohibition of selected services this includes the auditors performance and independence underpins its undertaking of internal audit services recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders prior approval by the audit committee chairman of the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors until the non-audit services where the cost of the proposed service conclusion of the AGM in 2017.
Resolutions to authorise the is likely to exceed $50,000.
Board to re-appoint and determine the remuneration of Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the AGM on 21April2016.
Anglo Americans policy on the provision of non-audit services is regularly reviewed.
The definition of prohibited Risk Management non-audit services corresponds with the European Risk Management is the responsibility of the Board and is Commissions recommendations on auditors independence integral to the achievement of our objectives.
The Board and with the Ethical Standards issued by the Audit Practices establishes the system of risk management, setting risk Board in the UK.
appetite and maintaining the system of internal control to manage risk within the Group.
The Groups system of risk Other safeguards management and internal control are monitored by the The external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation Audit Committee under delegation from the Board.
policy based on best practice and professional standards in the United Kingdom.
The standard period for rotation The system of risk management is designed to ensure of the audit engagement partner is five years and for any awareness of risks that threaten the achievement of key audit partner, seven years.
The controls that mitigate those risks are partner was appointed in 2015 and will rotate off at the identified so that assurance can be provided on the end of the 2019 audit in accordance with this requirement.
effectiveness of those controls and a determination can be made as to whether the risk is operating within the Groups Any partner designated as a key audit partner of risk appetite.
We seek to embed a culture of risk awareness AngloAmerican shall not be employed by Anglo American into development of our strategic and operational objectives.
in a key management position unless a period of at least two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last The process for identification and assessment of the relevant audit.
Principal Risks combines a top down and bottom up approach.
At the operations level, a process to identify all The external auditors are required to assess periodically risks that prevent the achievement of objectives is being whether in their professional judgement they are introduced, building on our safety risk management independent of the Group.
Detailed analysis of the material risks at each The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors location is performed to ensure management understanding work is sufficient and that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
of the risk and controls that reduce likelihood of occurrence and impact should the risk materialise.
These operational risk The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making profiles contribute to the assessment of risks at the business recommendations to the Board on the appointment, unit level.
Executive management at each business unit re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
assess risks that threaten achievement of the business unit The Audit Committee has the authority to engage objectives and the status of controls, or actions, that mitigate independent counsel and other advisers as they determine those risks.
At the Group level, risks are identified through necessary to resolve issues on auditors independence.
assessment of global factors affecting the industry and the Group specifically, as well as the risks arising from the An annual assessment is undertaken of the business unit assessments.
Materiality of risk is determined auditors effectiveness.
80 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Governance through assessment of the various impacts that may arise controls associated with major technical risks, the results and likelihood of occurrence.
An exception relates to those ofwhich were shared with the Sustainability Committee risks deemed catastrophic in nature, where the focus of andAudit Committee.
assessment is on impact and status of internal controls, given In determining its opinion on the effectiveness of the internal the very low likelihood of occurrence.
When considering the control environment, the Audit Committee considered the impact of any risk, we assess financial, safety, environmental, following factors: legal or regulatory, social and reputation consequences.
the results of internal audit work, including the response The robust process of identifying and evaluating the Principal of management to completion of actions arising from Risks is ongoing and was in place during 2015.
Regular audit work reports on the status of risks and controls are presented toexecutive management teams throughout the year.
the output of risk management work TheAudit Committee reviews reports on the overall the output of external audit work and other AngloAmerican risk profile on two occasions during the assurance providers year and conducts in-depth reviews of specific risks during itsmeetings over the course of the year.
Each Principal issues identified by management or reported through Riskis assigned to either the Board or the relevant Board whistleblowing arrangements, and the results of Committees to oversee executive management actions in investigations into allegations of breaches of our values response to that risk.
The Audit Committee reviews that and business principles.
oversight process on an annual basis.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of risk Details of the Principal Risks are provided on pages 41-45. management and internal control The Board, through the Audit Committee, fulfils its Risk appetite responsibility in reviewing the effectiveness of the system We define risk appetite as the nature and extent of risk that of risk management and internal control through review of Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit of reports submitted over the course of the year covering the its objectives.
Each Principal Risk is assessed as to whether it risk management process, adequacy of the internal control is operating within the limit of appetite for the Group based on environment, consideration of risk appetite, in-depth reviews review of the external factors influencing that risk, the status of specific risks and the results of external audit work.
The of management actions to mitigate or control the risk and Sustainability Committee also reviews technical and safety the potential impact should the risk materialise.
For risks risks in detail and report its findings to the Board.
operating beyond the limit of appetite, a change in strategy may be required.
For risks operating within, but approaching Whistleblowing programme the limit of, appetite, specific management actions may be The Group has a whistleblowing facility operating in all its required to ensure the risk remains within the limit of appetite.
managed operations and a Group-wide stakeholder complaints and grievance procedure see the 2015 Risk Management and the system of Internal Control Sustainability Report for more details.
The whistleblowing Controls either reduce the likelihood or impact of any risk programme, which is monitored by the Audit Committee, once it has occurred and the identification of material is designed to enable employees, customers, suppliers, controls i. e. those controls that have the most influence in managers or other stakeholders to raise concerns on a mitigating a risk is an important input for audit planning.
confidential basis where conduct is deemed to be contrary The system of internal control operates on a traditional to our values.
three lines of defence approach, with operating During 2015 388 2014: 302 reports were received via the management implementing and monitoring controls on global Speak Up facility, covering a broad spectrum of a day-to-day basis, and business unit or functional concerns, including: management providing a second line of defence through regular and frequent oversight of operating managements ethical implementation of controls.
A centrally managed internal criminal audit department provides the third line of defence by reviewing design and operating effectiveness of the internal supplier relationships control environment, which includes the work performed by health and safety the first and second lines of defence management teams.
Internal audit operated in all of the Groups managed HR issues.
businesses in 2015, reporting its work to executive Reports received were anonymous to Anglo American.
management and the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Allreceived the appropriate attention and, where necessary The internal audit departments mandate and annual audit action was taken to address issues.
A governance process coverage plans were approved by the Audit Committee.
isin place to ensure all reports are acted upon in a timely The scope of internal audit work covers the broad spectrum manner and actions completed where necessary.
of risk that the Group is exposed to.
The audit of controls associated with major operating technical risks is undertaken in conjunction with relevant experts from the Technical and Sustainability function, and a programme was introduced during 2015 that strengthened the audit of Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 81
