Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction Chris Hopkinson will replace Bill as a member of the Audit Committee.
The Board considers that although the membership of the Audit Committee will continue to be in strict non-compliance with the independence provisions set out in the Code, the contribution of Chriss significant experience and knowledge should ensure that he makes a significant contribution to its work and that the Committee will continue to operate effectively.
Our risk management procedure was developed further during the year as the Groups existing risk management processes were enhanced and broadened.
Although it is the Board, supported by the Audit Committee, which remains ultimately responsible for establishing and maintaining risk management internal controls, the composition of our Risk Management Committee was expanded to reflect a multitude of skills and disciplines throughout the Group and it has been given the responsibility for ensuring the development, maintenance, operation and review of robust risk management controls to help support AOs strategic objectives and the achievement of its financial targets.
Further details of Richard Rose Chairman the role of this Committee can be found on page 52.
We are committed to maintaining an active dialogue with all our I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Statement for the shareholders.
More information on how we have strengthened our year ended 31 March 2015, our first full year as a listed company since Investor Relations function during the year can be found on page joining the London Stock Exchanges main market in March 2014.
Iwould like to encourage our shareholders to attend our Annual In my letter to you last year I reported that as a very recently listed General Meeting which will be held at 10.00 am on 21 July 2015 at company it had not been possible, or in some cases relevant, for us AO Park, 5A The Parklands, Lostock, Bolton B16 4SD.
It will provide to comply with all the provisions of The UK Corporate Governance an excellent opportunity to meet the Executive and Non-Executive Code 2012 the Code.
I am pleased to report that during the period Directors and to visit our head office.
under review we continued to strengthen the governance policies and processes to support the growth strategy of the Group.
The AO business has the principles of transparency and openness at the heart of its culture.
We recognise that strong Corporate During the year we completed our first evaluation exercise to review the Governance is crucial to our business and that sound structures performance of the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors.
and processes will support and enhance our performance for The exercise was facilitated internally by the Company Secretary the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Over the coming year we will under my direction.
I believe that regular and appropriate Board and continue to review and adapt our processes and procedures as Committee evaluation is an area which is fundamental to improving appropriate, in line with recent amendments made to the Code Board effectiveness and ensuring that our objectives can be met.
It also which will apply to our current financial year ending March 2016. ensures that the processes under which the Board operates remain Another of our future objectives will be to ensure that as the Group appropriate and effective, for example the quality and timeliness of the expands, our corporate policies are complied with in all the information received and the exposure to management.
Further details territories in which we operate.
of this review and its outcome are set out on page 51.
In conjunction with the evaluation exercise outlined above, during the Richard Rose year the composition of the Board and its Committees were reviewed Chairman to ensure that they continue to operate effectively and contain the AO World Plc correct mix of skills and experience to guide the Company through its next stage of development.
In February 2015 the composition of the Remuneration Committee was altered as Brian McBride, our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director succeeded Bill Holroyd, as Chair with Bill remaining a member of this Committee.
Having served as a Non-Executive Director for nearly 10 years, Bill Holroyd has decided to retire and will not be standing for reelection at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board thanks Bill for his significant contribution during his time with the Company, particularly through the IPO process in 2014, and wishes him well for the future.
Rudi Lamprecht will replace Bill as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The composition of this Committee and that of the full Board will comply with the independence requirements set out in the Code going forward.
The following pages set out how AO has applied the main principles of the Code and its compliance with the various provisions.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 44 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Introduction This Corporate Governance Statement explains key features of the Companys governance structure and how it complies with The UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council.
This Statement also includes items required by the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
Compliance with the Code The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the reporting period, complied with the provisions of the Code save as noted below: Code provision Detail Explanation of non-compliance B.
1.2 Less than half of the Board, excluding As the Board has three experienced independent Non-Executive the Chairman, are independent Directors the Board is satisfied that no individual has dominated its Non-Executive Directors.
decision taking, no undue reliance has been placed on particular individuals, there has been sufficient challenge of executive management in meetings of the Board and the Board has operated effectively.
The composition of the Board will be continually reviewed to ensure it remains effective.
2.1 The Nomination Committee does not Only Brian McBride is independent and while the Chairman of the comprise a majority of independent Company was considered to be independent on appointment, Non-Executive Directors.
the Code provides that thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
However, the Board considers that it has a strong independent non-executive component and that the continuity, experience and knowledge of Chris Hopkinson and Richard Rose ensured that they made a significant contribution to the work of the Committee over the period under review.
The composition of the Committee will be continually reviewed to ensure it remains effective.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees Bill Holroyd is not considered to be independent for the purposes do not comprise three independent of the Code.
The Board considers that the composition of both the Non-Executive Directors.
Audit and Remuneration Committees have a strong independent non-executive component and that the continuity, experience and knowledge of Bill Holroyd ensured that he made a significant contribution to the work of the Committees and that the Committees ran effectively over the period under review.
The composition of the Committees will be continually reviewed to ensure they remain effective.
As noted in the Chairmans introduction, Mr Holroyd will not offer himself for re-election as a Director at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
Rudi Lamprecht will replace him as a member of the Remuneration Committee and as a result, going forward, the Company will meet the independence requirements as to the composition of the Board and Remuneration Committee set out in the Code B.
Chris Hopkinson will replace Bill Holroyd as a member of the Audit Committee.
The Listing Rules require that we state how we have applied the Main Principles set out in The UK Corporate Governance Code.
This information is set out on our website at www.
com corporate and the required detail on specific Code provisions is set out in this Corporate Governance Statement.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45
