Corporate Governance Report Leadership How the Board and its Committees operate Antofagasta plc Board Board Committees The Board Sustainability Nomination Remuneration and Audit and Risk and Projects and Talent The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of Stakeholder Committee Governance Committee Management Management the Group.
It is responsible for its leadership and strategic direction, Committee Committee Committee and for the oversight of the Groups performance, risk and internal control systems.
Key responsibilities include: Board committees responsibility for the overall strategic management ofthe Group: The Board is assisted in the fulfilment of its responsibilities by the five Board Committees above.
The Board has delegated authority changes to the capital, corporate structure, seniormanagement to the Committees to perform certain activities as set out in their and control structure: terms of reference.
approval of preliminary announcements, financial reports, dividend The Chairman of each committee reports to the Board following policy and proposals, and significant changes in accounting each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and policies or practices: discuss matters considered in detail by the Committee and or ensuring a sound system of internal control and riskmanagement adopt recommendations.
and determining the nature and extent ofprincipal risks that the Terms of reference of the Projects Committee were adopted in Group is willing to take in achieving itsstrategic objectives: August 2015 and the terms of reference for each Committee were approving material contracts and transactions: amended in 2015 and are available on the Companys website atwww.
reviewing and approving changes to the Boards structure, size A summary of the activities of each of the committees during the and composition, ensuring adequate succession planning for the yearissetout on pages 85 to 96.
Board, approving appointments to the boards of key subsidiaries and the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary: recommending the appointment, re-appointment or removal of Group CEO the external auditor to shareholders for approval, following the recommendation of the Audit andRisk Committee: Group CEO and the Executive Committee submitting the Directors Remuneration Policy to shareholders forapproval and approving the Directors remuneration: The Board has delegated responsibility for implementing the Groups strategic and financial objectives to Diego Hernndez.
appointing and delegating authority to the Group CEO and Mr Hernndez leads the teams with executive responsibility for ensuring that there is adequate succession planning for the running the Groups businesses.
GroupCEO and senior management: Mr Hernndez is not a Director of Antofagasta plc but is invited reviewing the Groups overall corporate governance to attend Board, Audit and Risk, Sustainability and Stakeholder arrangements, receiving reports of the views of the Companys Management, Projects and Remuneration and Talent Management shareholders, undertaking a formal and rigorous annual review Committee meetings.
of its own performance, as well as that of the Committees and individual Directors, determining the independence of Directors, The mining division is managed by the Antofagasta Minerals receiving declarations of interest from Directors and authorising Executive Committee under the leadership of Ivn Arriagada, any Directors conflict of interest: theCEO of Antofagasta Minerals.
Details of the members of the Executive Committee are set out approving key corporate policies and the schedule of matters onpages77and 78. reserved for the Board: and The Executive Committee reviews significant matters in respect establishing Committees of the Board that provide assistance ofthe mining division and approves capital expenditures by the onany of the matters set out above.
mining operations and the corporate centre within designated authority levels, leads the annual budgeting and planning processes, Matters which are required to be decided by the Board are set out monitors the performance of the mining operations, and promotes inthe schedule of matters reserved for the Board which is available the sharing of best practices and policies across the operations.
on the Companys website at www.
A summary of the activities of the Board during the year is set out The Executive Committee is assisted in the performance of onpage81.
its responsibilities by the Operational Performance Review Committee, the Business Development Committee and certain Steering Committees set up to oversee important projects.
The responsibilities of these Committees is set out opposite.
Members of the Executive Committee also sit on the boards of the Groups operating companies and periodically report to MrHernndez and the Executive Committee on the activities ofthose companies.
Committee roles at the executive level are set out in the Executive Committee biographies on pages 77 and 78.
72 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Antofagasta plc Board Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Projects Remuneration Committee and and Committee and Talent Pages 86 to 89 Governance Stakeholder Pages 95 and 96 Management Committee Management Committee Pages 90 to 92 Committee Pages 96 to 111 Pages 93 and 94 Group CEO Mining Transport Antofagasta Minerals Executive Committee Pages 77 and 78 OP BD S Operational Business Steering Performance Development Committees Review Committee Committee The Operational Performance Review The Business Development The Executive Committee sets up Committee monitors the Groups Committee focuses on the mining Steering Committees to monitor operations, with a focus on budgets, divisions growth opportunities, both the implementation of important operational risks and investments.
in relation to internal projects and projects undertaken by the Group, It supports and validates technical potential transactions.
It also oversees both in the execution and study and operational decisions and is the implementation of the strategic phases.
The Steering Committees responsible for approving operational business development guidelines aregenerally responsible for expenditures within approved budgets and reviews and approves decisions approvingtechnical and strategic and small capital expenditures up to regarding the portfolio of development project decisions, as well as approving aset amount.
in light of those strategic guidelines certain expenditures within approved and within the approved budget and budgets and up toaset amount.
Antofagasta plc 73 Corporate Governance Report Leadership Board of Directors 6 2 7 3 4 10 8 9 1 5 11 1 Jean-Paul Luksic Key to Committees 2 William Hayes 3 Gonzalo Menndez Audit and Risk Nomination and Governance 4 Ramn Jara 5 Juan Claro Sustainability and Projects 6 Hugo Dryland Stakeholder Management 7 Tim Baker Remuneration and 8 O llie Oliveira Talent Management 9 Andrnico Luksic 10 Vivianne Blanlot Key areas of expertise 11 Jorge Bande Mining Sustainability Financial Government Relations Industry Energy Legal 74 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairman Chairman 1 Jean-Paul Luksic 4 Ramn Jara Chairman, 51 NonExecutive Director, 62 Independent: No Independent: No The Company is controlled by foundations in which members of the Luksic family Provides advisory services to the Group.
Non-Executive Director of Quienco Appointed to the Board 2003 and other companies in the Quienco group in common with Andrnico Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez.
Quienco is also controlledby foundations in which members Lawyer with wide-ranging legal and commercial experience in Chile.
of the Luksic family are interested.
Current positions: Appointed to the Board 1990 Chairman of the Fundacin Minera Los Pelambres charitable foundation Appointed Chairman 2004 Non-Executive since September 2014.
Director of the Fundacin Andrnico Luksic A. charitable foundation Over 20 years experience with Antofagasta, including responsibility for overseeing development of the Los Pelambres and El Tesoro Centinela Cathodes mines.
Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals 5 Juan Claro Current positions: NonExecutive Director, 65 Chairman of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing the largest Independent: No mining companies operating in Chile Non-Executive Director of Quienco S. A. and other listed companies in the Served on the Board for more than nine years concurrently with the Chairman Quienco group: Banco fide Chile and Sociedad Matriz SAAM S. A. whenhe was performing the role of Executive Chairman.
Appointed to the Board 2005 Chairman Extensive industrial experience in Chile, including an active role representing Chilean industrial interests nationally and internationally.
2 William Hayes Previous roles: Chairman of the Sociedad fide Fomento Fabril Chilean Society of Industrialists Senior Independent Director, 71 Chairman of the Confederacin fide la Produccin y del Comercio Confederationof Chilean Business Independent: Yes Chairman of the Consejo Binacional fide Negocios Chile-China Appointed to the Board 2006 Council for Bilateral Business Chile-China Extensive financial and operational experience in the copper and gold mining Current positions: industries in Chile, Latin America, North America and South Africa.
Chairman of Coca-Cola Andina S. A. and Energa Coyanco S. A.
Previous roles: Director of several other companies in Chile, including Entel Chile S. A. Empresas Cementos Melon and Agrosuper Senior executive with Placer Dome Inc. Chairman of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing the largest Member of the governing board of Centro fide Estudios Pblicos, a Chilean not-for-profit foundation mining companies operating in Chile Chairman of the Gold Institute in Washington DC Current positions: Chairman of Royal Gold Inc 6 Hugo Dryland NonExecutive Director, 60 Independent: No 3 Gonzalo Menndez Provides advisory services to the Group in his capacity as a Vice-Chairman atRothschild, which is a financial advisor to the Group.
NonExecutive Director, 67 Independent: No Appointed to the Board 2011 Non-Executive Director of Quienco and other companies in the Quienco group in Lawyer with extensive expertise in corporate finance and M&A within the mining common with Jean-Paul Luksic and Andrnico Luksic.
Quienco is also controlled sector, with over 25 years of investment banking experience in natural resources byfoundations in which the Luksic family are interested.
Appointed to the Board 1985 Previous roles: Qualified accountant with extensive experience in commercial and financial Practising lawyer in the United States, specialising in the natural resources businesses across Latin America.
andinfrastructure sectors Lawyer assigned to the energy group at the World Bank Current positions: Current positions: Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Latinoamericano fide Comercio Exterior S. A. Bladex Executive Vice-Chairman of NM Rothschild & Sons Director of Quienco S. A. and other listed companies in the Quienco group, Global head of Rothschilds investment banking activities in the mining including Banco fide Chile andmetals sector Antofagasta plc 75 Corporate Governance Report Leadership Board of Directors Chairman 7 Tim Baker 10 Vivianne Blanlot NonExecutive Director, 63 NonExecutive Director, 61 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Appointed to the Board 2011 Appointed to the Board 2014 Geologist with significant mining operational experience across North and An economist with extensive experience across the energy, mining, SouthAmerica and Africa which has included managing mining operations in Chile,  sectors in the public and private sectors in Chile.
the United States, Tanzania and Venezuela and geological and operating roles in Previous roles: Kenya and Liberia.
Executive Director of the Comisin Nacional fide Medio Ambiente Previous roles: EnvironmentalAgency in Chile Vice President and Chief Operating Officer at Kinross Gold Corporation Undersecretary of Comisin Nacional fide Energa General Manager of Placer Dome Chile National Energy Commissionin Chile Minister of Defence Current positions: Current positions: Chairman of Golden Star Resources Director of Sherritt International Corporation Director of Colbn S. A. an energy company listed in Chile Director of ScotiaBank Chile Member of the Consejo Para La Transparencia Transparency Council, theChilean body responsible for enforcing transparency in the public sector Chairman 8 M anuel Lino Silva fide SousaOliveira Ollie Oliveira NonExecutive Director, 64 11 Jorge Bande Independent: Yes NonExecutive Director, 63 Appointed to the Board 2011 Chartered accountant, chartered management accountant and economist with Independent: Yes over 35 years of strategic and operational experience in the mining industry and Appointed to the Board 2014 corporate finance.
Economist with over 30 years experience in the mining industry.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Senior executive positions within the Anglo American group, including Executive Director Corporate Finance and Head of Strategy and Business Development Co-founder and Executive Director of Copper and Mining Studies CESCO, anindependent not-for-profit think tank focused on mining policy issues ofDe Beers S. A.
Vice President of Development and later Director of Codelco CEO of AMP Chile Advisor to the World Bank Member of the Global Agenda Council for Responsible Minerals Resource Management at the World Economic Forum Director of Edelnor S. A. and Electroandina S. A. now E-CL S. A.
9 Andrnico Luksic Current positions: NonExecutive Director, 61 Director of CESCO, Inversiones Aguas Metropolitanas S. A. and Bupa Chile S. A.
Independent: No Professor of the International Post-Graduate Programme in Mineral Economics The Company is controlled by foundations in which the Luksic family are interested.
atthe University of Chile Brother of Jean-Paul Luksic.
Chairman of Quienco and Chairman or Director of Member of the Experts Committee for Copper Prices for the Chilean Ministry other companies in the Quienco group, in common with Jean-Paul Luksic and of Finance Gonzalo Menndez.
Quienco is also controlled by foundations in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
Appointed to the Board 2013 Extensive experience across a range of business sectors throughout Chile, LatinAmerica and Europe.
Current positions: Chairman of Quienco S. A. and Compaa Cerveceras Unidas S. A. Vice-Chairman of Banco fide Chile and a director of Tech Pack S. A. all of which are listed companies in the Quienco group Director of Nexans S. A. a company listed on NYSE Euronext Paris 76 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Corporate Governance Report Leadership Executive Committee 1 4 7 Key to Committees Operational Performance OP Review Committee Business Development BD Committee E Ethics Committee 2 5 8 3 6 9 Chairman BD BD 1 Diego Hernndez 2 Ivn Arriagada Group CEO CEO of Antofagasta Minerals Joined the Group in 2012 Joined the Group in 2015 Mining engineer with over 40 years of senior management experience with major Commercial engineer and economist with over 20 years experience in the mining, international mining companies with operations in Latin America.
metalsand oil and gas sectors.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals Chief Financial Officer of Codelco Chief Executive Officer of Codelco Various positions at BHP Billiton, including President of Pampa Norte President of BHP Billiton Base Metals division SpenceandCerro Colorado, Vice President Operations and Chief Financial Executive Director of Vale do Rio Doce Officer of the Base Metals division Chief Executive Officer of Compaa Minera Doa Ins fide Collahuasi S. C. M. Over 15 years of international experience with Shell, in Chile, the United Kingdom, Chief Executive Officer of Empresa Minera fide Mantos Blancos S. A. Argentina and the United States Various senior positions within the Anglo American group in Chile and withtheRio Tinto group in Brazil Other information: BD E Named 2010 Copper Man of the Year by the Copper Club, New York, and received 3 Alfredo Atucha a gold medal award from the Chilean Institute of Engineers in 2013 in recognition ofhis contribution to the development of engineering in Chile.
Mr Hernndez Vice President of Finance and Administration and CFO isalsoVice President of SONAMI, the Chilean Mining Society.
Joined the Group in 2013 Accountant and economist with over 30 years of financial experience in the mining, metals, energy and FMCG sectors.
Previous roles: 10 years service at BHP Billiton as Vice President of Finance for MineraEscondida and Senior Manager of Base Metals Major Projects Finance and Administration Manager at Chilquinta Energa part of Sempra Energy and PSG Group CFO at Reckitt Benckiser in Spain, Brazil and Chile Tax Planning and Treasury at British American Tobacco Antofagasta plc 77 Corporate Governance Report Leadership Executive Committee E E 4 Patricio Enei 7 Ana Mara Rabagliati Vice President of Legal Vice President of Human Resources Joined the Group in 2014 Joined the Group in 2013 Lawyer with over 20 years experience in mining, including roles at some Human resources specialist with more than 25 years experience in international ofthelargest international copper companies operating in Chile.
companies across a range of sectors, including financial services, industrials and oiland gas.
Previous roles: Previous roles: General Counsel at Codelco Corporate Affairs Manager of Minera Escondida Corporate Human Resources Manager at Masisa Senior Lawyer at BHP Billiton in Chile Country Human Resources Vice President at Citigroup Chief Legal Counsel at Minera Doa Ins fide Collahuasi Human Resources Manager at the Lafarge Group in Chile Lawyer at the Instituto fide Normalizacin Previsional and in private practice Various positions across several divisions and areas at Shell, including HumanResources Manager at the Lubricants Business of Shell Oil Latin America BD 5 Andrnico Luksic L. 8 Gonzalo Snchez Vice President of Development Vice President of Sales Joined the Group in 2006 Joined the Group in 1996 Business administrator with broad mining experience in sales, exploration, Civil engineer with over 25 years experience in the marketing development and general management.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Corporate Manager at Antofagasta Minerals Director, Antofagasta Minerals Toronto Office Deputy Commercial Director, Antofagasta Minerals Various positions at Banco fide Chile Copper sales at Codelco OP 6 Hernn Menares 9 Francisco Veloso Vice President of Operations Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Joined the Group in 2008 Joined the Group in 1993 Civil mining engineer and mineral economist, with 30 years experience Lawyer with over 20 years experience with Antofagasta Minerals, inthemining and metals sectors.
including oversight of critical phases of development at Los Pelambres.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Project Development Manager for the Centinela District Vice President of Legal and Corporate Affairs at Antofagasta Minerals Operational and business planning roles at Codelco Vice President of Human Resources at Antofagasta Minerals Various positions at Compaa Minera del Pacfico and Compaa Minera General Counsel at Los Pelambres Huasco S. A.
Legal Manager at VTR Chief lawyer at Michilla For full biographies of the management team visit: www.
co. uk about-us leadership senior-management 78 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
