Corporate Governance Report Further details on the Groups talent management and succession planning initiatives are set out in the Remuneration Report on page97.
We believe that good corporate governance is fundamental to our success and I believe that we are in a strong position not only to face the current challenges that I identified in my introductory letter on page 5 but to continue to refine and execute our strategy to secure long-term growth and profitability.
Engaging with our shareholders During 2015 I met with a number of our shareholders to hear their views about our Company, its strategy, management and governance.
During these meetings we discussed a wide range of topics.
These included how they used proxy voting agencies recommendations, board composition and diversity, the categorisation of independence for a Director, talent management and succession planning, the application of the comply and explain principle and aligning executive remuneration with strategy.
These meetings allowed me to explain the changes to the Boards structure in 2014, to update shareholders on progress following these Leadership changes and to understand how corporate governance developments How the Board and its committees operate.
are likely to assist us in the years ahead.
For more information see pages 72 to 78.
Once again, our Senior Independent Director, William Hayes, met with a number of shareholders to develop a balanced understanding Effectiveness of their issues and concerns.
Further details of these meetings are How the Board is balanced, how and what information setout on page 113. flows through it and performance in 2015.
Remuneration For more information see pages 79 to 84.
Following the recent wave of changes to Executive remuneration reporting legislation and guidance, the Remuneration and Talent Accountability Committee, led by its Chairman, Tim Baker, commissioned an How the Board and its committees oversee the internal review of the effectiveness of the Groups Executive pay arrangements, including the impact of safety performance on Companys position and prospects and assess risk.
As part of this review, Tim Baker met with a number For more information see pages 85 to 96. of industry and other FTSE 100 Remuneration Committee Chairmen in London to share and learn from their experiences.
The changes Remuneration that we have made to Executive incentives as a consequence of this How the Board and its committees ensure that review are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 111.
We have once again voluntarily reported on the remuneration and executive pay is aligned with performance, strategy incentive pay design for Diego Hernndez as if he was a member and the interests of shareholders.
For more information see pages 96 to 111.
Our first full year of Corporate Governance Code compliance Relations with shareholders In 2014 we changed many of our internal control and governance How the Board, its committees and the Company structures, processes and procedures in order to benefit from what we perceived to be sensible and beneficial governance practice.
engage with shareholders and potential investors.
As a result, we are delighted to report that for the first time we have For more information see pages 112 and 113. complied with all the detailed provisions of the Corporate Governance 1 Code during 2015.
Dear Shareholder, 1 T he UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the Code available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
uk I am pleased to present the Antofagasta plc Corporate Governance sets out the governance principles and provisions that applied to the Company during the2015financial year.
Report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Nomination and Governance Committee One of my key responsibilities as Chairman is to promote good corporate governance and we have taken great strides in recent years As part of these changes we decided to improve our focus on to enhance our internal control and governance structures, processes governance and the Nomination Committee became the Nomination and procedures.
We have worked hard to ensure that we have the and Governance Committee, with responsibility for monitoring right people performing the right roles to shape the Groups strategy and recommending improvements to the Boards governance and to drive, probe and report on its implementation.
The Committee has been instrumental in helping invested in talent management and succession planning and now theBoard further develop its governance framework which includes have a strong pipeline of talent at various stages of development a clear description of matters reserved for the Board, terms of to fill these roles in the future.
reference for Board Committees and specific responsibilities oftheChairman, Group CEO and Senior Independent Director.
70 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Leveraging this framework in 2015, the Committee reviewed Substantial shareholdings policies and procedures relating to diversity, succession planning As at 31 December 2015 and 14 March 2016, the following and UK market obligations.
The Committee will continue to focus on significant holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the succession planning at Board level to ensure that our Committees Company had been disclosed to the Company under Disclosure continue to be appropriately staffed and that we continue to maintain andTransparency Rule 5: a strong and committed Board with broad and complementary skills and experiences.
More detail on the activities of the Nomination and Substantial shareholdings Governance Committee during the year can be found on pages 90 to 92.
1 Board performance evaluation 1 Improving performance is a continuous process.
Last year, we reported on the steps taken since our first external evaluation of 1 the Board in 2013 and demonstrated that steady and significant progress had been made to implement the recommendations.
This improvement was supported by the results of a separate internal evaluation exercise in 2014, the findings of which were also used to prioritise areas for improvement in an action plan for 2015.
In 2015, we focused on those priorities and improvement was once again 3 supported by the results of a separate internal review.
2 Following the demonstrated improvements arising from the recommendations made in the 2013 external review, we have once 3 again commissioned an external review in 2016.
More details on the 2015 internal review and scope of the 2016 external review can be 2 found on page 84.
Ordinary Preference Total share Sustainability and community engagement share capital share capital capital % % % At the operations level, it is essential that we are, and continue to 1 Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 be, a good neighbour.
As explained in the Managing a sustainable business section of the Strategic Report on page 59, Minera Los 2 Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 Pelambres is located in the Choapa River valley in the central region 3 Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 of Chile and our recently launched Somos Choapa WeAre Choapa Programme sets up forums for the Company, communities Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation Abaroa, and authorities to discuss social and other needs and transform them in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
into plans for everyones benefit.
This programme has demonstrated As explained in Note 38 to the financial statements, Metalinvest the power of constructive dialogue and offers fresh perspectives on Establishment is the immediate Parent Company of the Group working with our neighbours and jointly developing our communities.
and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the ultimate Parent Company.
The implementation of this programme was overseen by the Aureberg Establishment is controlled by the Severe Studere Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee and more Foundation that, in turn, is controlled by Jean-Paul Luksic, the detail is set out in the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Chairman of the Company.
Relationship agreement Key objectives for 2016 Abaroa is a controlling shareholder of the Company under the One of the keys to good communication between management Listing Rules and certain other shareholders of the Company and the Board is an effective relationship between the Chairman including Aureberg Establishment, are also treated as and Chief Executive.
This is something that Diego and I have controlling shareholders.
achieved during our first full year as Non-Executive Chairman and In 2014 the Company entered into relationship agreements Group CEO.
In 2016 the Board and I plan to continue to focus on with each controlling shareholder, which contain the mandatory strengthening the interface between the Board and its Committees independence provisions required by the Listing Rules.
and management to ensure that the Groups strategy continues The Company has complied and, so far as the Directors are aware, tobeimplemented effectively.
each controlling shareholder and its associates have complied with the mandatory independence provisions at all times during 2015.
Open to questions In the following pages, we outline our approach to corporate The Group has had a controlling shareholder since 1980.
As a practical matter, the Board agreed some years ago that any governance and demonstrate how our governance practices support proposed transaction between the Company and any controlling this approach.
This year our reporting follows the order of the main shareholder or its associates that is not in the ordinary course of principles of the Corporate Governance Code.
business must be presented to the Board regardless of its size.
As always, I welcome questions or comments from shareholders Although infrequent, these transactions are considered, and either via our website www.
co. uk or in person at the if appropriate, approved by a committee of Directors who are Annual General Meeting.
independent from the controlling shareholder.
Details of the Companys capital structure and Directors authority to issueand buyback shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Report onpage 115.
Jean-Paul Luksic Chairman Antofagasta plc 71
