Business model Key relationships The Group cannot run its business in isolation.
The business model is underpinned by a series of relationships with stakeholders at local, regional, national and international level, which contribute to the long-term success of the Group.
The Group forms long-term partnerships with some suppliers, while others are managed with a more short-term focus based on market competition.
Customers Similarly, the Groups molybdenum contracts are made under long-term Most of the copper and molybdenum sales framework agreements, with pricing The Groups marketing are made under annual contracts or longerusuallybased on Platts average prices.
term framework agreements, with sales team builds long-term volumes agreed for the coming year.
Across the industry neither copper relationships with core producers nor consumers tend to make The majority of sales are to industrial customers, while maintaining annual commitments for 100% of their customers who refine or further process respective production or needs.
Therefore, relationships with trading the copper smelters, in the case of producers normally retain a portion to be copper concentrate production, and companies that participate sold on the spot market throughout the year.
copper fabricators in the case of cathode in shorter-term sales.
The Groups marketing The prices realised by the Group during team builds long-term relationships with a specific period will differ from the these core customers, while maintaining average market price for that period.
This is relationships with trading companies that because, in line with industry practice, sales participate in shorter-term sales.
agreements generally provide for provisional pricing at the time of shipment, with final Over 80% of the Groups mining sales are pricing based on the average market under contracts of a year or longer and price for the month in which settlement metals sales pricing is generally based takes place.
For copper concentrate, sales remain Structure of the Groups sales contracts open until settlement occurs, on average The Groups sales contracts typically set three to five months from the shipment out the annual volumes to be supplied and date.
Settlement for the gold and silver the main terms for the sale of each payable content in copper concentrate sales occurs metal, with the pricing of the contained approximately one month from shipment.
copper in line with LME prices.
In the case Copper cathode sales remain open for of concentrate, a deduction is made from an average of one month from shipment.
LME prices to reflect TC RCs the smelting Settlement for copper in concentrate sales and refining costs necessary to process is later than for copper cathode sales since the concentrate into copper cathodes.
further refinement of copper in concentrate These TC RCs are typically determined is needed before sale.
Molybdenum sales annually and in line with terms negotiated generally remain open for two or three across the concentrate market.
A significant proportion of the Groups copper cathode sales are made under annual contracts, priced in line with LME prices.
In copper cathode transactions, a premium, or in some cases a discount, on the LME price is negotiated to reflect differences in quality, logistics and financing compared with the metal exchanges standard copper contract specifications.
22 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS Suppliers Relationships with trade unions are based on mutual respect and transparency.
Suppliers play a critical role in the Groups This helps the Group to retain employees ability to operate, supplying a large range of and avoid labour disputes, contributing products and services from grinding media to greater productivity and business to catering at the mine sites.
During 2014, the Group renewed More information on key inputs is included labour agreements at all of its then mining onpages19 to 21. operations, except Zaldvar, ensuring stability The Group currently conducts business until 2018. with over 5,000 suppliers and is working The Group undertakes an annual survey with the top suppliers in each category toassess employee satisfaction.
Based to ensure the most cost-effective and on the results, action is taken to improve efficient solutions are employed across thework environment.
The corporate procurement team has consolidated all procurement More on Employees on pages 61 to 63. practices across the operations and Contractors projects.
In addition, the team has reduced the number of suppliers to extract greater The number of contractors working for benefits from elected suppliers over a long Antofagasta varies according to business period of time.
The Group has identified 300 needs and the level of construction activity.
categories across all its mining operations As at 31 December 2015, there were and construction projects and is negotiating approximately 13,900 contractors working with its suppliers on each of these.
at the Groups operations and projects.
Contractors are vitally This strategic approach will allow the Group This was some 30% lower than the to extract greater benefits from its suppliers important to mining operations same time last year, principally due to over a long period of time.
For example, the the completion of construction of the and the Group aims to build Group may develop long-term partnerships Antucoya project.
with some suppliers, while others are long-term relationships with managed with a more short-term focus Contractors are vitally important to mining contractor companies based based on market competition.
operations and the Group aims to build on the highest standards.
long-term relationships with contractor The Group has an open-door policy that companies based on the highest standards.
encourages suppliers to raise any issues Safety and health targets are included in orconcerns.
Suppliers are audited regularly performance contracts and compliance to ensure compliance with the law and withsafety and human rights laws and Company standards, particularly concerning labour regulations are assessed regularly safety and health and the environment.
Given the sensitive market conditions for The minimum wage paid by Antofagasta suppliers, emphasis has been placed on Minerals to contractor employees is monitoring the suppliers financial health and 70% higher than that required by Chilean ensuring bank guarantees are in place when law, andcontractor staff have access to deemed necessary.
the same facilities as the Groups own employees at the mine camps.
Employees The Group employs approximately 5,300 people, who work alongside approximately 13,900 contractors at its corporate offices, operations and projects.
Mining is inherently risky and ensuring the safety and health of every employee is an absolute priority.
It is an ethical obligation and is central to the Groups strategic objectives.
The Group has created a variety of initiatives over the last few years to secure and develop talent.
In particular, the Group seeks to attract young professionals into the mining industry and complement their work experience with workshops and seminars across different functional areas.
Antofagasta plc 23 Business model Key relationships 1 19,200 The number of employees and contractors working across the Groups operations.
Local communities Other local stakeholders It is crucial to have strong relationships built Positive relationships with all local Having clear social policies on trust and mutual understanding with stakeholders near the Groups operations local communities in the areas where the and projects are fundamental to the and regular contact with Group operates as it is not possible to run a smooth operation of the business and community members helps mine successfully without their co-operation itsfuture growth.
to manage potential conflicts All of the Groups operations appoint a and maintains the Groups Having clear social policies and regular manager to oversee relationships with contact with community members helps external stakeholders such as the local social licence to operate.
tomanage potential conflicts and maintains authorities, local media and others.
the Groups social licence to operate.
Government and public authorities During 2014, Los Pelambres adopted a new approach to engagement with Political developments and changes communities.
The initiative is called Somos to legislation or regulations can affect Choapa We Are Choapa, the region in business, whether in Chile, the UK, or which Los Pelambres is located.
In 2015, other countries where the Group has the Group signed a framework agreement operations, development projects or with three municipalities under the Somos exploration activities.
Choapas initiative, and has begun assessing New and proposed legislation is monitored a portfolio of projects for sustainable to enable the Group to anticipate, mitigate development in the region.
or reduce possible effects, and to ensure More information on this is provided it complies with all legal and regulatory on pages 59 and 60. obligations.
The Group works with industry bodies to engage with governments on public policy, laws, regulations and procedures that may affect its business, including such issues as climate change and energy security.
The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, including the nature of existing foreign investment agreements.
It also monitors political, legal and regulatory developments affecting its operations and projects, and utilises internal and external legal expertise to ensure its rights are protected.
1 Excludes employees and contractors at joint ventures.
24 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
