46 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Governance Embedding good governance intoeverything we do Philip Davis At ARM, we strive to embed good governance The executive and non-executive directors have For more information see our Company Secretary practice into everything we do: from the way Governance and Financials report: well dened roles.
Their combined contributions to iin w n whi hic ch o h ou ur r lliice cen ns siin ng g t te ea am m interacts with our the healthily diverse Board add value to the debate, Leadership Page 8 e ec co os sy ys st te em P m Pa ar rt tn ne er rs s, t, to o t th he manner in which the decision making and strategy development which is Effectiveness Page 10 B Bo oa ard o rd off d diir re ec ct to or rs f s fu un nc ct tiio ons.
A fundamental part crucial to the Groups success.
ARMs Board has the Accountability Page 12 o off t th he w e wa ay y we d we do o b bu us siin ne es ss s is embedding the Main breadth and depth of experience necessary to guide Our values Page 3 P Pr riin nc ciip plle es s o off t th he U e UK K C Co or rp porate Governance Code the Group as it seeks to take full advantage of new Relations with shareholders Page 16 t the he Code Code and and e em mb br ra acing ci best practice across opportunities and contend with new challenges.
Remuneration Page 25 a alll p l pa ar rt ts o s off o ou ur o r or rg ga an niisa sat tiio on.
The changes in 2015 to the Board and its Fo For r g gove over rn na an nc ce to h e to ha ave m five me eaning and value beyond Committees are outlined in the Chairmans We have created the annual report as two m me er re co e com mp plliia an nce w ce wiit th h co cod fide es and regulations, it has introduction on page3 of the Governance and documents.
The Strategic Report contains an to t to tr ra an ns slla at te i e in nto p to pr ra ac ct tiic ca al a l ap pplication.
update on ARMs progress during the year and o our ur p peo eop plle e to h to ha ave a cl five a cle ea ar r v view of the culture and information about the markets in which we operate b beha ehav viiour ours s t that hat A ARM RM e enc nco ourages, and to understand During the year, the Board reviewed executive and our strategic plans alongside summary financial h ho ow t w th he eiir r i in nd diiv viid dua uall a an nd co d collective actions contribute and senior management succession plans to ensure results, as well as an outline of our approach to to A to AR RM Ms s s suc ucce ces ss s.. that they are sufficiently robust and provide a governance and risk management.
The separate strong pipeline of future executives who can Governance and Financial Report provides more T Th he B e Bo oa ar rd i d is s ke kee en nlly y aw awa ar re e of its responsibility to continue to deliver ARMs strategic objectives.
detail on our governance arrangements and our p pr ro ov vide ide l leader eadership ship, o, oper pera at te e with transparency The Nomination Committee will continue to review financial statements.
a an nd p d pr ro om mo ot te e e et th hiic ca al b l be eh ha av viour and collaboration the experience and expertise of the directors as t th hr ro ou ug gh ho ou ut t t th he G e Gr ro ou up.
T p. Th hiis year is the first in which part of its responsibility to monitor and maintain Leadership we a we ar re r e re eq qu uiire red d to re to rep po or rt t against the updated 2014 aneffective Board.
Effective leadership starts with an effective board C Co od fide e, a, an nd we h d we ha ave t five ta ake ken t n th he opportunity to align of directors.
ARM operates in a fast-paced and o our ur C Co or rp por ora at te G e Go ove ver rn na an nce Re ce port more closely Our diversity policy and more detail of the uid industry, and the composition of our Board is w wiit th h t th he M e Ma aiin n P Pr riin nci cip plles es of t of he Code.
Nomination Committees work on diversity can be an essential component for successful leadership.
found on pages 23 and 24 of the Governance and We regularly review the Boards composition to Financial Report.
ensure that we are well-positioned for now and in the future.
The current composition of our Board reects a strong balance between technology sector, commercial, financial and general business skills, with a highly experienced international team leading the business in both executive and non-executive roles.
ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 47 Diversity of new hires Diversity of the Group Diversity of managers Diversity of the Board Men 81% Men 83% Men 87% Men 80% Women 19% Women 17% Women 13% Women 20% Effectiveness Accountability Our values Relations with shareholders The Board sets the Groups long-term strategy, and Maintaining a governance framework which is t ARMs strength is in the high calibre of its people, The Board makes considerable efforts to establish monitors, challenges and supports the Executive for purpose is a continuous task.
We have taken a and in the way in which they behave: fairly, honestly and maintain good relationships with shareholders Committee in delivering that strategy.
risk-based approach to reviewing our committee and with integrity.
We ask all our employees to and the wider investment community.
There is structures to ensure that our framework is neither embody ARMs three core beliefs encouraging regular dialogue with institutional investors during During 2015 we built on the work undertaken in too onerous nor too light touch.
As our business teamwork, driving innovation and creativity and the year, except during close periods.
2014 that dened our short-term and long-term continues to evolve, so will our governance helping everyone within the Group to reach their strategic priorities.
We held two strategy-focused framework.
ARM uses the ARM Management full potential.
The main channel of communication continues to meetings in 2015.
The Board considered how best System to document the details of our governance be through the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief to increase growth in our core markets, how to framework and records our approach to assurance Each year all employees are required to confirm that Financial Officer and the VP of Investor Relations.
accelerate share gains in new markets, and which in every aspect of ARMs business.
they have read and understood the Groups Code The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director emerging technologies will be the cornerstone of of Business Conduct and Ethics, which includes our and the other directors are available to engage in ARMs future success and long-term growth.
We currently have five governance review teams Human Rights Policy.
We also ensure that employees dialogue with major shareholders as appropriate.
covering our key operational business risks: customer receive regular training on relevant legislation Page 9 of the Governance and Financial Report satisfaction, health, safety and environment, business such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and global The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for summarise the Boards activities during 2015, continuity, security and project management.
private investors to attend and ask questions of the evidencing how our directors discharged their These teams arecomprised of personnel from directors.
Contact details for our investor relations leadership responsibilities and developed across our engineering and corporate functions and Our sustainability values are of great importance team can be found on the back cover of this report.
each team meets regularly to review and monitor to the way in which we work.
Full details of our CR the issues within its remit.
strategy and achievements can be found in the main In accordance with the Code, the Board undertakes CR report, which is available on ARMs website, and a review of its effectiveness each year and reports Matters deemed worthy of further scrutiny are a summary of highlights from the year are included in on the results.
This year, we conducted an escalated upwards to either the Compliance the CR section of the Strategic Report on page 44.  review with an anonymous Committee or Risk Review Committee, both of online questionnaire completed by each director.
which report regularly to the Executive Committee The results were discussed by the Board and and the Audit Committee.
We believe this structure priorities for further improving the Boards aligns with our risk-based approach to governance.
More detail on the Board Evaluation exercise can be found on pages A full description of our committee structure 10 and 11 of the Governance and Financial Report.
and composition can be found on pages 13 and 14 of the Governance and Financial Report and more information on our risk management and internal control activities on pages 35 to 39 of the Strategic Report.
