Corporate governance report Strong corporate governance DEAR SHAREHOLDER Areas of Board focus This year has been another exciting one for Ashtead.
We continue to During the past year the Board has paid particular attention to the deliver on our promises and are seeing unprecedented levels of following important areas: growth in the business.
As we grow it is crucial that our governance reviewing Board priorities and activities in line with our risk and structures keep pace so that we can ensure growth is both ethics management regime: responsible and sustainable.
We need to manage our risks efficiently an ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of our strategy and the degree to and ensure transparency across the business.
I am confident that which it remains appropriate as markets and opportunities change: your Board is well placed to do that and we remain committed to continuing review of the effectiveness of our capital structure as the maintaining the very highest standards of corporate governance.
We economic environment changes: recognise that good governance is essential in assisting the business evaluating our robust operating model and structure to ensure they deliver its strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard remain fit for purpose as Ashtead grows and markets change: shareholders long-term interests.
assessing the effectiveness of our health and safety practices As chairman, it is my role to ensure that the governance regime and monitoring across the Group, and identifying areas for remains appropriately robust and that the Board operates effectively.
improvement: I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance report for ensuring our key management resource remains motivated and 2014 15.
This report details the matters addressed by the Board and appropriately rewarded: and its committees during the year.
succession planning and ongoing senior recruitment.
Board composition and diversity Compliance Each member of our Board must be able to demonstrate the skills, We endeavour to monitor and comply with ongoing changes in experience and knowledge required to contribute to the effectiveness corporate governance and evolving best practice in this area.
It is also important that we address issues of diversity pleased to report that the Company has complied in full with the 2012 in terms of skills, geographical experience relevant to our business UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and I can confirm this and gender.
I believe the Board is appropriately balanced in terms report provides a fair, balanced and understandable view of the of diversity with a good mix of specialist skills and market expertise.
The composition of the Board has not changed during the year since the retirement of Hugh Etheridge as a director, senior independent director and chairman of the Audit Committee on 30 June 2014.
We do not expect any changes to the Board in the coming year.
The biographies and relevant experience of our Board members can be seen on page 43.
CHRIS COLE Chairman Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 44 Directors report LEADERSHIP MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD The Company is led by an effective Board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision The role of the Board includes: The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategy and ensuring treasury policy: the necessary resources and capabilities are in place to deliver the acquisitions and disposals: strategic aims and objectives.
It determines the Groups key policies appointment and removal of directors or the company and reviews management and financial performance.
The Groups secretary: governance framework is designed to facilitate a combination of appointment and removal of the auditor: effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management, both to approval of the annual accounts and the quarterly financial safeguard shareholders interests and to sustain the success of reports to shareholders: Ashtead over the longer term.
This is achieved through a control approval of the issue of shares and debentures: framework which enables risk to be assessed and managed the setting of dividend policy: and effectively.
The Board sets the Groups core values and standards the buy-back of shares.
and ensures that these, together with the Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are understood throughout the Group.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held between Board meetings 1 May 2014 and 30 April 2015 The principal activities of the Board are conducted at regular Board Audit Remuneration Nomination scheduled meetings of the Board and its committees.
The Board normally meets six times a year, with at least one of these meetings Number of 6 5 2 1 being held in the US.
Additional ad hoc meetings and calls are meetings held arranged outside the scheduled meetings to take decisions Chris Cole 6 1 as required.
Sat Dhaiwal 6 Geoff Drabble 6 1 The chairman and chief executive maintain regular contact with the Brendan Horgan 6 other directors to discuss matters relating to the Group and the Board receives regular reports and briefings to ensure the directors are Suzanne Wood 6 suitably briefed to fulfil their roles.
Michael Burrow 6 5 2 1 Wayne Edmunds 6 5 1 There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision.
Bruce Edwards 6 2 1 Other matters are delegated to Board committees, details of which Hugh Etheridge 1 2 1 1 are given on pages 49, 51 and 66.
Ian Sutcliffe 6 5 2 1 W ayne Edmunds was appointed as a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 1 July 2014.
H ugh Etheridge retired as a director on 30 June 2014.
THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES GROUP RISK COMMITTEE FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION Chaired by Suzanne Wood with responsibility for COMMITTEE Corporate Responsibility Chaired by Geoff Drabble BOARD AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Michael Burrow Michael Burrow Michael Burrow Wayne Edmunds Chris Cole Wayne Edmunds Ian Sutcliffe Geoff Drabble Bruce Edwards Bruce Edwards Ian Sutcliffe Ian Sutcliffe Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45 Corporate governance report continued Strong corporate governance continued Summary of the Boards work during the year Development and training During the year, the Board considered all matters reserved to All newly-appointed directors undertake an induction to all parts the Board for decision, focusing in particular on the following: of the Groups business.
This includes visits to both the Sunbelt and A-Plant businesses and meetings with their management teams.
Review of operations and current trading The company secretary also provides directors with an overview of Approval of the quarterly financial statements their responsibilities as directors, corporate governance policies and Approval of the annual report and accounts Board policies and procedures.
The chairman and chief executive Approval of the AGM resolutions assess regularly the development needs of the Board as a whole with Dividend policy the intention of identifying any additional training requirements.
Investor relations Treasury policy Information and support Issue of $500m of second priority senior secured notes The directors have access to the company secretary and are able Growth and acquisition strategy to seek independent advice at the Companys expense.
Various acquisitions, including Metrolift, Lone Star, Regular reports and briefings are provided to the Board, by the GWG Rentals Canada, Theros and TGR executive directors and the company secretary, to ensure the Adoption of the 2015 16 budget directors are suitably briefed to fulfil their roles.
Review of the work of the Groups Risk Committee Review and approval of the Groups risk register Additionally, detailed management accounts are sent monthly to all The recommendations of the Remuneration Committee Board members and, in advance of all Board meetings, an agenda and appropriate documentation in respect of each item to be discussed Appointments to the Board is circulated.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to Board evaluation the Board on any changes required.
Appointments are made on merit, The performance of the chairman, chief executive, the Board and its based on objective criteria, including skills and experience and committees is evaluated formally annually against, amongst other recognising the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
things, their respective role profiles and terms of reference.
The executive directors are evaluated additionally against the agreed Commitment budget for the generation of revenue, profit and value to shareholders.
As part of the appointment process, prospective directors are required to confirm that they will be able to devote sufficient time Following the external performance evaluation of the Board in to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
2012 13, this years evaluation was conducted by way of a Furthermore, all directors are required to inform the Company of questionnaire completed by all directors, the results of which were changes in their commitments to ensure that they continue to be collated by the company secretary and presented to the entire Board.
able to devote sufficient time to the Company.
Based on this evaluation, the Board concluded that performance in the past year had been satisfactory.
Board composition and roles Chairman Chris Cole Responsible for leadership of the Board, agreeing Board agendas and ensuring its effectiveness by requiring the provision of timely, accurate and clear information on all aspects of the Groups business, to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote the success of the business.
Chief executive Geoff Drabble Responsible for developing the strategy for the business, in conjunction with the Board, ensuring it is implemented, and the operational management of the business.
Finance director Suzanne Wood Supports the chief executive in developing and implementing the strategy and responsible for the reporting of the financial and operational performance of the business.
Senior independent Ian Sutcliffe Available to shareholders if they have reason for concern that director contact through the normal channels of chairman or chief executive has failed to resolve.
Independent nonMichael Burrow, Wayne Provide a creative contribution to the Board by providing executive directors Edmunds, Bruce Edwards, objective challenge and critique for executive management Ian Sutcliffe and insights drawn from their broad experience.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 46 Directors report In accordance with the Code, it is the Boards intention to have its and Finance and Administration Committee its committees performance evaluation conducted by an external The Finance and Administration Committee comprises Chris Cole, third party every three years.
Geoff Drabble chairman and Suzanne Wood.
The Board of directors has delegated authority to this committee to deal with routine The non-executive directors including the chairman meet as and financial and administrative matters between Board meetings.
when required in the absence of the executive directors to discuss The Committee meets as necessary to perform its role and has a and appraise the performance of the Board as a whole and the quorum requirement of two members with certain matters requiring performance of the executive directors.
In accordance with the Code, the participation of the chairman, including, for example, the approval the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent nonof material announcements to the London Stock Exchange.
executive director, also meet at least annually in the absence of the chairman to discuss and appraise his performance.
EFFECTIVENESS Non-executive directors Composition of the Board In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Companys The Companys Board comprises the chairman, the chief executive, practice to utilise the services of an external search consultancy.
the finance director, the executive heads of Sunbelt and A-Plant, Before appointment, non-executive directors are required to assure the senior independent non-executive director and three other the Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to fulfil independent non-executive directors.
Short biographies of the properly their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings directors are given on page 43. and discuss matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
The directors are of the view that the Board and its committees The non-executives letters of appointment will be available for consist of directors with the appropriate balance of skills, experience, inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The approval of the independence and knowledge of the Group to discharge their duties chairman is required before a non-executive can take on other and responsibilities effectively.
The composition of the Board has not non-executive director roles.
changed during the year since the retirement of Hugh Etheridge as Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms not a director, senior independent director and chairman of the Audit exceeding three years and are subject to annual re-election and Committee on 30 June 2014. the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the removal Re-election of a director.
The directors will retire at this years Annual General Meeting and will TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the Code.
ACCOUNTABILITY Chris Cole 13 years The Board is committed to providing stakeholders with a fair, Michael Burrow 8 years balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
This is achieved through the Strategic report and other Bruce Edwards 8 years information included within this Annual Report.
The responsibilities Ian Sutcliffe 5 years of the directors in respect of the preparation of this Annual Report are set out on page 69 and the auditors report on page 73 includes Wayne Edmunds 1 year a statement by Deloitte about its reporting responsibilities.
As set out on page 68, the directors are of the opinion that the Group is a going concern.
Risk management and control The Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has Delegated authority been in place for the full financial year and is ongoing.
Under its terms Board committees of reference the Group Risk Committee meets semi-annually or more The Board has standing Audit, Nomination and Remuneration frequently if required, with the objective of encouraging best risk Committees.
The membership, roles and activities of the Audit and management practice across the Group and a culture of regulatory Nomination Committees are detailed on pages 49 to 51 and the compliance and ethical behaviour.
The Group Risk Committee reports Remuneration Committee in the separate report on pages 52 to 66. annually through the Audit Committee to the Board.
Each committee reports to, and has its terms of reference agreed by, The Group reviews and assesses the risks it faces in its business the Board.
The terms of reference of these committees are available and how these risks are managed.
These reviews are conducted in on our website and will be available for inspection at the Annual conjunction with the management teams of each of the Groups General Meeting.
businesses and are documented in an annual report.
The reviews consider whether any matters have arisen since the last report was prepared which might indicate omissions or inadequacies in that assessment.
It also considers whether, as a result of changes in either the internal or external environment, any new significant risks have arisen.
The Group Risk Committee reviewed the draft report for 2015, which was then presented to, discussed by the Audit Committee on 27 May 2015 and approved by the Audit Committee and the Group Board on 11 June 2015.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47 Corporate governance report continued Strong corporate governance continued The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Audit Committee and auditor and confirms it has reviewed its effectiveness.
In doing so, the Group The Board has delegated responsibility for oversight of corporate has taken note of the relevant guidance for directors, published by the reporting and risk management and internal control and for Financial Reporting Council, Internal Control: Guidance to Directors.
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups auditor to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee report on pages 49 to 51 The Board considers that the Groups internal control systems are contains full details of the role and activities of the Audit Committee.
designed appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve its business objectives.
Any such control system, REMUNERATION however, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance The Board has delegated responsibility for developing remuneration against material misstatement or loss.
policy and fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors to Before producing the statement on internal control for the Annual the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee report Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015, the Board on pages 52 to 66 contains full details of the role and activities of the reconsidered the operational effectiveness of the Groups internal Remuneration Committee.
In particular, through the Audit Committee, it received reports from the operational audit teams and considered RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the internal control improvement recommendations made by the Dialogue with shareholders Groups internal auditors and its external auditor and managements We engage actively with analysts and investors and are open and implementation plans.
The control system includes written policies transparent in our communications.
This enables us to understand and control procedures, clearly drawn lines of accountability and what analysts and investors think about our strategy and performance delegation of authority, and comprehensive reporting and analysis as we drive the business forward.
The Board is updated regularly on against budgets and latest forecasts.
the views of shareholders through briefings from those who have In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of had interaction with shareholders including the directors and the Ashtead, minor breakdowns in established control procedures can Companys brokers.
Regular dialogue is maintained with analysts and occur.
There are supporting policies and procedures for investigation investors through meetings, presentations, conferences and ad hoc and management of control breakdowns at any of the Groups stores events.
During the year, senior management conducted over 300 or elsewhere.
The Audit Committee also meets regularly with the meetings and calls and attended one conference, with investors in external auditor to discuss its work.
the UK, US and the rest of Europe.
In January, we held a meeting for analysts and major shareholders in Florida which gave them an In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and opportunity to visit a range of locations and meet Ashtead and Sunbelt monitoring procedures include: senior management.
the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial The chairman and the senior independent non-executive director are management information, including a monthly profit and loss available to meet institutional shareholders to discuss any issues or account and selected balance sheet data for each store: concerns in relation to the Groups governance and strategy.
During the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authority the year the chairman of the Remuneration Committee met or had levels and proper segregation of accounting duties at the Groups discussions with a number of shareholders to discuss the application accounting support centres: of our remuneration policy.
the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board: the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update We continually seek to enhance our communications and have just forecasts which are reviewed by the executive directors and then appointed our first Director of Investor Relations.
by the Board: The Groups results and other news releases are published via the a programme of rental equipment inventories and full inventory London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
In addition, these counts conducted at each store by equipment type and news releases are published in the Investor Relations section of the independently checked on a sample basis by our operational Groups website at www.
Shareholders and other auditors and external auditor: interested parties can subscribe to receive these news updates by detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting centres email through registering online on the website.
undertaken periodically by internal audit specialists from a major international accounting firm: Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting comprehensive audits at the stores generally carried out at least We enjoy meeting with our private shareholders at the Companys every two years by internal operational audit.
A summary of this Annual General Meeting AGM.
The 2015 AGM will be held in London work is provided annually to the Audit Committee: and on Wednesday, 2 September 2015.
Further details of the meeting are whistle-blowing procedures by which staff may, in confidence, given on page 68.
Shareholders will receive an update on first quarter raise concerns about possible improprieties or breaches of trading during the meeting and be invited to ask questions and meet Company policy or procedure.
the directors after the formal proceedings have been completed.
Resolutions at the 2015 AGM will be voted on by a show of hands.
Following each vote, the results will be announced to the meeting and then announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Companys corporate website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 48
