Directors report Internal audit NOMINATION COMMITTEE The internal operational audit teams in the two businesses undertake The Nomination Committee meets as and when required to consider operational audits across the store network using a risk-based the structure, size and composition of the Board of directors.
Each year we agree the scope of work and the coverage Committees primary focus during the year remained succession in the audit plan at the start of the year and receive formal reports on planning and, in particular, the orderly replacement of the longthe results of the work at the half year and full year.
During the year serving non-executive directors.
349 audits were completed, which is consistent with our goal for each The only change to the Board during the year was the retirement of our nearly 650 stores to receive an audit visit at least once every of Hugh Etheridge on 30 June 2014 after 10 years service.
The audits are scored and action plans agreed with store management to remedy identified weaknesses.
This continual The members of the Committee are: process of reinforcement is key to the store level control environment.
Chris Cole Chairman In addition, we engage a major international accounting firm to Michael Burrow perform detailed internal audits at the Groups major support centres Geoff Drabble periodically.
This identified Wayne Edmunds a small number of minor improvement actions and plans have Bruce Edwards been agreed by management for them to be implemented Ian Sutcliffe where appropriate.
Eric Watkins is secretary to the Committee.
Whistle-blowing Main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee There are policies and procedures in place whereby staff may, in The principal duties of the Committee are making recommendations confidence, report concerns about possible improprieties or breaches to the Board on: of Company policy or procedure.
These suspicions are investigated and the results of the investigation are, where possible, reported the Boards structure, size, composition and balance: to the whistle-blower.
The Committee receives a report from the the appointment, reappointment, retirement or continuation of any company secretary on control issues arising from whistle-blowing director: and as well as from other sources.
the continuation of any non-executive director who has served for a period of three years or more.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Summary of the Committees work during the year The Committee met once during the year and the principal matters discussed were: succession planning: and the appointment of Ian Sutcliffe as senior independent director.
By order of the Board ERIC WATKINS Company secretary 15 June 2015 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51
