Directors report AUDIT COMMITTEE Main responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring Introduction by Wayne Edmunds, of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
Audit Committee chairman I am pleased to introduce my first report as chairman of the The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: Audit Committee.
monitor the integrity of the annual and quarterly results, The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility for including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and contained therein: internal control.
As chairman of the Committee, it is my responsibility establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the to ensure that the Committee fulfils its responsibilities in a rigorous external auditor, including the external audit process, its audit and effective manner.
The Committees agenda is designed, in and non-audit fees and independence and make recommendations conjunction with the Boards, to ensure that all significant areas to the Board on the appointment of the external auditor: of risk are covered and to enable it to provide timely input to review and assess the effectiveness of the Companys Board deliberations.
internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: I am satisfied that the Committee was provided with good quality and oversee the nature, scope and effectiveness of the internal audit timely material to allow proper consideration to be given to the topics work undertaken: and under review.
I am also satisfied that the meetings were scheduled monitor the Companys policies and procedures for handling to allow sufficient time to ensure all matters were considered fully.
In addition, we updated our Terms of Reference which were formally adopted on 3 June 2015 and are available in the corporate governance The Committee reports to the Board on its activities and minutes section of the Groups website at www.
of meetings are available to the Board.
One of the Codes principles is that the Board should present a fair, Summary of the Committees work during the year balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position The Committee met on five occasions during the year.
Meetings are and prospects through its financial reporting.
We have always sought scheduled to coincide with our financial reporting cycle, with four to ensure our financial and other external reporting is fair, balanced regular meetings scheduled prior to our quarterly, half-year and and understandable.
With this more formal reporting obligation, annual results announcements.
An additional meeting was held in the Committee has kept this principle at the forefront of its thought May last year to facilitate the handover from Hugh Etheridge to Wayne process as it reviewed all the Companys financial reports in advance Edmunds as chair of the Committee.
The Group audit partner from of publication and is satisfied that they provide a fair, balanced and Deloitte attends all meetings of the Committee and reports formally understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
at three of these meetings.
A similar process is undertaken at each reporting date whereby the WAYNE EDMUNDS Committee receives a paper from management which comments on Chairman of the Audit Committee the principal balances in the financial statements and discusses any matters of a financial reporting nature arising since the last meeting.
In addition, we receive reports from Deloitte at three of the meetings.
Membership of the Committee The first, in December, contains the results of Deloittes review of The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive directors, our half-year results.
The half-year review forms part of Deloittes biographical details of which are set out on page 43.
The members planning for the annual audit and its full audit plan and proposed audit of the Committee are: fee is presented to the February meeting of the Committee.
Deloittes Wayne Edmunds Chairman from 1 July 2014 final report of the year is at the June committee meeting when we Michael Burrow review the draft annual report.
Deloittes report contains the findings Ian Sutcliffe from its audit work, including comments on the draft annual report.
Wayne Edmunds has relevant and recent financial experience.
Integrity of financial reporting Wayne became chairman of the Committee on 1 July 2014 following We reviewed the integrity of the quarterly and annual financial the retirement of Hugh Etheridge.
Eric Watkins is secretary to the statements of the Company.
This included the review and discussion Committee.
Chris Cole, Geoff Drabble, Suzanne Wood and the Groups of papers prepared by management and took account of the views of deputy finance director generally attend meetings by invitation.
The key areas reviewed in the current year are In addition, the Group audit partner from our external auditor attends set out below.
Carrying value of rental fleet The Audit Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed and Management undertakes an annual review of the appropriateness of updated and formally adopted on 3 June 2015, are available on the the useful lives and residual values assigned to property, plant and Group website and will be available for inspection at the Annual equipment and assesses whether they continue to be appropriate and General Meeting.
whether there are any indications of impairment.
We are satisfied that the judgements taken are appropriate and consistent with prior years.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49 Corporate governance report continued Strong corporate governance continued Accounting for acquisitions Non-audit services and external auditor independence The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year.
We Each year we review the level of fees and nature of non-audit work reviewed the accounting for these acquisitions, including the undertaken and we were again satisfied that it was in line with our identification of acquired intangible assets which relate predominantly policy and did not detract from the objectivity and independence of the to customer relationships and the recognition of, and subsequent external auditor.
It is accepted that certain work of a non-audit nature accounting for, contingent consideration.
We are satisfied that the is best undertaken by the external auditor, for example, in connection judgements taken are appropriate.
with our debt issue in September 2014.
The non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, for the year relate to its review Going concern of the Companys interim results and comfort letters related to our We reviewed the appropriateness of the going concern assumption September 2014 debt issue.
Details of the fees payable to the external in preparing the financial statements.
We reviewed a paper prepared auditor are given in Note 4 to the financial statements.
by management which considered the Groups internal budgets and forecasts of future performance, available financing facilities and Reappointment of external auditor facility headroom.
Taking account of reasonably possible changes in Deloitte was appointed external auditor in 2004.
The external auditor trading performance, used equipment values and other factors that is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit might affect availability, the Group expects to maintain significant every five years and this year is the current lead audit partners headroom under its borrowing facilities for the forthcoming year.
The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each year and is recommending to the Board that a We are satisfied that the going concern basis of preparation continues proposal be put to shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting to be appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
for the reappointment of Deloitte.
There are no contractual Goodwill impairment review restrictions on the Companys choice of external auditor and in The Group undertakes a formal goodwill impairment review as at making its recommendation the Committee took into account, 30 April each year.
This is based on the latest approved budget and amongst other matters, the tenure, objectivity and independence of three-year plan for Sunbelt and A-Plant.
Reflecting the growth in the Deloitte, as noted above, and its continuing effectiveness and cost.
Groups specialty businesses, management reassessed the identified The Committee has followed the legislative developments on audit cash-generating units CGUs during the year.
As a result of this tendering and rotation from the EU and Competition & Markets review, the Group concluded that certain specialty businesses should Authority.
Under the transitional arrangements, the Group is be classified as separate CGUs, due to them generating separately not required to rotate its auditor until 2023.
Notwithstanding the identifiable cash flows.
We reviewed the changes to the identified transitional arrangements, we will consider tendering the audit in CGUs and agree with this assessment and are satisfied that there 2017 to fit in with the timing of the next rotation of the current audit is no impairment of the carrying value of goodwill in the CGUs of partner scheduled for 2018.
Financial control and risk management External audit effectiveness The Companys objective is to maintain a strong control environment The Committee conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the which minimises the financial risk faced by the business.
It is the audit of the 2015 financial statements, based on its own experience Committees responsibility to review and assess the effectiveness and drawing on input from senior corporate management and senior of the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and finance management at Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The review was based risk management factors.
on questionnaires completed by the members of the Committee and senior management.
The questionnaires focused on the quality The Committee receives regular reports from internal operational and experience of the team assigned to the audit, the robustness audit, outsourced internal audit and the Group Risk Committee.
of the audit process, the quality of delivery and communication The Groups risk management processes are an area of focus as they and governance and independence of the audit firm.
Overall, adapt to reflect changes to our risk profile as a result of our significant the Committee is satisfied that the audit process and strategy growth, both organic and through bolt-on acquisitions.
for the audit of the 2015 financial statements was effective.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 50
