Corporate Governance Senior Executive Team as at 31 December 2015 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 Pascal Soriot 2 Marc Dunoyer CEO CFO See page 86.
4 Dr Sean Bohen 3 Katarina Ageborg Executive Vice-President, Chief Compliance Officer Global Medicines Development and Katarina was appointed Chief Compliance Officer 13 Chief Medical Officer and a member of the SET on 1 July 2011.
She has Sean was appointed Executive Vice-President, overall responsibility for the delivery, design and GMD in September 2015 and leads our global implementation of the Companys compliance late-stage development organisation for both small programme and since her appointment has molecules and biologics.
He is also the Companys driven increased efficiency and effectiveness in Chief Medical Officer.
He joined AstraZeneca from compliance.
She has also assumed responsibility Genentech, where he was most recently Senior for Safety, Health & Environment, and most recently in 2015 for the Companys sustainability programme.
Vice President of Early Development.
Before joining Genentech, Sean was a Clinical Instructor in Katarina led the Global IP function from 2008 to 2011, during which time she streamlined the Oncology at Stanford University School of Medicine, a research associate at the Howard Hughes Medical organisation and launched a new patent filing strategy.
After joining AstraZeneca in 1998, she held Institute and a postdoctoral fellow at the National Cancer Institute.
He is a graduate of the University a series of senior legal roles supporting Commercial, Regulatory and IP.
Prior to AstraZeneca, Katarina of Wisconsin and later earned his doctorate in biochemistry and his medical degree at the established her own law firm and worked as a lawyer on both civil and criminal cases.
Katarina University of California, San Francisco.
holds a Master of Law Degree from Uppsala University School of Law in Sweden.
88 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance 5 Pam Cheng 8 Paul Hudson 11 Luke Miels Executive Vice-President, Operations President, AstraZeneca, US and Executive Executive Vice-President, Global Product and and Information Technology Vice-President, North America Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical Affairs and Corporate Affairs Pam joined AstraZeneca in June 2015 after having Paul was appointed Executive Vice-President, spent 14 years in Global Manufacturing and Supply North America in January 2013 and is accountable Luke was appointed Executive Vice-President, Chain roles at Merck MSD.
Pam was the Head of for driving growth and maximising the contribution Global Product and Portfolio Strategy GPPS in Global Supply Chain Management & Logistics for of the commercial operations in North America May 2014, leading AstraZenecas global marketing, Merck from 2006 to 2011 and led the transformation to AstraZenecas global business.
Paul joined business development and commercial portfolio of Merck supply chains across the global supply AstraZeneca in 2006 as Vice-President and Primary strategy operations.
More recently, Pam was President of MSD Care Director, UK and was later appointed President Affairs and Global Corporate Affairs functions also China, responsible for MSDs entire business in of AstraZenecas subsidiary companies in Japan report to him.
Luke joined AstraZeneca from Roche, China.
Prior to joining Merck, Pam held various and Spain.
He has served as a Standing Board where he was Regional Vice-President Asia Pacific engineering and project management positions at Member of the Japan Pharmaceuticals for the Pharmaceuticals Division, and before that Universal Oil Products, Union Carbide Corporation Manufacturers Association and EFPIA in Japan.
Head of Metabolism for Global Marketing.
Pam holds Bachelors and Before joining AstraZeneca, Paul worked for then, he was at Aventis where he held roles of Masters degrees in chemical engineering from Schering-Plough, where he held senior global increasing seniority, including Country Manager Stevens Institute of Technology in New Jersey marketing roles.
He received a degree in economics positions in Asia Pacific, Head of US Analytics and and an MBA in marketing from Pace University from Manchester Metropolitan University and a Commercial Effectiveness, and US Vice-President in New York.
DipM from the UKs Chartered Institute of Marketing.
He also led the US integration of Sanofi and Aventis while he was there.
6 Fiona Cicconi 9 Dr Bahija Jallal Luke began his career in 1995 with AstraZeneca in Executive Vice-President, Human Resources Executive Vice-President, MedImmune Australia as a Sales Representative and Product Fiona joined AstraZeneca in September 2014 as Bahija was appointed Executive Vice-President, Manager.
Luke holds a BSc in biology from Flinders Executive Vice-President, Human Resources.
She MedImmune in January 2013 and is responsible University in Adelaide and an MBA from the started her career at General Electric, where she for biologics research activities.
Bahija is tasked Macquarie University, Sydney.
held various human resources roles within the oil with advancing the biologic pipeline of drugs.
She 12 Dr Menelas Pangalos and gas business, which included experience in joined MedImmune in 2006 as Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Innovative Medicines major global acquisitions and driving change.
Translational Sciences and has held roles of and Early Development Subsequently, Fiona spent a number of years at increasing responsibility at AstraZeneca.
Prior to Cisco, before joining Roche in 2006.
There, she joining AstraZeneca, Bahija worked with Chiron Menelas Mene was appointed Executive was most recently responsible for global human Corporation, where she served as Vice-President, Vice-President, IMED Biotech Unit in January 2013 resources for Pharma Technical Operations, where Drug Assessment and Development.
Bahija and leads AstraZenecas small molecule research her primary focus was to build one culture between received a Masters degree in biology from and early development activities.
Mene joined Roche and Genentech and identify and develop a lUniversit fide Paris VII and her doctorate in AstraZeneca from Pfizer, where he was Senior sustainable supply of leadership and talent from physiology from lUniversit Pierre et Marie Curie, Vice-President and Chief Scientific Officer of within the organisation.
She conducted her post-doctoral research Neuroscience Research.
Previously, he held senior at the Max-Planck Institute of Biochemistry in discovery and neuroscience roles at Wyeth and 7 Dr Ruud Dobber Martinsried, Germany.
He completed his undergraduate degree Executive Vice-President, Europe American Association of Science and the in biochemistry at the Imperial College of Science Ruud was appointed Executive Vice-President, Pharmacogenomics Working Group and is on the and Technology, London and earned a doctorate Europe in January 2013 and is responsible for sales, Board of Directors of the Association of Women in neurochemistry from the University of London.
marketing and commercial operations across in Science.
She is also on the Board of Trustees He is a Visiting Professor of Neuroscience at Kings AstraZenecas businesses in the 28 EU member of the Johns Hopkins University.
College London and is a Fellow of Clare Hall at the states.
In addition to his European accountabilities, University of Cambridge.
Mene is a Fellow of the 10 Mark Mallon Ruud is responsible for the development of our Academy of Medical Sciences and of the Royal Executive Vice-President, International late-stage, small molecule antibiotic pipeline as Society of Biology.
In the UK, Mene serves on the well as its global commercialisation.
Ruud joined Mark was appointed Executive Vice-President, Medical Research Council, is on the Board of the AstraZeneca in 1997 and has held various senior International in January 2013 and is responsible National Centre for Universities and Business commercial and leadership roles, including Regional for the growth and performance of AstraZenecas NCUB, and a Non-Executive Director of the Vice-President of AstraZenecas European, Middle commercial businesses in various regions, including UK Precision Medicine Catapult.
East and African division, Regional Vice-President Asia Pacific, Russia, Latin America, the Middle East 13 Jeff Pott for the Asia Pacific region and Interim Executive and Africa.
Since joining AstraZeneca in 1994, General Counsel Vice-President, GPPS.
Since 2012, Ruud has been Mark has held multiple senior sales and marketing an Executive Committee Member of the European roles, including Regional Vice-President for Asia Jeff was appointed General Counsel in January Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Pacific, President of AstraZenecas Chinese and 2009 and has overall responsibility for all aspects Associations EFPIA and was earlier Chairman of Italian subsidiaries, Chief Operating Officer of of AstraZenecas Legal and IP function.
He joined the Asia division of Pharmaceutical Research and AstraZenecas Japanese subsidiary and ViceAstraZeneca in 1995 and has worked in various Manufacturers of America.
Holding a doctorate in President of AstraZenecas US gastrointestinal litigation roles, where he has had responsibility for IP, immunology from the University of Leiden in the and respiratory businesses.
He has served as a anti-trust and product liability litigation.
Before joining Netherlands, Ruud began his career as a scientist, member of the Board of Directors for Christiana AstraZeneca, he spent five years at the US legal firm researching in the field of immunology and ageing.
Care, the largest hospital system in Delaware.
He Drinker Biddle and Reath LLP, where he specialised has also been an Executive Committee Member for in pharmaceutical product liability litigation and R&D-based Pharmaceutical Association Committee, anti-trust advice and litigation.
He received his the China industry association for innovative bachelors degree in political science from Wheaton pharmaceutical companies.
Mark began his career College and his Juris Doctor Degree from Villanova in the pharmaceutical industry in management University School of Law.
He holds a degree in chemical engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an MBA in marketing and finance from the Wharton School of Business.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 89
