Governance | Corporate governance | 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dear fellow shareholders I am pleased to present the Associated British Foods corporate governance report for the year ended 12 September 2015.
One of the key responsibilities in my role as Chairman is to promote good corporate governance, which is a vital element in ensuring our future as a successful and sustainable company.
Good governance requires the right leadership.
While the current board is made up of directors from a variety of international backgrounds and sectors, we continue to assess its composition with the aim of maintaining an effective balance and diversity of skills and experience to meet the Companys present needs but with a view to refreshing board membership over the coming years so that it evolves along with the group.
As I have highlighted in my Chairmans statement on page 5, in January 2015, we were delighted to welcome Wolfhart Hauser to the board as an independent non-executive director.
Wolfhart brings a strong track record of driving profitable growth and value creation in a large international organisation, as well as having extensive board experience of several major UK listed companies.
We report on the formal process by which Wolfhart was appointed in the Nomination committee report on page 68.
In May 2014, the Financial Conduct Authority introduced changes to the listing regime as part of a series of measures to strengthen minority shareholder protection in companies such as ours with a controlling shareholder.
During the year under review, in compliance with the provisions, we entered into a relationship agreement with the Companys controlling shareholders.
Details about the relationship agreement can be found on page 91 of the Directors report.
Following the introduction of these measures, the board undertook a detailed review of its corporate governance framework and has updated and enhanced, where necessary, its processes and documentation.
I am pleased to report that we made good progress against a number of actions agreed following the 2014 board performance evaluation exercise and which we identified in last years report.
Our 2015 board evaluation was externally facilitated by consultants from Bvalco Limited and this provided both positive and constructive feedback.
The board evaluation process and a summary of the key outcomes are described on page 66.
In the following pages, we explain in greater detail our approach to governance how the board and its committees have fulfilled their governance responsibilities during the year to ensure that robust governance practices are embedded across the group.
As always, we welcome questions or comments from shareholders either via our website www.
co. uk or in person at the annual general meeting.
Charles Sinclair Chairman Compliance with the UK Corporate on or after 1 October 2014 the 2014 Code.
The board met regularly throughout the Governance Code The Company will therefore report in year to approve the groups strategic As a premium listed company on the accordance with the 2014 Code in its objectives, to lead the group within a London Stock Exchange, the Company 2016 annual report.
framework of effective controls which is reporting in accordance with the UK enable risk to be assessed and managed The board considers that the Company has, Corporate Governance Code published in and to ensure that sufficient resources throughout the year ended 12 September September 2012 the Code which sets are available to meet the objectives set.
2015, applied the main principles and out standards of good practice in relation complied with the provisions set out in There are a number of matters which to board leadership and effectiveness, the Code, with the exception of the are specifically reserved for the boards remuneration, accountability and relations chairmanship of the Remuneration approval.
These are set out in a clearly with shareholders.
The Code is published committee see below.
defined schedule, which includes: matters by the UK Financial Reporting Council relating to the groups strategic plan: FRC and a copy of the Code is available Leadership approving the annual business strategy from the FRC website www.
The board and objectives: the nature and extent of The board of directors is collectively An updated version of the UK Corporate principal risks to be taken to achieve the responsible to the Companys shareholders Governance Code was published in strategic objectives: changes relating to for the direction and oversight of the September 2014 and first applies to structure and capital: approval of trading Company to ensure its long-term success.
companies with financial years commencing statements, interim results, final results and annual report and accounts: declaring interim dividends and recommending final Code provision Status Explanation dividends: the groups policies and systems D. 2.1 The Chairman Charles Sinclair is The board of Associated British Foods plc of internal control and risk management, should not chair both Chairman of continues to consider that Charles Sinclair, approving capital projects, acquisitions the Remuneration the Company and due to his experience, is best suited to and disposals valued at over 30m: committee chairman of the chair this committee.
No director has any provision of adequate succession planning, Remuneration involvement in the determination of his own approving major group policies and matters committee.
The board believes that the relating to the compliance with the terms Company has maintained robust governance of the Relationship Agreement between while at the same time benefiting from the Company and its controlling having Charles Sinclair as the chairman shareholders dated 14 November 2014. of the Remuneration committee.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance | Corporate governance | 63 decision-making.
They each occupy, or The schedule of matters reserved for the Senior executives below board level are have occupied, senior positions in industry board was reviewed during the year and invited, when appropriate, to attend board or public life, bringing valuable external an updated version of the document was meetings and to make presentations on perspective to the boards deliberations approved and adopted at the September the results and strategies of their business through their experience and insight from 2015 board meeting.
The schedule can be units.
Papers for board and committee other sectors enabling them to contribute found on the corporate governance section meetings are generally provided to significantly to board decision-making.
of the Companys website abf.
directors for board and committee The formal letters of appointment of meetings a week in advance.
Certain specific responsibilities are non-executive directors are available delegated to the board committees, The attendance of the directors at board for inspection at the Companys notably the Audit, Remuneration and and committee meetings during the year registered office.
Nomination committees, which operate to 12 September 2015 is shown in the Election and re-election of directors within clearly defined terms of reference table below.
Where a director is unable In accordance with the Codes and report regularly to the board.
For to participate in a meeting either in person recommendations, all directors will be further details, please see Board or remotely, the Chairman solicited their proposed for election or re-election at the committees section below.
views on key items of business in advance 2015 annual general meeting to be held of the relevant meeting, so that these Authority for the operational management in December with the exception of Lord could be shared with the meeting and of the groups business has been delegated Jay who, as indicated in the Chairmans contribute to the debate.
to the Chief Executive for execution or statement on page 5 will be retiring as further delegation by him for the effective Board committees a non-executive director with effect day-to-day running and management of The board has established three principal from 30 November 2015. the group.
The chief executive of each board committees, to which it has delegated Board meetings business within the group has authority certain of its responsibilities.
These are The board held a total of nine meetings for that business and reports directly the Audit committee, the Nomination during the year, eight scheduled and one to the Chief Executive.
committee, and the Remuneration additional meeting.
The membership, Chairman and Chief Executive meetings take place away from the responsibilities and activities of these The roles of the Chairman and the Chief corporate centre in London.
During the committees are described later in this Executive are separately held and the year under review, one of the meetings corporate governance report and, in the division of their responsibilities is clearly was held in Berlin where the board visited case of the Remuneration committee, established, set out in writing, and agreed the two Primark stores located there, in the Remuneration report on page 88. by the board to ensure that no one has providing the non-executive directors in Membership of these committees is unfettered powers of decision.
The particular with the opportunity to meet reviewed annually.
Minutes of committee Chairman, Charles Sinclair, is responsible for local management and other employees.
meetings are made available to all the operation and leadership of the board, The board also held one of its meetings directors on a timely basis.
ensuring its effectiveness and setting its in Hampshire and visited the Jordans agenda.
The Chief Executive, George The chairman of the Audit, Nomination & Ryvita premises in Poole for a site Weston, is responsible for leading and and Remuneration committees intend to tour and business presentation from managing the groups business within a set be present at the annual general meeting local management.
of authorities delegated by the board and the to answer questions on the work of their implementation of board strategy and policy.
Senior Independent Director Audit Nomination Remuneration Tim Clarke is the Companys recognised Board committee committee committee Senior Independent Director.
The role Charles Sinclair 9 9 1 1 4 4 of the Senior Independent Director is to George Weston 9 9 act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for other John Bason 9 9 1 directors where necessary.
He is also Emma Adamo 8 9 available to shareholders should a need 2 Ruth Cairnie 9 9 5 5 3 4 arise to convey concerns to the board Tim Clarke 9 9 1 1 4 4 which they have been unable to convey 3 Javier Ferrn 9 9 4 5 1 1 4 4 through the Chairman or through the 4 Wolfhart Hauser 6 7 3 3 3 3 executive directors.
During the year, led by the Senior Independent Director, the Lord Jay 9 9 5 5 1 1 4 4 non-executive directors have met without Peter Smith 9 9 5 5 1 1 4 4 the presence of the Chairman including 1 Emma Adamo was unable to attend the additional, unscheduled, board meeting that was held to appraise the Chairmans performance.
during the year because of prior business and personal commitments.
However, she reviewed the relevant information and provided comments as appropriate to the Chairman.
The non-executive directors 2 Ruth Cairnie was unable to unable to attend one Remuneration committee meeting because of In addition to their responsibilities for other business and personal commitments.
However, she reviewed the relevant papers and provided feedback as appropriate to the Chairman.
strategy and business results, the 3 J avier Ferrn was unable to attend one Audit committee meeting because of other business non-executive directors play a key role and personal commitments.
However, he reviewed the papers circulated and provided feedback to the Chairman.
in providing a solid foundation for good 4 W olfhart Hauser was appointed as a director and member of the Remuneration committee on corporate governance and ensure that no 14 January 2015, and as a member of the Audit Committee from 13 April 2015.
He was unable individual or group dominates the boards to attend the additional, unscheduled, board meeting that was held during the year.
However, he reviewed the relevant information and provided comments as appropriate to the Chairman.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance | Corporate governance | 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The written terms of reference for the Effectiveness Wolfhart Hauser appointed on Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Board composition 14 January 2015 committees, all of which were reviewed At the date of this report, the board Peter Smith and updated during the year, are comprises the following directors: Emma Adamo is not considered to available on the Companys website Chairman be independent by the board in view www.
co. uk and hard copies are Charles Sinclair of her relationship with Wittington available on request.
Investments Limited, the Companys Executive directors Directors insurance majority shareholder.
She was appointed George Weston Chief Executive The Company has in place appropriate in December 2011 to represent this John Bason Finance Director directors and officers liability insurance shareholding on the board of the cover in respect of legal action against Non-executive directors Company.
The board considers that the its executive and non-executive directors, Emma Adamo other six non-executive directors are amongst others.
Ruth Cairnie independent in character and judgement Tim Clarke and that they are each free from any The work of the board during the year Javier Ferrn business or other relationships which During the financial year, key activities Lord Jay would materially interfere with the of the board included: exercise of their independent judgement.
The Code requires that, if a director Strategy has served on the board for more than Annual away-day focus on strategy.
nine years, the board should state the Conducting regular strategy sessions in board meetings.
reasons why it considers the director, notwithstanding his or her length of Acquisitions disposals service, to be independent.
Accordingly, the board has considered the independence Approving the increased ownership in Vivergo.
of Tim Clarke and Javier Ferrn as follows: Receiving regular updates on acquisitions disposals.
as at 3 November 2015, Tim Clarke Performance monitoring has served 11 years as a director of the Company.
The board has continued to Receiving regular reports to the board from the Chief Executive.
keep Tims independence under close Receiving, on a rolling basis, senior management presentations from each of the group business areas.
review given his length of service.
Having given careful consideration to Approving the group budget for the 2015 16 financial year.
the matter, the board is satisfied that Receiving regular feedback on directors meetings held with institutional investors.
Tim Clarke continues to demonstrate Receiving reports from the board committee chairmen.
the qualities of independence in carrying Governance and risk out his role as a non-executive director and Senior Independent Director, Approving the Companys full year and interim results.
supporting the team in an objective Recommending the 2014 final dividend and approving the 2015 interim dividend.
The board Annual review of the material financial and non-financial risks facing the groups businesses.
considers that he continues to be Receiving regular divisional food safety updates.
independent in character and judgement Half yearly review of progress in implementing actions arising from the 2014 board evaluation.
and that there are no relationships or Participating in the 2015 annual board performance evaluation and receiving a report on circumstances which are likely to affect, that evaluation.
or could appear to affect, his judgement.
Reviewing and approving updated schedule of matters reserved for the board, terms Tim retains his role as Senior Independent of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees and other policies, Director and will offer himself for procedures and guidance relating to the Companys governance framework.
re-election at this years annual general Receiving regular updates on regulatory matters.
The board will continue to Corporate responsibility keep his independence under review.
as at 1 November 2015, Javier Ferrn has served nine years as a director Receiving regular management reports on health, safety and environment issues.
Javiers service and Receiving updates on Primarks ethical sourcing.
consequent knowledge and experience People of the group, together with the invaluable retail experience he brings to the role, Appointment of Wolfhart Hauser as an independent non-executive director.
are highly regarded by the board.
Receiving update on and considering senior succession planning and people activities.
In recognition of this length of service, Confirming directors independence.
however, he stepped down from the Various Audit committee on 26 October 2015.
Notwithstanding his length of service Receiving updates on procurement, information technology and communications from and, having given due deliberation to the heads of the relevant functions.
the matter, the board is satisfied that Undertaking appropriate preparations for the holding of the annual general meeting and, Javier Ferrn continues to demonstrate subsequently, discussing issues arising from that meeting.
the qualities of independence and Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance | Corporate governance | 65 objectivity in carrying out his role as serves.
New directors are encouraged Following her appointment in May 2014, a non-executive director.
The board to accelerate their knowledge of the Ruth Cairnies induction programme considers that he continues to group by visiting a number of its continued during the year under review be independent in character and businesses and operations.
with a number of further site visits and judgement and that there are no management meetings, which included: Key elements of the induction programme relationships or circumstances which and site visits undertaken by Wolfhart to visits to various Primark stores are likely to affect, or could appear date following his appointment are set accompanied by senior management: to affect, his judgement.
Javier will out below: offer himself for re-election at this a half-day London-based baking tour years annual general meeting and accompanied by senior AB Mauri Board and governance the board will continue to keep his executives the purpose of which was independence under review.
to illustrate the spectrum of the baking Legal and regulatory duties of a UK listed world: and company director.
Following the retirement of Lord Jay as a non-executive director on 30 November Group governance framework including individual meetings with the Head of matters reserved to the board for its 2015, the board will comprise the Executive Development, Director of decision and committee terms Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Financial Control, and Director of Legal of reference.
Director and six non-executive directors.
Ruth also attended sessions Restrictions and procedures for dealing of the groups Womens Business Biographical and related information in the Companys shares.
Education Forum a forum for senior about the directors is set out on pages Procedure for dealing with board conflicts.
women in ABF worldwide to develop, 60 and 61. through networking, business education The groups approach to corporate Appointments to the board responsibility.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent Training and development Management meetings and site visits procedure for the appointment of new The board is kept up-to-date on legal, directors to the board.
Details are available Visit to George Weston Foods in regulatory and governance matters in the Nomination committee report Australia including meetings with through regular papers from the Company set out on page 69 which also provides senior management.
Secretary and by presentations from details of the committees role Attending budget review meetings internal and external advisors.
the year, the board received guidance Individual meetings with members Commitment on procedures regarding related-party of the senior management team at The letters of appointment for the transactions and transactions with the centre including Director of Legal Chairman and the non-executive directors controlling shareholders, updates Services & Company Secretary, Group set out the expected time commitment on changes in corporate governance Treasurer, Head of External Affairs, required of them and are available for regulation and practice, including the 2014 Group Tax Director and International Tax inspection by any person during normal edition of the Corporate Governance Manager, Director of Financial Control business hours at the Companys Code, the Competition & Markets and Director of Business Development.
registered office and at the annual general Authority Audit Order and EU Audit Meeting with the UK Grocery CEO.
Other significant commitments Regulation, a reminder of their continuing Visit to the Peterborough site for meetings of the Chairman and non-executive obligations under the Companys share with senior management of AB Mauri, directors are disclosed on appointment dealing policy as well as regular updates AB Agri and the IS Director, including and require approval thereafter.
on other developments on matters of a tour of the ABF IT Shared Service corporate governance.
Centre which delivers IT infrastructure Board development and services to group companies.
The Chairman, with the support of the Information flow Audit committee briefing with Group Company Secretary, is responsible for The Company Secretary manages the Financial Controller.
the induction of new directors and the provision of information to the board at Remuneration committee briefing with continuing development of directors.
appropriate times in consultation with the Group HR Director and Head of Reward.
In addition Board induction Site visit to Allied Bakeries factory to formal meetings, the Chairman and Wolfhart Hauser joined the board as a in Stockport and meeting with senior Chief Executive maintain regular contact non-executive director on 14 January 2015 management.
The Chairman also holds and undertook a formal, tailored programme Site visit to the Wissington sugar factory informal meetings with non-executive of induction.
This was facilitated by the and meetings accompanied by the directors, without any of the executives Chairman and the Company Secretary.
being present, to discuss any issues The induction programme aimed to Visit to Primark offices in Dublin and store affecting the group, if this is thought familiarise Wolfhart with the way the visits with Primark senior management.
Regular management group operates through its five strategic updates are sent to directors to keep the business segments and with its non-executive directors informed of governance arrangements.
The events throughout the group between programme took into account his board meetings and to ensure that experience and business perspectives, they are kept fully advised of the latest and the committees on which he issues affecting the group.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance | Corporate governance | 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board performance evaluation During the year, implementation of A list of action points arising from An evaluation to assess the performance a number of recommended action the 2015 review on how the board can of the board as a whole, its committees points arising from the 2014 evaluation become even more effective was offered and that of the individual directors was overseen by the Chairman and by Bvalco and subsequently agreed by is conducted annually with the aim included the actions set out in the the board.
These agreed action points of improving the effectiveness of table below.
in the form of a board development plan the board and its members and the are being implemented under the direction performance of the group.
of the Chairman and include actions 2014 Objectives identified in the table below.
In accordance with the Code requirement Board impact that the evaluation should be conducted There was an increased focus by the 2015 Objectives by an external facilitator at least every board on Primark at each board meeting three years, Bvalco Limited Bvalco including fuller details of Primarks Role of the board was engaged to undertake a review of performance metrics and the progress Following acknowledgement that board the board.
The review took place in the of Primarks expansion into the US.
strategy sessions had continued to develop final quarter of the financial year.
Bvalco Particular board focus was given to the very positively, it is proposed that in future is independent with no other connection Sugar division in light of the forthcoming there should be a greater emphasis on with the Company.
portfolio management of the group and development of a longer-term financial More structured discussion took place Following a scoping exercise with the plan, with a similar approach to be adopted at the board, after each divisional Chairman and the Senior Independent on considerations of group risk.
presentation, to discuss the performance Director to agree the priority areas and of that division and to allow comparison issues to be addressed in the review, Engagement with divisional with the performance of other divisions Bvalco undertook a confidential interview level executive within the group.
with each of the directors and a number The regular programme of presentations Divisional presentations to the board have by divisional heads to be made more of senior executives including the provided an increased level of information dynamic by a number of means, including Company Secretary.
The discussion in on respective key competitors and prior disclosure of the presentation to each case centred on key themes and, market demand.
the board, more time at the board being among the topics discussed, were Regular one to one discussions have set aside to be spent discussing issues the strengths and values of the board, taken place between board members, and strategic choices arising from the quality of succession planning, and separately, with the Chairman and the presentation.
the interaction of the board members with the groups various businesses, Succession and resource Risk management the process of managing strategic Various actions identified, to be actioned The handling of risk continued to be a planning and the management of risk.
through the Nomination committee, priority for the Audit committee and the to enhance the formal succession Following the conclusion of the board, and each business division has planning process in the group.
interviews, Bvalco produced a written been encouraged to cover risk routinely in their presentations to the board.
report, which was discussed with Board support the Chairman, the Chief Executive, Use of electronic board papers Corporate responsibility and the Senior Independent Director to be trialled.
Given the growing importance of before being sent to board members environmental issues to the group, and was discussed at the following Conflicts of interest procedure the annual report to the board on the board meeting.
environment was separated from The Company has procedures in place, the report on health and safety.
which were reviewed and updated during the year, to deal with the situation where a director has a conflict of interest.
Based on the outcome of the 2015 As part of this process, the board: review, it was concluded that the board continues to work very effectively considers each conflict situation as a cohesive body with a good balance separately on its particular facts: of support, challenge and mutual trust considers the conflict situation between the executives and the in conjunction with the rest of the non-executives.
conflicted directors duties under It was also the boards view that, overall, the 2006 Act: the principal committees continued keeps records and board minutes as to function efficiently and effectively.
to authorisations granted by directors Each of the directors was considered and the scope of any approvals to be making a valuable contribution given: and and with proper commitment, including of time, to their respective roles.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance | Corporate governance | 67 Accountability that the consolidated accounts preparation Financial reporting Financial and business reporting and financial reporting processes comply Detailed management accounts are The board is required by the Code to with all relevant regulatory reporting prepared every four weeks, consolidated present a fair, balanced and understandable requirements.
The dynamics of the group in a single system and reviewed by senior assessment of the Companys position and the environment within which it management and the board.
In relation to this operates are continually evolving together a comprehensive set of financial reports requirement, reference is made to the with its exposure to risk.
The system is and key performance indicators covering statement of directors responsibilities designed to manage, rather than eliminate, commercial, operational, environmental for preparing the financial statements set the risk of assets being unprotected and and people issues.
Performance against out on page 93 of this annual report and to guard against their unauthorised use and budgets and forecasts is discussed accounts.
The board recognises that its the failure to achieve business objectives.
regularly at board meetings and at responsibility to present a fair, balanced Internal controls can only provide meetings between operational and and understandable assessment extends reasonable and not absolute assurance group management.
The adequacy and to interim and other price-sensitive against material misstatement or loss.
suitability of key performance indicators public reports, reports to regulators, and is reviewed regularly.
All chief executives The directors confirm that there is a information required to be presented by and finance directors of the groups process for identifying, evaluating and statutory requests.
operations are asked to sign an annual managing the risks faced by the group confirmation that their business has Business model and the operational effectiveness of the complied with the Group Accounting A description of the Companys business related controls, which has been in place Manual in the preparation of consolidated model for sustainable growth is set out for the year under review and up to the financial statements and specifically in the group business model and strategy date of approval of the annual report and to confirm the adequacy and accuracy section on pages 8 and 9 and in the accounts.
They also confirm that they of accounting provisions.
business strategies section on pages have regularly reviewed the system 10 and 11.
These sections provide an of internal controls utilising the review Internal audit explanation of the basis on which the process set out below.
The groups businesses employ internal group generates value and preserves it auditors both employees and resources Standards over the long term and its strategy for provided by Ernst & Young where There are guidelines on the minimum delivering its objectives.
appropriate with skills and experience groupwide requirements for health and relevant to the operation of each business.
Going concern safety and environmental standards.
These arrangements are currently under After making enquiries the directors have There are also guidelines on the minimum review in light of the selection of Ernst & a reasonable expectation that the Company level of internal control that each of the Young LLP as the Companys new auditor, and the group have adequate resources divisions should exercise over specified following a formal tender process, details to continue in operational existence for processes.
Each business has developed of which are set out in the Audit committee the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, and and documented policies and procedures report on page 73.
All of the internal audit consistent with the guidance contained to comply with the minimum control activities are co-ordinated centrally by the in the document titled Going Concern standards established, including groups Director of Financial Control, who and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors procedures for monitoring compliance is accountable to the Audit committee.
of UK Companies 2009 published by the and taking corrective action.
The board FRC, they continue to adopt the going of each business is required to confirm All group businesses are required to concern basis in preparing the annual twice yearly that it has complied with comply with the groups financial control financial statements.
framework that sets out minimum control standards.
A key function of the groups Internal control and risk management High level controls internal audit resources is to undertake The board acknowledges its responsibilities All businesses prepare annual operating audits to ensure compliance with the for the groups system of internal control plans and budgets which are updated financial control framework and make to facilitate the identification, assessment regularly.
Performance against budget recommendations for improvement in and management of risk, the protection of is monitored at operational level and controls where appropriate.
Internal shareholders investments and the groups centrally, with variances being reported audit also conducts regular reviews to assets.
The directors recognise that they promptly.
The cash position at group and ensure that risk management procedures are responsible for providing a return to operational level is monitored constantly and controls are observed.
The Audit shareholders, which is consistent with and variances from expected levels are committee receives regular reports on the responsible assessment and mitigation investigated thoroughly.
the results of internal audits work and of risks.
monitors the status of recommendations Clearly defined guidelines have been arising.
The committee reviews annually Effective controls ensure that the groups established for capital expenditure and the adequacy, qualifications and exposure to avoidable risk is minimised, investment decisions.
These include experience of the groups internal audit that proper accounting records are the preparation of budgets, appraisal resources and the nature and scope of maintained, that the financial information and review procedures, and delegated internal audit activity in the overall context used within the business is reliable and authority levels.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance | Corporate governance | 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of the groups risk management system.
The Senior Independent Director is NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Director of Financial Control meets available to shareholders in the event with the chairman of the Audit committee that communication with the Chairman, Members as appropriate but at least annually, Chief Executive or Finance Director without the presence of executive has failed to resolve concerns or During the year and at the date of thisreport: management, and has direct access where such contact is inappropriate.
Charles Sinclair Chairman to the Chairman of the board.
The Senior Independent Director Ruth Cairnie appointed 1 November 2015 attended sufficient meetings with a Tim Clarke Remuneration range of major shareholders to listen Javier Ferrn A separate Remuneration report is set to their views in order to help develop Lord Jay out on pages 74 to 89 and provides details a balanced understanding of their Peter Smith of our remuneration policy and how it issues and concerns.
has been implemented, together with the Key duties activities of the Remuneration committee.
The Company Secretary acts as a In accordance with its terms of reference, focal point for communications on Articles of association and the Nomination committees key matters of corporate governance share capital duties include: and corporate responsibility.
Information in relation to share capital, leading the process for board appointments the appointment and powers of directors, Annual general meeting AGM and making recommendations to the board: and the issue and buy back of shares The AGM will be held on Friday, regularly reviewing the board structure, and significant interests in share capital 4 December 2015 at 11.00 am at the size and composition including the skills, is set out in the Directors report on Congress Centre in London.
The board knowledge, independence, experience pages 90 to 92. views the AGM as a valuable opportunity and diversity, recommending any necessary changes: to communicate with private shareholders Relations with shareholders in particular, for whom it provides the considering plans for orderly succession Engaging with shareholders for appointments to the board and to senior opportunity to hear about the general The board works to engage effectively management to maintain an appropriate development of the business and to ask with the Companys shareholders balance of skills and experience within questions of the Chairman and, through so that both its objectives and those the Company and to ensure progressive him, the chairmen of the key committees of shareholders are understood.
refreshment of the board: and other directors.
keeping under review the leadership The Company announces its achievements The practice has been for a short film needs of the group, both executive and and prospects to shareholders by way to be shown at the meeting explaining non-executive, to ensure the continued of the interim results and annual report a particular area of the groups business.
ability of the group organisation to and accounts.
Significant matters compete efficiently in the marketplace: At this years AGM, the film will focus relating to the trading or development on Primark and the lengths to which making recommendations to the board of the business are disseminated to the business goes in preparing to enter about suitable candidates for the role the market by way of Stock Exchange of senior independent director, and new markets.
For its arrival in the announcements and by press release membership of the audit and remuneration north-east of the USA, this approach and postings on the Companys website.
committees in consultation with the has been raised to another level with chairman of the relevant committee: The board continues to promote effective local research, high attention to detail making recommendations to the board engagement with its shareholders.
about the re-election of directors by The Chairman invites larger institutional The Notice of AGM, which sets out in shareholders in accordance with the shareholders each year to discuss their full the resolutions for consideration by Companys articles of association views on the groups approach on and the Code: and shareholders together with explanatory governance, strategy and remuneration.
notes, has been sent to shareholders ensuring that the Company offers an The Chief Executive and Finance Director appropriate dialogue with shareholders and is also available on the Investors have met institutional shareholders about succession planning, the section of the Companys website and financial analysts on a regular basis appointment of directors and the www.
throughout the year to discuss the work of the Committee.
Companys business strategy and current performance.
At each board meeting, Governance the directors are briefed on shareholder Members of the Nomination committee meetings that have taken place and on are appointed by the board from the feedback received.
amongst the directors of the Company, in consultation with the Chairman.
The committee comprises a minimum of three members at any time, a majority of whom are independent non-executive directors.
A quorum consists of two members being either two independent non-executive directors or one independent non-executive director and the Chairman.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance | Corporate governance | 69 Only members of the committee and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT have the right to attend committee of Conduct for Executive Search Firms meetings.
Other individuals such as the on gender diversity and best practice.
Members Chief Executive, members of senior Potential candidates were considered management, head of human resources During the year and at the date of thisreport: on the basis of their skills and experience and external advisors may be invited to Peter Smith Chairman in the context of the range of skills and attend meetings as and when appropriate.
Lord Jay experience of the existing board as Javier Ferrn until 26 October 2015 The Chairman does not chair the a whole.
Ruth Cairnie Nomination committee when it is dealing Following a rigorous process of Wolfhart Hauser from 13 April 2015 with the appointment of his successor.
interviews and assessments and, on In these circumstances the committee is Key duties the recommendation of the Nomination chaired by an independent non-executive committee, the board approved the In accordance with its terms of reference, director elected by the remaining members.
appointment of Wolfhart Hauser with the Audit committees key duties include: The committee may take independent effect from 14 January 2015. monitoring the integrity of the groups professional advice on any matters financial statements and any formal Diversity policy at board level covered by its terms of reference at announcements relating to the Companys As a board, we recognise that diversity is the Companys expense.
performance, reviewing significant financial key for introducing different perspectives reporting judgements contained in them The committee chairman reports the into board debate and decision-making.
before their submission to the outcome of meetings to the board.
A genuinely diverse board comprises board for approval: individuals with a range of personal The terms of reference of the Nomination on matters of financial reporting: reviewing attributes, perspectives, skills, experience and challenging where necessary, the committee, which were reviewed and and backgrounds, as well as representing consistency of, and any changes to, updated during the year, are available on differences in nationality, race and gender.
accounting and treasury policies: whether the Investors section of the Companys the group has followed appropriate website www.
It is the boards policy to make new accounting policies and made appropriate appointments based on merit, recognising Board appointments process estimates and judgements: the clarity and that gender remains an important aspect completeness of disclosure: significant The process for making new of the overall diversity which is crucial adjustments resulting from the audit: the appointments is led by the Chairman.
to creating an optimal board in terms going concern assumption and compliance Where appropriate, external, independent of balance and composition.
Candidates with auditing standards: consultants are engaged to conduct a for future board appointments will be at the request of the board, reviewing the search for potential candidates, who are considered from the widest possible pool, content of the annual report and accounts considered on the basis of their skills, although any executive search agencies and advising the board on whether, experience and fit with the existing taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced engaged will be asked to ensure that half members of the board.
The Nomination and understandable and provides the of the candidates they put forward for committee has procedures for appointing information necessary for shareholders consideration are women.
a non-executive or an executive director to assess the Companys position and and these are set out in its terms Re-election of non-executive directors performance, business model and strategy: of reference.
The committee reviewed the results of where requested by the board, assisting the annual board performance evaluation in relation to the boards assessment Meetings that related to the composition of the of the principal risks facing the Company The committee met once during the year board and whether the time needed and the prospects of the Company for under review.
the purposes of disclosures required in to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior the annual report and accounts: Committee activities during the year Independent Director and non-executive Appointment of new independent director was appropriate.
It was satisfied reviewing the effectiveness of the groups internal financial controls, including the non-executive director that all members of the board are policies and overall process for assessing The Nomination committee and the board devoting sufficient time to their duties.
established systems of internal financial adhere to the principle that appointments The committee considered the re-election control and timeliness and effectiveness to the board should be made on the basis of directors prior to their recommended of corrective action taken by management: of merit.
approval by shareholders at the AGM.
overseeing the groups policies, During the year, the Chairman led the The non-executive directors who have procedures and controls for preventing process for the appointment of a new been on the board for more than six bribery, identifying money laundering, and the groups arrangements for independent non-executive director as years were subject to particularly whistleblowing: part of an ongoing programme for the rigorous review.
monitoring and reviewing the role and progressive refreshing of the board.
Performance review effectiveness of the groups internal The services of external executive The performance of the committee was audit function in the context of the search consulting firm, Spencer Stuart, evaluated as part of the annual board groups overall financial risk management were retained to help identify potential performance evaluation and it was found system: and candidates.
Spencer Stuart is independent, to be operating effectively.
with no other connection to the Company, Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance | Corporate governance | 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE matters which may influence the Activities during the year Key duties continued presentation of accounts and key figures: In order to fulfil its terms of reference, overseeing the relationship with the groups the Audit committee receives and the principles of, and developments external auditors, reporting to the board reviews presentations and reports in, company law, sector-specific laws each year whether it considers the audit from the groups senior management, and other relevant corporate legislation: contract should be put out to tender taking consulting as necessary with the into account any legal requirements for the role of internal and external external auditors.
tendering or rotation of the audit contract, auditing and risk management: and reviewing and monitoring their objectivity Monitoring the integrity of and independence including seeking the regulatory framework for the reported financial information information from the external auditor groups businesses.
Ensuring the integrity of the financial on an annual basis about its policies and statements and associated The committee invites the Group Finance procedures for maintaining independence, announcements is a fundamental agreeing the scope of their work and Director, Group Financial Controller, responsibility of the Audit committee.
fees paid to them for audit, assessing Director of Financial Control and senior the effectiveness of the audit process, representatives of the external auditors During the year it formally reviewed and agreeing the policy in relation to to attend its meetings in full, although it the groups interim and annual reports, the provision of non-audit services.
reserves the right to request any of these including the associated pre-close individuals to withdraw.
Other senior period trading updates, and the trading Governance managers are invited to present such updates issued for the first and third The Audit committee comprises a reports as are required for the committee quarters.
These reviews considered: minimum of three members, all of whom to discharge its duties.
the accounting principles, policies are independent non-executive directors During the year, the committee held and practices adopted in the groups of the Company.
Two members constitute four meetings with the external auditors financial statements, any proposed a quorum.
Appointments are for a period without any executive members of the changes to them, and the adequacy of three years after which they are subject board being present.
of their disclosure in the annual report: to annual review, extendable by two further three-year periods so long as The committee has unrestricted access important accounting issues, areas of members continue to be independent.
to Company documents and information, complexity and the actions, estimates Any term beyond six years is subject as well as to employees of the Company and judgements of management in to particularly rigorous review.
The and the external auditors.
relation to financial reporting: membership of the Audit committee has The committee may take independent any significant adjustments to financial been refreshed over the last few months: professional advice on any matters reporting arising from the audit: Wolfhart Hauser was appointed as a covered by its terms of reference at member of the committee on 13 April litigation and contingent liabilities the Companys expense.
2015, Javier Ferrn stepped down as a affecting the group: and member on 26 October 2015.
Lord Jay will The committee chairman reports the potential tax contingencies, compliance cease to be a member of the committee outcome of meetings to the board.
with statutory tax obligations and the on his retirement as a non-executive The committees effectiveness is reviewed groups tax policy.
director on 30 November 2015. on an annual basis as part of the boards Significant accounting issues The committee structure requires performance evaluation process.
considered by the Audit the inclusion of one financially qualified The terms of reference of the Audit committee in relation to the member as recognised by the Consultative committee were reviewed and updated groups financial statements Committee of Accountancy Bodies with during the year and can be viewed on In the preparation of these financial recent and relevant financial experience.
the Investors section of the Companys statements a number of areas required Currently, the committee chairman fulfils website www.
the exercise of management judgement this requirement.
All committee members or a degree of estimation.
Set out opposite are expected to be financially literate Meetings are the areas considered by the Audit and to have an understanding of the The Audit committee met five times committee to be the most significant following areas: during the year including an additional accounting issues and how the committee meeting related to the tendering of the the principles of, and developments concluded that such judgements and external audit.
The committee agenda in, financial reporting including the estimates were appropriate.
These are linked to events in the groups applicable accounting standards and are divided into those that could have financial calendar.
statements of recommended practice: a material impact on the financial statements and those that are less key aspects of the Companys operations likely to have a material impact but including corporate policies and the nevertheless, by their nature, required groups internal control environment: a degree of estimation.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance | Corporate governance | 71 Significant accounting issues material Audit committee assurance to the group financial statements Impairment of goodwill, The committee considered the reasonableness of cash flow projections which were based intangible and tangible assets on the most recent budget approved by the board and reflected managements expectations Assessment for impairment involves of sales growth, operating costs and margins based on past experience and external sources comparing the book value of an asset of information.
Long-term growth rates for periods not covered by the annual budget were with its recoverable amount being the challenged to ensure they were appropriate for the products, industries and countries in which higher of value in use and fair value less the relevant cash generating units operate.
The committee also reviewed and challenged costs to sell.
Value in use is determined the key assumptions made in deriving these projections: discount rates, growth rates, with reference to projected future cash and expected changes in production and sales volumes, selling prices and direct costs.
flows discounted at an appropriate rate.
The committee also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of the key Both the cash flows and the discount assumptions and sensitivities.
Refer to notes 8 and 9 to the financial statements for more rate involve a significant degree of details of these assumptions.
The committee was satisfied that the discount rate assumptions appropriately reflected current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the particular assets.
The other key assumptions were all considered to be reasonable.
The external auditor explained the results of their own review of the estimate of value in use, including their challenge of managements underlying cash flow projections as well as the long-term growth assumptions and discount rates.
On the basis of their audit work, and their challenge of the key assumptions and associated sensitivites, they concurred with managements conclusion that no impairments were required.
Tax provisions The committee annually reviews the Companys principles for managing tax risks.
The level of current and deferred tax The committee reviewed and challenged the provisions recorded at the balance sheet recognised in the financial statements date and management confirmed that they represent their best estimate of the likely is dependent on subjective judgements financial exposure faced by the group.
as to the outcome of decisions by tax The external auditor explained to the committee the work they had conducted during the authorities in various jurisdictions around year, including how their audit procedures were focused on those provisions requiring the world and the ability of the group the highest degree of judgement.
The committee discussed with both management to use tax losses within the time limits and the external auditor the key judgements which had been made.
It was satisfied that imposed by the various tax authorities.
the judgements were reasonable and that, accordingly, the provision amounts recorded See also references to taxation on page 46. were appropriate.
Other accounting areas requiring Audit committee assurance management judgement or estimation Biological assets The sugar business has a good track record of calculating reliable estimates and any significant The valuation of growing sugar cane over or under-estimation becomes apparent in subsequent profit realisation.
requires management to estimate: Actual results were reviewed for consistency of measurement in the light of profit budgets and forecasts and the actual results of prior periods.
The committee was satisfied that appropriate the sucrose content in the cane and assumptions had been made and consistently applied.
As biological assets represent just the expected cane and sucrose yields 1% of total assets and 2% of net assets, material misstatement of the financial statements for the following season taking into was considered unlikely.
account weather conditions, harvesting programmes, and an assessment of The committee also reviewed the adequacy of disclosures in respect of the sensitivities the maturity of the cane at the balance to unobservable inputs on the fair valuation of biological assets note 10. sheet date: and the sucrose price, which depends on the markets to which the forthcoming crop is likely to be sold, the probable domestic and export prices, and related foreign currency exchange rates.
Actuarial valuations of the groups pension schemes are undertaken every three years by Post-retirement benefits independent qualified actuaries who also provide advice to management on the assumptions Valuation of the groups pension schemes to be used in preparing the accounting valuations each year.
Details of the assumptions made and post-retirement medical benefit schemes in the current and previous two years are disclosed in note 12 of the financial statements require various subjective judgements to together with the bases on which those assumptions have been made.
be made including mortality assumptions, discount rates and general inflation, The committee reviewed the assumptions by comparison with externally derived data and salary inflation, and the rate of increase also considered the adequacy of disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the surplus or for pensions in payment and those deficit to changes in these key assumptions.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance | Corporate governance | 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Misstatements changes since the last annual disposals: certain specified tax services Management reported to the Committee assessment of the significant financial including tax compliance, tax planning that they were not aware of any material risks and the groups ability to respond and related implementation advice: and or immaterial misstatements made to changes in its business and the certain other services when it is in the intentionally to achieve a particular external environment.
best interests of the Company to do presentation.
The auditors reported to so and they can be undertaken without Whistleblowing and fraud the committee the misstatements that jeopardising auditor independence.
The groups whistleblowing policy they had found in the course of their work.
No individually significant non-audit contains arrangements for an independent After due consideration the committee assignments that would require disclosure external service provider to receive, in concurred with management that no were undertaken in the financial year.
confidence, complaints on accounting, adjustments were required.
The extent to which non-audit services risk issues, internal controls, auditing may be provided by the group auditor Internal financial control and risk issues and related matters for reporting will be kept under review in light of management to the Audit committee as appropriate.
new restrictions to be introduced by The committee is required to assist the The Audit committee reviewed reports EU legislation which comes into effect board to fulfil its responsibilities relating from internal audit and the external service in 2016. to the adequacy and effectiveness provider and the actions arising therefrom.
of the control environment, controls The Company has a policy that any The groups anti-fraud policy has been over financial reporting and the groups recruits hired directly from the external communicated to all employees and states compliance with the UK Corporate auditors must be pre-approved by the that all employees have a responsibility Governance Code.
To fulfil these duties, Group HR Director, and the Group Finance for fraud prevention and detection.
Any the committee reviewed: Director or Group Financial Controller, suspicion of fraud should be reported with the chairman of the Audit committee the external auditors management immediately and will be investigated being consulted as appropriate.
letters and their Audit committee vigorously.
The Audit committee reviewed memoranda: all instances of fraud perpetrated against The Audit committee has formally the Company and the action taken reviewed the independence of its internal audit reports on key audit by management both to pursue the auditors.
KPMG LLP has provided a letter areas and significant deficiencies in perpetrators and to prevent recurrences.
confirming that it believes it remained the financial control environment: independent throughout the year, within External audit reports on the systems of internal the meaning of the regulations on this Auditor independence financial controls and risk management: matter and in accordance with their The Audit committee is responsible for professional standards.
reports on fraud perpetrated against the development, implementation and the group: and monitoring of policies and procedures To fulfil its responsibility to ensure the on the use of the external auditors for independence of the external auditors, the groups approach to IT, cyber non-audit services, in accordance with the Audit committee reviewed: security and whistleblowing.
changes in external audit executives Internal audit These policies are kept under review to in the audit plan for the current year: The Audit committee is required to meet the objective of ensuring that the assist the board to fulfil its responsibilities group benefits in a cost-effective manner a report from the external auditors relating to the adequacy of the resourcing from the cumulative knowledge and describing their arrangements to and plans of internal audit.
To fulfil these experience of its auditors whilst also identify, report and manage any duties, the committee reviewed: ensuring that the auditors maintain the conflicts of interest: and necessary degree of independence and the extent of non-audit services internal audits reporting lines and objectivity.
Consequently, any non-audit provided by the external auditors.
access to the committee and all work to be undertaken by the auditor in members of the board: excess of 300,000 requires authorisation The total fees paid to KPMG LLP for internal audits plans and its by the chairman of the Audit committee the year ended 12 September 2015 achievement of the planned activity: and the Group Finance Director prior to its were 8.0m of which 2.3m related commencement.
Individual assignments to non-audit work.
Further details are the results of key audits and other less than 300,000 are approved by the provided in note 2 to the financial significant findings, the adequacy of Group Finance Director.
managements response and the expenditure with the group auditors is Consideration is also given by the timeliness of their resolution: reviewed by the Audit committee.
Audit committee to the need to include statistics on staff numbers, the risk of the withdrawal of the external The committee is required to approve qualifications and experience and auditors from the market in its risk the use of the external auditors to provide: timeliness of reporting: evaluation and planning.
accounting advice and training: employee the nature and extent of non-audit benefit plan audits: corporate responsibility, activity performed by internal IT and other assurance services: due audit: and diligence in respect of acquisitions and Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance | Corporate governance | 73 Auditor effectiveness As indicated last year, in light of the To assess the effectiveness of the external requirements of the UK Corporate auditors, the committee reviewed: Governance Code and other recent changes to the EU regulatory framework, the external auditors fulfilment of the the committee undertook a competitive agreed audit plan and variations from it: tender for the external audit, KPMG reports highlighting the major issues having been the groups auditor since that arose during the course of 1935.
KPMG did not participate in the the audit: tender process.
This process involved: presentations to the Audit committee feedback from the businesses by the three tendering firms, addressing evaluating the performance of each the key business risks and their proposed assigned audit team: and audit approach: individual meetings of the a report from the Audit Quality tendering firms with all of the divisional Review Team of the Financial and functional management teams, Reporting Council.
executive management and members of the Audit committee: the presentation The Audit committee holds private of written tender documents: and a final meetings with the external auditors after presentation to a selection committee each committee meeting to review key chaired by the chairman of the Audit issues within their sphere of interest committee and comprising executive and and responsibility.
non-executive directors and the Group To fulfil its responsibility for oversight Financial Controller.
The result of this of the external audit process, the Audit comprehensive tender process was that, committee reviewed: on the recommendation of the committee, the board selected Ernst & Young LLP as the terms, areas of responsibility, auditor for the year ending 17 September associated duties and scope of 2016.
Accordingly, shareholder approval the audit as set out in the external will be sought to confirm the appointment auditors engagement letter: of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the the overall work plan and fee proposal: Company at the AGM on 4 December 2015. the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the level of errors identified during the audit: and recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letters and the adequacy of managements response.
Auditor appointment The Audit committee reviews annually the appointment of the auditor, taking into account the auditors effectiveness and independence, and makes a recommendation to the board accordingly.
Any decision to open the external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit committee.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the companys current choice of external auditor.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
