Corporate Governance Board of Directors as at 31 December 2015 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 Leif Johansson 64 2 Pascal Soriot 56 3 Marc Dunoyer 63 Non-Executive Chairman of the Board Executive Director and CEO October 2012 Executive Director and CFO November 2013 April 2012 Skills and experience Pascal brings significant Skills and experience Marcs career in Committee membership Chairman of the experience in established and emerging markets, pharmaceuticals, which has included periods Nomination and Governance Committee and strength of strategic thinking, a successful track with Roussel Uclaf, Hoechst Marion Roussel member of the Remuneration Committee record of managing change and executing strategy, and GlaxoSmithKline GSK, has given him and the ability to lead a diverse organisation.
extensive industry experience, including finance Skills and experience From 1997 to 2011, Leif was He served as Chief Operating Officer of Roches and accounting: corporate strategy and planning: Chief Executive Officer of AB Volvo.
Prior to that, he pharmaceuticals division from 2010 to September research and development: sales and marketing: served at AB Electrolux, latterly as Chief Executive 2012 and, prior to that, Chief Executive Officer of business reorganisation: and business development.
He was a Non-Executive Genentech, a biologics business, where he led its Marc is a qualified accountant and joined AstraZeneca Director of BMS from 1998 to September 2011, successful merger with Roche.
Pascal joined the in 2013, serving as Executive Vice-President, GPPS serving on the Boards Audit Committee, and pharmaceutical industry in 1986 and has worked from June to October 2013.
Prior to that, he served Compensation and Management Development in senior management roles in numerous major as Global Head of Rare Diseases at GSK and Committee.
He holds an MSc in engineering from companies around the world.
He is a doctor of concurrently Chairman, GSK Japan.
He holds Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg.
veterinary medicine cole Nationale Vtrinaire an MBA from HEC, Paris and a Bachelor of Law Other appointments Leif is Chairman of global dAlfort, Maisons-Alfort and holds an MBA from degree from Paris University.
He holds board positions at Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA and Ecolean AB.
He has been a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences since 1994, serving as Chairman since 2012.
Leif is also a member of the European Round Table of Industrialists and Chairman of the International Advisory Board of the Nobel Foundation.
86 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance 4 Rudy Markham 69 Other appointments In May 2015, Genevive was 10 Jean-Philippe Courtois 55 Senior independent Non-Executive Director appointed as a Director of Air Liquide S. A. for a term Non-Executive Director February 2008 April 2015.
Member of the Board since of four years.
She is currently Chief Research Officer Committee membership Member of the Audit September 2008 at Firmenich SA, Geneva, Switzerland.
Committee 7 Bruce Burlington 67 Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Skills and experience Jean-Philippe has more Non-Executive Director August 2010 Committee and member of the Remuneration than 30 years experience in the global technology Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee membership Chairman of the Science industry.
He is President of Microsoft International Committee Committee and member of the Audit Committee and previously served as Chief Executive Officer Skills and experience Rudy has significant and the Nomination and Governance Committee and President of Microsoft EMEA.
Jean-Philippe international business and financial experience, has also served as Co-Chairman of the World Skills and experience Bruce is a pharmaceutical having formerly held various senior commercial Economic Forums Global Digital Divide Initiative product development and regulatory affairs and financial positions with Unilever, culminating Task Force and on the European Commission consultant and brings extensive experience in these in his appointment as its Chief Financial Officer.
Information and Communication Technology Task areas.
He spent 17 years with the FDA, serving as Force.
In 2009, he served as an EU Ambassador Other appointments Rudy is Chairman and a Director of its Center for Devices and Radiological for the Year of Creativity and Innovation and, in 2011, Non-Executive Director of Moorfields Eye Hospital Health, as well as holding various senior roles was named one of Techs Top 25 by The Wall NHS Foundation Trust and a non-executive member in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.
of the Boards of United Parcel Services Inc. and After leaving the FDA, he held various senior Legal & General plc.
He is also Vice Chairman of executive positions at Wyeth now part of Pfizer.
Other appointments Jean-Philippe is a board the Supervisory Board of Corbion NV formerly member of PlaNet Finance, a leading international Other appointments Bruce is a Non-Executive CSM NV, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of microfinance organisation.
Director of the International Partnership Management Accountants and a Fellow of the for Microbicides.
11 Shriti Vadera 53 Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He served Non-Executive Director January 2011 8 Ann Cairns 58 as a Non-Executive Director of the UK Financial Non-Executive Director April 2014 Committee membership Member of the Audit Reporting Council from 2007 to 2012.
Committee and the Remuneration Committee 5 Dr Cornelia Bargmann 54 Committee membership Member of the Audit Non-Executive Director April 2015 Committee Skills and experience Shriti has significant knowledge of global finance, emerging markets and Skills and experience Ann has more than Committee membership Member of the Science public policy.
She has advised governments, banks 20 years in-depth financial and international Committee and investors on the eurozone crisis, the banking business experience and currently serves as Skills and experience Cornelia Cori is the Torsten sector, debt restructuring and markets.
She has President, International Markets, for MasterCard.
N. Wiesel Professor and head of the Lulu and served as a G20 Adviser and a Minister in the UK Before joining MasterCard in 2011, Ann oversaw the Anthony Wang Laboratory of Neural Circuits and Cabinet Office and Business Department and European liquidation of Lehman Brothers Holdings Behavior at The Rockefeller University, New York.
She has International and was the Chief Executive, She has held this position since 2004.
Cori holds also served on the Council of Economic Advisers, Transaction Banking at ABN AMRO.
At the start a degree in biochemistry from the University of HM Treasury, where she focused on business and of her career, Ann was an award-winning research Georgia and a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute international economic issues.
Prior to that, Shriti engineer, culminating as the head of Offshore of Technology MIT.
She pursued a postdoctoral spent 14 years in investment banking with SG Engineer-Planning for British Gas.
She holds a BSc fellowship with H. Robert Horvitz at MIT until 1991, Warburg UBS.
in pure mathematics from Sheffield University and when she accepted a faculty position in the an MSc with research into medical statistics from Other appointments Shriti is Chairman of Department of Anatomy at the University of Newcastle University in the UK.
Santander UK plc and Senior Independent Director California, San Francisco, spending 13 years there, of BHP Billiton.
9 Graham Chipchase 52 before moving to Rockefeller.
She has been a Non-Executive Director April 2012 12 Marcus Wallenberg 59 Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator since Non-Executive Director April 1999 1995.
Cori was awarded the Benjamin Franklin Committee membership Chairman of the Medal in Life Science in 2015.
Remuneration Committee and member of the Committee membership Member of the Science 6 Genevive Berger 60 Nomination and Governance Committee Committee Non-Executive Director April 2012 Skills and experience Graham has served as Skills and experience Marcus has international Chief Executive Officer of global consumer business experience across various industry Committee membership Member of the Science packaging company, Rexam PLC since 2010 sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry Committee and oversees sustainability matters on after serving at Rexam as Group Director, Plastic from his directorship with Astra prior to 1999. behalf of the Board Packaging and Group Finance Director.
Previously, Other appointments Marcus is Chairman of Skills and experience Genevive was Chief he was Finance Director of Aerospace Services at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Saab AB and Science Officer at Unilever PLC and a member the global engineering group GKN PLC from 2001 FAM AB.
He is a member of the boards of Investor of the Unilever Leadership Executive from 2008 to to 2003.
After starting his career with Coopers & AB, Temasek Holdings Limited, and the Knut and April 2014.
She holds three doctorates in physics, Lybrand Deloitte, he held various finance roles in the Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
human biology and medicine and was appointed industrial gases company The BOC Group PLC Professor of Medicine at lUniversit Pierre et Marie now part of The Linde Group.
He is a Fellow of the Curie, Paris in 2006.
Her previous positions include Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Date of appointment.
Professor and Hospital Practitioner at lHpital fide la Wales and holds an MA Hons in chemistry from Piti-Salptrire in Paris: Director of the Biotech and Oriel College, Oxford.
Agri-Food Department: Head of the Technology Directorate at the French Ministry of Research and Technology: Director General, at the Centre National fide la Recherche Scientifique: and Chairman of the Health Advisory Board of the EU Commission.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 87
