Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Board composition documented.
The Board provides adequate As part of the business of each Board The membership of the Board at resources to enable each Committee to meeting, the CEO typically submits a 31 December 2015 and information about undertake its duties.
progress report, giving details of business individual Directors is contained in the Board performance and progress against the goals Reserved matters and delegation of Directors section on pages 86 and 87. the Board has approved.
To ensure that the of authority Board has good visibility of the key operating Corporate governance The Board maintains and periodically decisions of the business, members of We have prepared this Annual Report with reviews a list of matters that are reserved to, the SET attend Board meetings regularly reference to the UK Corporate Governance and can only be approved by, the Board.
and Board members meet other senior Code published by the UK Financial These include: the appointment, termination executives throughout the year.
The Board Reporting Council FRC in September 2014. and remuneration of any Director: approval also receives accounting and other of the annual budget: approval of any item of management information about our This Corporate Governance Report fixed capital expenditure or any proposal for resources, and presentations from internal together with other sections of this Annual the acquisition or disposal of an investment and external speakers on legal, governance Report describes how we apply the main or business which exceeds $150 million: the and regulatory developments.
At the end of principles of good governance in the UK raising of capital or loans by the Company Board meetings, the Non-Executive Directors Corporate Governance Code.
We have subject to certain exceptions : the giving of meet without the Executive Directors present complied throughout the accounting period any guarantee in respect of any borrowing to review and discuss any matters that have with the provisions of the UK Corporate of the Company: and allotting shares of the arisen during the meeting and or such other Governance Code, which is available on Company.
The matters that have not been matters as may appear to the Non-Executive the FRCs website, www.
expressly reserved to the Board are Directors to be relevant in properly delegated by the Board to its Committees Leadership and responsibilities discharging their duty to act independently.
The roles of Chairman and CEO are Board effectiveness split.
Leif Johansson, our Non-Executive The CEO is responsible to the Board Composition of the Board, succession Chairman, is responsible for leadership of for the management, development and planning and diversity the Board.
Our CEO, Pascal Soriot, leads performance of our business for those The Nomination and Governance the SET and has executive responsibility for matters for which he has been delegated Committee and, where appropriate, the running our business.
The Board comprises authority from the Board.
Although the CEO full Board, regularly review the composition 10 Non-Executive Directors, including the retains full responsibility for the authority of the Board and the status of succession Chairman, and two Executive Directors delegated to him by the Board, he has to both senior executive management the CEO, Pascal Soriot, and the CFO, Marc established, and chairs, the SET, which is and Board level positions.
Its responsibilities are set out in the the vehicle through which he exercises that regular contact with, and access to, Corporate Governance overview on pages authority in respect of our business.
succession candidates for senior executive 84 and 85. management positions.
The roles of the Board, Board Committees, Rudy Markham, who joined the Board Chairman and CEO are documented, as The Board aims to maintain a balance as a Non-Executive Director in 2008, are the Boards reserved powers and in terms of the range of experience and was appointed as our Senior independent delegated authorities.
skills of individual Board members, which Non-Executive Director in April 2015. includes relevant international business, The role of the Senior independent Operation of the Board pharmaceutical industry and financial Non-Executive Director is to serve as a The Board discharges its responsibilities experience, as well as appropriate scientific sounding board for the Chairman and as as set out in the Corporate Governance and regulatory knowledge.
The biographies an intermediary for the other Directors overview on pages 84 and 85 through of Board members set out on pages 86 when necessary.
The Senior independent a programme of meetings that includes and 87 give more information about current Non-Executive Director is also available regular reviews of financial performance Directors in this respect.
The Board views to shareholders if they have concerns and critical business issues, and the formal gender, nationality and cultural diversity that contact through the normal channels annual strategy review day.
The Board also among Board members as important of Chairman or Executive Directors has aims to ensure that a good dialogue with considerations when reviewing the failed to resolve, or for which such contact our shareholders is maintained and that composition of the Board.
their issues and concerns are understood recognises, in particular, the importance and considered.
As shown in the Corporate Governance of gender diversity.
Currently, 40% of the overview, there are four principal Board The Board held six meetings in 2015, Companys Non-Executive Directors are Committees.
The membership and work including its usual annual strategy review.
women and women make up 33% of the full of these Committees is described on the Five took place in London, UK and one was Board.
Although it has not set any specific following pages.
In addition, there may from held at the offices of AstraZenecas French measurable objectives, the Board intends time to time be constituted ad hoc Board marketing company in Rueil-Malmaison, to continue with its current approach to Committees for specific projects or tasks.
The Board is currently scheduled diversity in all its aspects, while at the same to meet six times in 2016, and will meet at time seeking Board members of the highest In these cases, the scope and such other times as may be required to calibre, and with the necessary experience responsibilities of the Committee are conduct business.
and skills to meet the needs of the 90 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance Company and its shareholders.
Information of Wallenberg charitable foundations are Groups business.
In practice, Board about our approach to diversity in the connected.
For these reasons, the Board members time commitment exceeds this organisation below Board level can be found does not believe that he can be determined minimum expectation when all the work that in Employees from page 52. independent under the UK Corporate they undertake for the Group is considered, Governance Code.
However, the Board particularly in the case of the Chairman of The following changes to the composition believes that he has brought, and continues the Board and the Chairmen of the Board of the Board and its Committees have to bring, considerable business experience Committees.
As well as their work in relation occurred during the period covered by and makes a valuable contribution to the to formal Board and Board Committee this Annual Report: work of the Board.
In April 2010, he was meetings, the Non-Executive Directors appointed as a member of the Science also commit time throughout the year to Shriti Vadera became a member of the Committee, reflecting his interest in meetings and telephone calls with various Remuneration Committee with effect from innovation and R&D, knowledge of the levels of executive management, visits to 17 February 2015. history of the Company and its scientific AstraZenecas sites throughout the world John Varley and Nancy Rothwell, both heritage and culture, and his broad and, for new Non-Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors, retired from the experience of other industries and induction sessions and site visits.
Board on 24 April 2015, each having businesses in which innovation and R&D served as a Board member for nine years.
On occasions when a Director is are important determinants of success.
With effect from 24 April 2015: unavoidably absent from a Board or Board Cori Bargmann was elected for the first Conflicts of interest Committee meeting, for example where time as a Non-Executive Director and The Articles enable the Directors to a meeting clashes with their existing became a member of the Science authorise any situation in which a Director commitments, they still receive and review Committee.
has an interest that conflicts or has the the papers for the meeting and typically Rudy Markham became Senior potential to conflict with the Companys provide verbal or written input ahead of the independent Non-Executive Director.
interests and which would otherwise be a meeting, usually through the Chairman of Graham Chipchase became Chairman breach of the Directors duty, under Section the Board or the Chairman of the relevant of the Remuneration Committee and 175 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board Board Committee, so that their views are a member of the Nomination and has a formal system in place for Directors to made known and considered at the Governance Committee.
declare such situations to be considered for meeting.
Given the nature of the business Bruce Burlington became Chairman of authorisation by those Directors who have to be conducted, some Board meetings are the Science Committee and a member no interest in the matter being considered.
convened at short notice, which can make it of the Nomination and Governance In deciding whether to authorise a situation, difficult for some Directors to attend due to Committee.
the non-conflicted Directors must act in the prior commitments.
Genevive Berger was nominated to way they consider, in good faith, would be oversee sustainability matters on behalf Information and support most likely to promote the success of the of the Board.
The Company Secretary is responsible Company, and they may impose limits or to the Chairman for ensuring that all conditions when giving the authorisation, Independence of the Non-Executive Board and Board Committee meetings or subsequently, if they think this is Directors are properly conducted, that the Directors appropriate.
Situations considered by During 2015, the Board considered the receive appropriate information prior the Board and authorisations given are independence of each Non-Executive to meetings to enable them to make recorded in the Board minutes and in a Director for the purposes of the UK an effective contribution, and that register of conflicts maintained by the Corporate Governance Code and the governance requirements are considered Company Secretary, and are reviewed corporate governance listing standards and implemented.
The Board believes of the NYSE Listing Standards.
With the that this system operates effectively.
The Company maintained Directors and exception of Marcus Wallenberg, the Board Officers Liability Insurance cover throughout considers that all of the Non-Executive Appointments to the Board 2015.
The Directors are also able to obtain Directors are independent.
Leif Johansson The Nomination and Governance independent legal advice at the expense was considered by the Board to be Committee section from page 93 provides of the Company, as necessary, in their independent upon his appointment as information about the appointment process capacity as Directors.
In accordance with the UK for new Directors.
Corporate Governance Code, the test of The Company has entered into a deed of Newly appointed Directors are provided independence is not appropriate in relation indemnity in favour of each Board member comprehensive information about the Group to the Chairman after his appointment.
These deeds of indemnity are and their role as Non-Executive Directors.
still in force and provide that the Company Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as They also typically attend tailored induction shall indemnify the Directors to the fullest a Director of Astra in May 1989 and programmes that take account of their extent permitted by law and the Articles, subsequently became a Director of the individual skills and experience.
in respect of all losses arising out of, or Company in 1999.
He is a Non-Executive Time commitment in connection with, the execution of their Director of Investor AB, which has a 4.1% Our expectation is that Non-Executive powers, duties and responsibilities as interest in the issued share capital of Directors should be prepared to commit 15 Directors of the Company or any of its the Company as at 4 February 2016. days a year, as an absolute minimum, to the subsidiaries.
This is in line with current Mr Wallenberg, Investor AB and a number AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 91 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2015 Board meetings Board Committee meetings Nomination and Name Audit Remuneration Governance Science 1 Cori Bargmann 4 4 4 4 Genevive Berger 5 6 3 6 2 Bruce Burlington 6 6 5 5 1 1 6 6 Ann Cairns 5 6 5 5 3 Graham Chipchase 6 6 7 7 1 1 Jean-Philippe Courtois 6 6 5 5 Marc Dunoyer 6 6 Leif Johansson 6 6 6 7 2 2 Rudy Markham 6 6 5 5 7 7 2 2 4 Nancy Rothwell 2 2 3 3 1 1 2 2 Pascal Soriot 6 6 5 Shriti Vadera 6 6 5 5 6 6 6 John Varley 2 2 3 3 1 1 Marcus Wallenberg 6 6 5 6 Note: number in brackets denotes number of meetings during the year that Board members were entitled to attend.
1 3 5 C ori Bargmann was elected as a Non-Executive Director G raham Chipchase became a member of the Nomination S hriti Vadera became a member of the Remuneration and became a member of the Science Committee with effect and Governance Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
Committee with effect from 17 February 2015.
N ancy Rothwell retired from the Board with effect from J ohn Varley retired from the Board with effect from 2 B ruce Burlington became a member of the Nomination and 24 April 2015.
Governance Committee with effect from 24 April 2015. market practice and helps us attract and in addition to the work done on CEO As part of each Directors individual retain high-quality, skilled Directors.
and CFO succession planning during discussion with the Chairman, his or her 2014 and 2015 by the Nomination and contribution to the work of the Board Performance evaluation Governance Committee.
and personal development needs were During the year, the Board conducted the Increasing the opportunities for Board considered.
Each Director continues to annual evaluation of its own performance members to meet executives immediately perform effectively and to demonstrate and that of its Committees and individual below SET-level, primarily to facilitate the commitment to his or her role.
The 2015 evaluation involved each Boards assessment of high-potential led by the Senior independent NonBoard member responding to a web-based people and their capabilities, and for Executive Director, the other Directors questionnaire prepared by Lintstock Ltd succession planning purposes.
absent the Chairman evaluated the Lintstock, a London-based corporate The importance of the continuing performance of the Chairman.
The reviews advisory firm that provides objective and dialogue with shareholders about of the Boards Committees did not raise any independent counsel to leading European executive remuneration, particularly that significant problems and concluded that companies.
Lintstock supplies software of the Executive Directors and SET the Committees are operating effectively.
and services to the Company Secretarys members, its link to individual and team for Board evaluation questionnaires The Board intends to continue to comply Company performance and the scope and for the management of insider lists but with the UK Corporate Governance Code for simplification.
has no other commercial relationship with guidance that the evaluation should be Board members wish to continue to hear the Company.
externally facilitated at least every three from external stakeholders during 2015, years and expects to commission the the Board met and received presentations In respect of the 2015 evaluation, overall next externally facilitated review in 2017. from, for example, medical practitioners it was concluded that the Board continues and clinical researchers in the oncology to operate effectively and in an open Re-election of Directors field, representatives of major institutional manner and no significant problems In accordance with Article 66 of the shareholders and financial analysts were raised.
The main themes arising Articles, all Directors retire at each AGM covering the Company and the from the responses to the questionnaire and may offer themselves for re-election pharmaceutical sector.
were discussed between the Chairman by shareholders.
Accordingly, all of the Board members suggestions for areas and individual Directors, and collectively Directors will retire at the AGM in April 2016. for further review by the Board during at the Board meeting in December 2015.
The Notice of AGM will give details of those 2016, such as the supply chain for These included: Directors seeking re-election.
biologics and the Companys productivity Board members wish to spend more Accountability and efficiency programmes.
time as a full Board considering Risk management and internal control Various practical matters, such as the succession planning for the key senior The Board has overall responsibility for format and content of Board papers and Board and executive roles in the our system of internal controls and risk whether more than one Board meeting Company Chairman, CEO and CFO management policies and has an ongoing each year should be held outside the UK.
responsibility for reviewing their 92 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance effectiveness.
During 2015, the Directors we aim to present a balanced and to which such contact is inappropriate.
continued to review the effectiveness of our understandable assessment of our strategy, All shareholders, including private investors, system of controls, risk management and financial position and prospects.
have an opportunity at the AGM to put high level internal control processes.
These questions to members of the Board We make information about the Group reviews included an assessment of internal about our operation and performance.
available to shareholders through a range controls and, in particular, financial, Formal notification of the AGM is sent to of media, including our corporate website, operational and compliance controls, and shareholders at least one month in advance.
com, which contains a risk management and their effectiveness, All Board members ordinarily attend the wide range of data of interest to institutional supported by management assurance of AGM to answer questions raised by and private investors.
We consider our the maintenance of controls reports from IA, shareholders.
In line with the UK Corporate website to be an important means of as well as the external auditor on matters Governance Code, details of proxy voting communication with our shareholders.
identified in the course of its statutory audit by shareholders, including votes withheld, work.
The system is designed to manage are given at the AGM and are posted on The Company has been authorised rather than eliminate the risk of failure to our website following the AGM.
by shareholders to place shareholder achieve business objectives and can only communications such as the Notice Nomination and Governance provide reasonable not necessarily of AGM and this Annual Report on the Committee absolute assurance of effective operation corporate website in lieu of sending paper The Nomination and Governance and compliance with laws and regulations.
copies to shareholders unless specifically Committees role is to recommend to the requested.
While recognising and The internal control framework was in Board any new Board appointments and respecting that some shareholders may operation throughout 2015 and continues to consider, more broadly, succession plans have different preferences about how to operate up to the date of the approval of at Board level.
It reviews the composition they receive information from us, we will this Annual Report.
The Directors believe of the Board using a matrix that records continue to promote the benefits of that the Group maintains an effective, the skills and experience of current Board electronic communication given the embedded system of internal controls and members, comparing this with the skills and advantages that this has over traditional complies with the FRCs guidance entitled experience it believes are appropriate to the paper-based communications, both in Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Companys overall business and strategic terms of the configurability and accessibility Control and Related Financial and Business needs, both now and in the future.
Any of the information provided and the Reporting and, in the view of the Directors, decisions relating to the appointment of consequent cost savings and reduction no significant deficiencies have been Directors are made by the entire Board in environmental impact.
based on the merits of the candidates and the relevance of their background and We have frequent discussions with More information about the ways in experience, measured against objective institutional shareholders on a range of which we manage our business risks criteria, with care taken to ensure that issues.
In addition to holding discussions and describe our principal risks and appointees have enough time to devote with groups of shareholders, we also hold uncertainties is set out in the Risk overview to our business.
individual meetings with some of our largest from page 21 and Risk from page 212. institutional shareholders to seek their views.
The Nomination and Governance Remuneration Board members are kept informed of any Committee also advises the Board Information about our approach to issues, and receive regular reports and periodically on significant developments remuneration and the role and work of the presentations from executive management in corporate governance and the Remuneration Committee, including our and our brokers to assist them to develop Companys compliance with the UK policy on executive remuneration, is set out an understanding of major shareholders Corporate Governance Code.
in the Directors Remuneration Report.
From time to time, including in 2015, we conduct an audit of During 2015, the Chairman of the Policy on external appointments and institutional shareholders to ensure that we Nomination and Governance Committee retention of fees are communicating clearly with them and was Leif Johansson.
The members of the Subject to specific Board approval in that a high-quality dialogue is being Nomination and Governance Committee each case, Executive Directors and other maintained.
The results of this audit are were Rudy Markham: Nancy Rothwell SET members may accept external reported to, and discussed by, the full and John Varley until their retirement from appointments as non-executive directors Board.
We also respond to individual ad hoc the Board on 24 April 2015: and Bruce of other companies, and retain any related requests for discussions from institutional Burlington and Graham Chipchase with fees paid to them, provided that such shareholders and analysts.
Our Investor effect from the same date.
Each member appointments are not considered by the Relations team acts as the main point of is a Non-Executive Director and considered Board to prevent or reduce the ability of the contact for investors throughout the year.
The Company executive to perform his or her role within As discussed above, the Senior independent Secretary acts as secretary to the the Group to the required standard.
Non-Executive Director, Rudy Markham, is Nomination and Governance Committee.
also available to shareholders if they have Relations with shareholders The Nomination and Governance concerns that contact through the normal In our quarterly, half yearly and annual Committee considers both planned and channels of Chairman, CEO and or financial and business reporting to unplanned unanticipated succession CFO has failed to resolve, or in relation shareholders and other interested parties, AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 93 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued scenarios and met twice in 2015, spending individual R&D projects but does review, Control over Financial Reporting in the the majority of its time on routine succession on behalf of the Board, the R&D aspects Financial Statements on page 135. planning internal and external for the roles of specific business development or We are required to disclose any significant of CEO and CFO, with the assistance acquisition proposals and advises the ways in which our corporate governance respectively of the search firms, Spencer Board on its conclusions.
practices differ from those followed by US Stuart and Hoggett Bowers, both of whom During 2015, the members of the Science companies under the Listing Standards.
periodically undertake executive search Committee, all of whom have a knowledge In addition, we must comply fully with the assignments for the Company.
In addition, of, or an interest in, life sciences, were provisions of the Listing Standards relating the Committee concluded the search that Nancy Rothwell Chairman of the Science to the composition, responsibilities and commenced in 2014 by recommending to Committee until her retirement from the operation of audit committees, applicable the Board that Cori Bargmann be proposed Board on 24 April 2015, Bruce Burlington to foreign private issuers.
These provisions for election by shareholders as a new Chairman of the Science Committee with incorporate the rules concerning audit Non-Executive Director at the AGM in 2015. effect from 24 April 2015, Cori Bargmann committees implemented by the SEC under The Zygos Partnership, a search firm that with effect from 24 April 2015, Genevive the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We have reviewed has no other connection to the Company, Berger and Marcus Wallenberg.
As usual, the corporate governance practices assisted the Committee with this work.
The the EVP, GMD: the EVP, IMED: and the EVP, required to be followed by US companies Committee also considered and made a MedImmune, participated in meetings of the under the Listing Standards and our number of recommendations to the Board Science Committee as co-opted members in corporate governance practices are concerning the membership of Board 2015.
The Vice-President, IMED Operations generally consistent with those standards.
Committees to reflect the changes in Board acts as secretary to the Science Committee.
membership that occurred during the year.
Business organisation The Science Committee met twice in Early Stage Product Committees ESPCs The attendance record of the Nomination person in 2015, in London, UK and and Late Stage Product Committee and Governance Committees members is Cambridge, UK and held four other LSPC set out on page 92. meetings, all of which were by telephone, The ESPCs and the LSPC were established The Nomination and Governance to review specific business development in 2013.
Committees terms of reference are available or acquisition proposals.
Early Stage Product Committees on our website, www.
The Science Committees terms of The ESPCs are senior level, cross-functional Science Committee reference are available on our website, governance bodies with accountability for The Science Committees core role is to www.
oversight of our early-stage small molecule provide assurance to the Board regarding and biologics portfolio to Proof of Concept US corporate governance requirements the quality, competitiveness and integrity stage.
The EVPs of our two science units, Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, of the Groups R&D activities by way of IMED and MedImmune, chair our ESPCs.
accordingly, we are subject to the reporting meetings and dialogue with our R&D The ESPCs seek to deliver a flow of and other requirements of the SEC leaders and other scientist employees: products to GMD for Phase III development applicable to foreign private issuers.
Section visits to our R&D sites throughout the through to launch.
The ESPCs also seek 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires world: and review and assessment of to maximise the value of our internal and companies to include in their annual report external R&D investments through robust, the approaches we adopt in respect on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, a report transparent and well-informed decision of our chosen therapy areas by management stating its responsibility for making that drives business performance the scientific technology and R&D establishing internal control over financial and accountability.
capabilities we deploy reporting and to assess annually the the decision-making processes for R&D effectiveness of such internal control.
We Specifically, the ESPCs have responsibility projects and programmes have complied with those provisions of the for the following the quality of our scientists and their Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign approving early-stage investment career opportunities and talent private issuers.
The Board continues to decisions development believe that the Group has a sound prioritising the respective portfolios benchmarking against industry and corporate governance framework, good licensing activity for products in Phase I scientific best practice, where processes for the accurate and timely and earlier appropriate.
reporting of its financial position and results delivering internal and external of operations, and an effective and robust opportunities The Science Committee periodically reviews system of internal controls.
We have reviewing allocation of R&D resources.
important bioethical issues that we face, established a Disclosure Committee, further and assists in the formulation of, and agrees details of which can be found in the Late Stage Product Committee on behalf of the Board, appropriate policies Disclosure Committee section opposite.
The LSPC is also a senior level governance in relation to such issues.
It may also The Directors assessment of the body, accountable for the quality of the consider, from time to time, future trends effectiveness of internal control over portfolio post-Phase III investment decision.
in medical science and technology.
The financial reporting is set out in Directors It was formed in early 2013, replacing three Science Committee does not review Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal committees, in a move to streamline 94 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance development project governance.
Jointly so far as they are each aware, there is independent and objective assurance chaired by the EVPs of GMD and GPPS, no relevant audit information of which the function guided by a philosophy of adding members include, as appropriate, members Companys auditors are unaware: and each value to improve the operations of the of the SET, including the CEO and CFO, Director has taken all the steps that he or Group.
The scope of IAs responsibilities and members of the GMD and GPPS she ought to have taken as a Director to encompasses, but is not limited to, the leadership teams.
make himself or herself aware of any examination and evaluation of the relevant audit information and to establish adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups The LSPC seeks to maximise the value that the Companys auditors are aware of governance, risk management, and internal of our investments in the late-stage that information.
control processes in relation to the Groups portfolio, also ensuring well-informed defined goals and objectives.
Specific Global Compliance and Internal Audit accountabilities include Services IA Internal control objectives considered by The role of the Global Compliance function IA include approval of the criteria supporting Proof is to help the Group achieve its strategic of Concept consistency of operations or programmes priorities by doing business the right way, decision to invest in Phase III development with established objectives and goals and with integrity and high ethical standards.
based on agreement of commercial effective performance During 2016, Global Compliance will opportunity and our plans to develop effectiveness and efficiency of operations continue to focus on ensuring the delivery the medicine and employment of resources of an aligned approach to compliance evaluation of the outcome of the compliance with significant policies, that addresses key risk areas across the development programme and decision plans, procedures, laws, and regulations business, including risks relating to external to proceed to regulatory filing reliability and integrity of management parties and anti-bribery anti-corruption.
decision to invest in life-cycle and financial information processes, Our priorities include improving compliance management activities for the late-stage including the means to identify, measure, behaviours through effective training: assets classify, and report such information monitoring compliance with our policies: decision to invest in late-stage business safeguarding of assets.
and ensuring that employees can raise any development opportunities.
Through the Group Compliance Based on its activity, IA is responsible for Council, Global Compliance and IA work Disclosure Committee reporting significant risk exposures and with various specialist compliance functions Our disclosure policy provides a framework control issues identified to the Board and throughout our organisation to co-ordinate for the handling and disclosure of inside to senior management, including fraud compliance activities.
information and other information of interest risks, governance issues, and other to shareholders and the investment When a potential compliance breach is matters needed or requested by the Audit community.
It also defines the role of the identified, an internal investigation is Committee.
It may also evaluate specific Disclosure Committee.
The members of undertaken by staff from our Global operations at the request of the Audit the Disclosure Committee in 2015 were: Compliance, HR and or Legal teams.
When Committee or management, as appropriate.
the CFO, who chaired the Disclosure appropriate, external advisers are engaged Code of Conduct Committee: the EVP, GMD who is also to conduct and or advise on investigations.
Our Code of Conduct the Code, the Companys Chief Medical Officer : the Should an investigation conclude that a which is available on our website, EVP, GPPS: the General Counsel: the significant breach has occurred, www.
com, applies worldwide Vice-President, Corporate Affairs: the management, in consultation with our Legal to all full-time and part-time Directors, Vice-President, Investor Relations: and the function, will consider whether the Group officers, employees and temporary staff, in Vice-President Finance, Group Controller.
needs to disclose and or report the findings all companies within our Group.
A Finance The Deputy Company Secretary acted as to a regulatory or governmental authority.
Code complements the Code and applies secretary to the Disclosure Committee.
Risk from page 212 to the CEO, the CFO, the Groups principal The Disclosure Committee meets regularly accounting officers including key Finance to assist and inform the decisions of the Global Compliance provides direct staff in major overseas subsidiaries and all CEO concerning inside information and assurance to the Audit Committee on Finance function employees.
Periodically, it reviews our matters concerning compliance issues, the importance of the integrity of the disclosure controls and procedures and its including an analysis of compliance Groups Financial Statements, the reliability own operation as part of work carried out breaches.
Complementing this, IA of the accounting records on which they are to enable management and the Board carries out a range of audits that include based and the robustness of the relevant to assure themselves that appropriate compliance-related audits and reviews controls and processes.
processes are operating for our planned of the assurance activities of other Group disclosures, such as our quarterly results The Code is at the core of our compliance assurance functions.
The results from announcements and scheduled investor programme.
It has been translated into over these activities are reported to the relations events.
40 languages and provides clear direction Audit Committee.
as to how our commitment to honesty Disclosure of information to auditors IA is established by the Audit Committee and integrity is to be realised in consistent The Directors who held office at the date of on behalf of the Board and acts as an actions across all areas of the business.
approval of this Annual Report confirm that, AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 95 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Compliance with the Code is mandatory Branches and countries in which the The financial position of the Group, its and every employee receives annual training Group conducts business cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing on it.
The Code is reviewed periodically and In accordance with the Companies Act facilities are described in the Financial updated to take account of changing legal 2006, we disclose below our subsidiary Review from page 62.
In addition, Note 25 and regulatory obligations.
Our Global companies that have representative or to the Financial Statements from page 177 Policies supplement the Code and provide scientific branches offices outside the UK includes the Groups objectives, policies and clear guidance in key risk areas.
processes for managing capital: financial AstraZeneca UK Limited: Algeria scientific risk management objectives: details of its The Code contains information on how office, Angola, Belarus, Bulgaria, Chile, financial instruments and hedging activities: to report possible violations through our Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Dubai branch and its exposures to credit, market and Helpline, which includes the AZethics office, Georgia, Ghana scientific office, liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups telephone lines, the AZethics website, and Jordan, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Romania, cash balances and borrowings are included the Global Compliance e-mail and postal Russia, Saudi Arabia scientific office, in Notes 16 and 17 to the Financial addresses described in the Code.
Anyone Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia branch Statements from page 163. who raises a potential breach in good faith is office, Syria and Ukraine fully supported by management.
We take all AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific office The Group has considerable financial alleged compliance breaches and concerns and Slovakia branch office resources available.
As at 31 December extremely seriously, and investigate them and AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: 2015 the Group has $8.3 billion in financial report the outcome of such investigations to Vietnam.
resources cash balances of $6.2 billion and the Audit Committee, as appropriate.
undrawn committed bank facilities of $3.0 Distributions to shareholders dividends billion which are available until April 2020, In 2015, 326 reports of alleged compliance for 2015 with only $0.9 billion of debt due within one breaches or other ethical concerns were Details of our distribution policy are set out year.
Although no liability was recognised made through the Helpline, including reports in the Financial Review on page 178 and at 31 December 2015, the Group has entered made by any anonymous route that could Notes 22 and 23 to the Financial Statements into an agreement to invest in a majority be considered whistleblowing: in 2014 there on page 172. equity stake in Acerta Pharma for an upfront were 247 reports.
The majority of cases payment of $2.5 billion that was paid on come to our attention through management The Companys dividend for 2015 of $2.80 2 February 2016 and a further unconditional and self-reporting, which can be seen as 188.5 pence, SEK 23.97 per Ordinary payment of $1.5 billion to be paid either on an indication that employees are more Share amount to, in aggregate, a total receipt of the first regulatory approval for comfortable in raising their concerns dividend payment to shareholders of acalabrutinib for any indication in the US, or with line managers, local HR, Legal or $3,539 million.
An employee share trust, the end of 2018, depending on which is first.
Compliance, as recommended in the Code AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited, waived The Groups revenues are largely derived and reinforced in the 2015 Code training.
its right to a dividend on the Ordinary from sales of products which are covered by Shares that it holds and instead received patents which provide a relatively high level of Other matters a nominal dividend.
resilience and predictability to cash inflows, Corporate governance statement under although our revenue is expected to continue the UK Disclosure and Transparency A shareholders resolution was passed at to be significantly impacted by the expiry of Rules DTR the 2015 AGM authorising the Company to patents over the medium term.
In addition, The disclosures that fulfil the requirements purchase its own shares.
The Company government price interventions in response of a corporate governance statement under did not repurchase any of its own shares in to budgetary constraints are expected to the DTR can be found in this section and in 2015.
On 31 December 2015, the Company continue to adversely affect revenues in other parts of this Annual Report as listed did not hold any shares in treasury.
many of our mature markets.
However, we below, each of which is incorporated into Going concern accounting basis anticipate new revenue streams from both this section by reference Information on the business environment in recently launched medicines and products major shareholdings which AstraZeneca operates, including the in development, and the Group has a wide Articles.
factors underpinning the industrys future diversity of customers and suppliers across growth prospects, is included in the different geographic areas.
Consequently, Shareholder Information from page 240 and Strategic Report.
Details of the product the Directors believe that, overall, the Group Corporate Information on page 245 portfolio of the Group are contained in both is well placed to manage its business the Strategic Report in the Therapy Area risks successfully.
Subsidiaries and principal activities Review from page 24 and the Directors The Company is the holding company for After making enquiries, the Directors have Report.
Information on patent expiry dates a group of subsidiaries whose principal a reasonable expectation that the Company for key marketed products is included activities are described in this Annual and the Group have adequate resources in Patent Expiries from page 210.
The Groups principal subsidiaries to continue in operational existence for approach to product development and and their locations are given in Group the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they our development pipeline are also covered Subsidiaries and Holdings in the Financial continue to adopt the going concern basis in detail with additional information by Statements on page 194. in preparing the Annual Report and therapy area in the Strategic Report.
96 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance Changes in share capital Groups US legal entities made contributions out in Note 29 to the Financial Statements Changes in the Companys Ordinary amounting in aggregate to $1,224,550 on page 192.
The external auditor is not Share capital during 2015, including details 2014: $1,650,200 to national political engaged by us to carry out any non-audit of the allotment of new shares under the organisations, state-level political party work in respect of which it might, in the Companys share plans, are given in Note committees and to campaign committees future, be required to express an audit 22 to the Financial Statements on page 172. of various state candidates.
As explained more fully in the Audit donations were made at the federal level Committee Report from page 98, the Audit Directors shareholdings and all contributions were made only where Committee has established pre-approval The Articles require each Director to be the allowed by US federal and state law.
We policies and procedures for audit and beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares in the publicly disclose details of our corporate US non-audit work permitted to be carried out Company with an aggregate nominal value political contributions, which can be found by the external auditor and has carefully of $125 which currently represents at least on our website, www.
com monitored the objectivity and independence 500 shares because each Ordinary Share responsibility transparency.
The annual of the external auditor throughout 2015. has a nominal value of $0.25.
Such holding corporate contributions budget is reviewed must be obtained within two months of On 23 December 2015, we and approved by the Deputy General the date of the Directors appointment.
announced a proposal to appoint Counsel, North America, the US ViceAt 31 December 2015, all of the Directors  LLP PwC President, Corporate Affairs and the complied with this requirement and full as our external auditor for the financial President of our US business to ensure details of each Directors interests in shares year ending 31 December 2017.
The robust governance and oversight.
US of the Company are set out in Directors proposed change of auditor follows a citizens or individuals holding valid green interests in shares on page 114 and 115. recommendation by the Audit Committee cards exercised decision making over the Information about the shareholding to the Board based on a formal tender in contributions and the funds were not expectations of the Remuneration line with best practice.
More information provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal Committee in respect of Executive about the tender process is set out in the entity.
Such contributions do not constitute Directors and SET members and the Audit Committee Report from page 98. political donations or political expenditure for Board in respect of Non-Executive A resolution to approve the appointment the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 Directors is also set out in Directors of PwC will be put to shareholders at the and were made without any involvement of interests in shares on pages 114 and 115.
Companys AGM in 2017. persons or entities outside the US.
Political donations Directors Report Significant agreements Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries The Directors Report, which has been There are no significant agreements to made any EU political donations or incurred prepared in accordance with the which the Company is a party that take any EU political expenditure in 2015 and they requirements of the Companies Act 2006, effect, alter or terminate on a change of do not intend to do so in the future in respect comprises the following sections control of the Company following a takeover of which shareholder authority is required, or bid.
There are no persons with whom we Business Review: Research and for which disclosure in this Annual Report is have contractual or other arrangements, Development required, under the Companies Act 2006. who are deemed by the Directors to be Resources Review: Employees However, to enable the Company and its essential to our business.
Corporate Governance: Including the subsidiaries to continue to support interest Audit Committee Report and Corporate groups or lobbying organisations concerned Use of financial instruments Governance Report with the review of government policy or law The Notes to the Financial Statements, Directors Responsibility Statement reform without inadvertently breaching the including Note 25 from page 177, Development Pipeline Companies Act 2006, which defines political include further information on our use Sustainability: supplementary information donations and other political expenditure in of financial instruments.
Shareholder Information broad terms, a resolution will be put to Annual General Meeting Corporate Information shareholders at the 2016 AGM, similar to The Companys AGM will be held on that passed at the 2015 AGM, to authorise and has been signed on behalf of the Board.
The meeting place will be in the Company and its subsidiaries to London, UK.
A Notice of AGM will be sent The Board considers this Annual Report, make donations to political parties or to all registered holders of Ordinary Shares taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced independent election candidates and, where requested, to the beneficial and understandable, and provides the make donations to political organisations holders of shares.
necessary information for shareholders other than political parties to assess AstraZenecas position and External auditor incur political expenditure, up to an performance, business model and strategy.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM aggregate limit of $250,000.
on 29 April 2016 for the reappointment of A C N Kemp KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company.
Corporate political contributions in the US Company Secretary The external auditor has undertaken various are permitted in defined circumstances 4 February 2016 non-audit work for us during 2015.
More under the First Amendment of the US information about this work and the audit Constitution and are subject to both federal and non-audit fees that we have paid are set and state laws and regulations.
In 2015, the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 97
