Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report The quality of AstraZenecas financial reporting is underpinned by well-designed internal controls, appropriate accounting practices and policies, and good judgement.
Dear shareholder completed, and in December, on the recommendation of the Committee, the Board announced its decision to In this Report, we describe the work of the Audit recommend the appointment of Committee during the year and the significant issues  LLP PwC to shareholders at the Companys 2017 AGM.
In 2015, our priorities were to receive assurance on sound financial reporting, effective risk The Committee were advised that the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board management and compliance with the AstraZeneca PCAOB and the Financial Reporting Code of Conduct.
Council FRC had both undertaken a review of certain aspects of KPMG LLPs audit of AstraZeneca PLCs financial statements for The principal duties of the Audit Committee approving the accounting policies applied.
We the Committee are to provide assurance During 2015, the Committee has looked have discussed the review and its findings to the Board, as part of the Boards at the changes to AstraZenecas with KPMG and are satisfied with the stewardship and protection of our revenue accounting policy to include responses to be implemented by KPMG.
shareholders interests, ensuring Externalisation Revenue in its Statement The PCAOB Report is not yet available.
For more the integrity of our financial reporting, information on Externalisation Revenue, Risk management internal controls of financial matters and please refer to the Financial Review from During the year the Committee reviewed financial disclosures page 62.
This change in accounting policy the Companys approach to risk the effectiveness of our internal controls increases the transparency of the income management, its risk reporting framework, over non-financial matters, and generated by the Companys externalisation and the focus of the Group Risk Team.
compliance with laws and the activities and reflects changes over the past These discussions also provided the context AstraZeneca Code of Conduct two years to the Companys strategy and for the Committees consideration of the the quality of the Companys relationship business model to realise the full value of development of the form and content of with its external auditor and the assets and technology and provide for the Directors viability statement and the effectiveness of the external audit optimal investment in R&D.
analysis that underpins the assurance the role, resources and effectiveness of provided by that statement.
Further the Companys internal audit function We also looked closely at intangible asset information on the Companys Principal the effectiveness of the Companys risk impairment reviews: restructuring, legal Risks and the Directors viability statement management framework.
provisions and other related charges, are on pages 21 to 23. to ensure that items are appropriately Financial reporting accounted for in Reported and Core Compliance with the Code of Conduct The quality of AstraZenecas financial results.
We also scrutinised revenue Compliance with our Code of Conduct reporting is underpinned by well-designed recognition together with the associated in Emerging Markets continued to be an internal controls, appropriate accounting selling and marketing investments.
area of focus for the Committee, which practices and policies, and good considered reports on matters in China, judgement.
The Committee reviews, at During 2015 the Committee oversaw Russia, the Middle East and Africa, and least quarterly, the Companys significant a competitive tender of the Companys India for example.
In October, members accounting matters and, where appropriate, external audit services.
A thorough selection of the Committee visited the Companys challenges managements decisions before process in line with best practice was commercial and IT operations in Bangalore and Chennai respectively.
We talked to 98 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance Audit Committee membership In addition, the Chairman of the Audit and attendance Committee held regular scheduled calls The Audit Committee members are Rudy between Audit Committee meetings with Markham Committee Chairman, Bruce each of the CFO: the Chief Compliance Burlington, Ann Cairns, Jean-Philippe Officer: the Vice-President, IA: and the lead Courtois and Shriti Vadera all Nonpartner of the external auditor.
The Board considers each member to be independent under the The Audit Committee is currently scheduled UK Corporate Governance Code and under to meet five times in 2016 and will meet at the general guidance and specific criteria such other times as may be required.
of the Listing Standards concerning the composition of audit committees applicable Terms of reference to non-US companies listed on the NYSE.
The terms of reference of the Audit In April 2015, we submitted the required Committee, which are available on our annual written affirmation to the NYSE website, www.
com, include confirming our full compliance with those reviewing and reporting to the Board on: members of local and regional management standards.
For the purposes of the UK including our compliance officers about Corporate Governance Code, the Board Matters relating to the audit plans of the AstraZenecas performance and its remains satisfied that at least one member external auditor and IA as well as approach to diversity, risk management, of the Audit Committee has recent and oversight of the work of the Global business resilience and operating ethically, relevant financial experience.
At its meeting Compliance function.
within the law and in accordance with our in December 2015, the Board determined The effectiveness of our overall framework Code of Conduct.
that Rudy Markham and Ann Cairns are for internal control over financial reporting Audit Committee financial experts for the and for other internal controls and I am pleased to report that in 2015, the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Company had met all of its obligations more information regarding the experience Our overall framework for risk under its five-year Corporate Integrity of the Audit Committee members, see the management.
Agreement in the US, which terminated Board of Directors biographies on pages The appropriateness of our accounting in April 2015.
The Deputy Company Secretary policies and practices.
compliance with the Companys Code of acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
Our annual and quarterly financial Conduct and high ethical standards in all reporting, including the critical estimates countries where we conduct business or Meetings of the Audit Committee are and judgements contained in our have interactions will continue to be a routinely attended by the CFO: the General reporting.
Counsel: the Chief Compliance Officer: Our internal control over financial the Vice-President, IA: the Vice-President reporting.
Engagement with senior leaders Finance, Group Controller: and our external Our Code of Conduct and whistleblower The Committee considers it important to auditor.
The CEO attends on an agendaprocedures.
extend its interactions with members of driven basis.
In line with its normal practice, management below the SET.
In addition the Audit Committee also held a number The Audit Committee is responsible for to the meetings with local and regional of private meetings, without management notifying the Board of any significant management in India, the Committee met present, with the Chief Compliance Officer: concerns of the external auditor or the informally with members of Internal Audit the General Counsel: the Vice-President, Vice-President, IA arising from their audit Services IA, Compliance, IS IT and Finance IA: and the Companys external auditor.
work: any matters that may materially teams.
In July 2015, the Chairman of the These meetings were held between Audit affect or impair the independence of the Committee participated in a conference Committee members and those individuals, external auditor: any significant deficiencies with the Finance team on the subject of separately from the main sessions of the or material weaknesses in the design Finance as Leaders.
We take a special Audit Committee.
or operation of our internal control over interest in the strength and depth of the financial reporting or other internal controls: finance organisation and talent development Number of meetings and attendance any serious issues of non-compliance: and within that function.
The Audit Committee held five scheduled how the Audit Committee has discharged meetings in 2015.
The attendance record its responsibilities.
It oversees the We value dialogue with our shareholders of the Audit Committee members is set out establishment, implementation and and welcome your feedback on this report.
in the Board and Board Committee meeting maintenance of our Code of Conduct and attendance in 2015 table on page 92. other related policies.
It monitors the Yours sincerely Following each Audit Committee meeting, Companys response to letters requesting the Committee Chairman reported to the information and investigations initiated by Board on the principal matters covered at regulatory and governmental authorities the meeting and minutes of the meetings such as the SEC, the DOJ and the FRC were circulated to all Board members.
pertaining to matters within the remit of the Rudy Markham Chairman of the Audit Committee AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 99 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committees work.
It has established Risk management review and update work or any other facts or circumstances.
procedures for the receipt and handling of the Companys risk management Further information about the audit and of complaints concerning accounting or approach, its risk reporting framework non-audit fees for 2015 is disclosed in audit matters.
It recommends to the Board and the focus of the Group Risk Team.
Note 29 to the Financial Statements on the appointment of the external auditor, Compliance with the applicable provisions page 192. subject to the approval of the Companys of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In particular, A review and assessment of the Audit shareholders at a general meeting.
the status of compliance with the Committees performance.
Shareholders authorise the Directors to fix programme of internal controls over the remuneration of the external auditor financial reporting implemented pursuant Matters considered by the Audit Committee at a general meeting.
The Audit Committee to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley in addition to its usual business as reviews and approves the appointment and Act.
The Audit Committee remained described above included: dismissal of the Vice-President, IA.
focused on IT controls in the context of the changes to the Groups IT Receiving regular updates from the Activities of the Audit Committee environment, described below.
More IT team in connection with the in 2015 information about this is set out in the transformation of AstraZenecas IT The Audit Committee has an annual Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 section infrastructure, with particular attention calendar of topics, developed from its terms of the Financial Review on page 81. to cybersecurity, business continuity of reference, with standing items which it Data about reports made by employees and transitioning into new payroll considers in accordance with its schedule via the AZethics helpline, online facilities software.
The Audit Committee also at each quarterly meeting or, in some and other routes regarding potential reviewed the performance of the Chennai cases, annually.
breaches of the Code of Conduct, IT Centre which included a site visit in together with the results of inquiries into October 2015.
During 2015 and in February 2016, the Audit those matters.
Considering the opportunity for Committee considered and discussed the Reports from Global Compliance AstraZeneca in the Indian pharmaceutical following standing items: confirming compliance with and the market which included a site visit to successful completion of the Companys Bangalore in October 2015, noting in The key elements of the Financial obligations under the Corporate Integrity particular local managements focus on Statements, and the estimates and Agreement that had been in place for five driving a strong compliance culture.
judgements contained in our financial years in the US.
Considering and reviewing compliance in disclosures.
Various accounting matters Reports from the Group Treasury China, noting in particular improvements were considered.
These included the function, in particular, concerning the in policy and controls and the importance areas described in the Financial Review Companys liquidity and cash position of training for new employees.
under Critical accounting policies and and the appropriateness of its investment Considering the execution and outcomes estimates with a focus on accounting management policy in the context of the of significant capital expenditure on the issues relevant to revenue recognition, current economic situation.
construction of a plant in Russia.
litigation and taxation matters and: Going concern assessment and adoption Post-investment reviews of a recent major goodwill and intangible asset impairment of the going concern basis in preparing business development transaction, from page 77 and other important this Annual Report and the Financial a capital expenditure project, and the matters such as considering and Statements.
integration of the BMS diabetes business approving a change to revenue Other reports, on a quarterly basis, acquired at the start of 2014. accounting to include Externalisation concerning IA, Global Compliance and Reviewing the preparation of the Revenue in the Companys Statement of Finance, including the internal audit plan Directors proposed viability statement Consolidated Income, and subsequently and progress and plans of Global and the adequacy of the analysis monitoring the application of the same.
supporting the assurance provided by Discussion of these matters was Quarterly reports from the General that statement.
supported by papers prepared by Counsel on the status of certain litigation Reviewing the operation and effectiveness management and the external auditor.
of the Companys third party risk The reports received from the external The amount of audit and non-audit fees of management framework which supports auditor concerning its audit of the the external auditor throughout 2015.
The the management of key risks important Financial Statements of the Group Audit Committee was satisfied throughout to AstraZenecas integrity and reputation and from management, IA, Global the year that the objectivity and such as bribery and corruption, data Compliance and the external auditor on independence of the external auditor privacy, employment principles and the effectiveness of our system of internal were not in any way impaired by the product security.
controls and, in particular, our internal nature of the non-audit work undertaken control over financial reporting.
The Audit by the external auditor during the year, the Committee also reviewed quarterly level of non-audit fees charged for such activity reports of audit work carried out by IA and the status of follow-up actions with management, as well as reports from Global Compliance.
100 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance The FRCs review of certain aspects of assets and, in respect of those intangible considered the key tax developments at KPMG LLPs audit of AstraZeneca PLCs assets that are identified as at risk of OECD and in key jurisdictions, including financial statements for the year ended impairment, the difference between the proposed requirements for country-by- 31 December 2014.
The Audit Committee carrying value and managements current country reporting.
The Audit Committee discussed the review and its findings estimate of discounted future cash flows for was informed that the Company was on with KPMG.
The Audit Committee was at risk products the headroom.
Products track to meet such additional requirements.
satisfied with the responses to be will be identified as at risk because the implemented by KPMG.
headroom is small or, for example, in the Post-retirement benefits Considering the external quality case of a medicine in development, a Pension accounting continues to be assessment review of IA conducted by significant development milestone such as a significant area of focus.
The Audit Ernst & Young LLP during 2015. the publication of clinical trial results which Committee considered the investment could significantly alter managements performance and financing of significant In the course of carrying out its work, the forecasts for the product.
Audit Committee has taken the opportunity to meet individual or groups of managers In 2015, there were no significant Internal controls to discuss and gain a deeper insight into impairments of intangible assets.
At each quarterly meeting, the Audit relevant areas of interest.
Committee receives a report of the matters Litigation and contingent liabilities considered by the Disclosure Committee Significant financial reporting issues Litigation, particularly that relating to the during the quarter.
At the February 2016 considered by the Audit Committee enforcement and defence of IP rights meeting, the CFO presented to the Audit in 2015 protecting medicines, is a significant feature Committee the conclusions of the CEO The Audit Committee determined that the of the pharmaceutical industry.
In addition and the CFO following the evaluation of the significant matters considered during the to IP litigation, the Group is involved in a effectiveness of our disclosure controls year were number of government investigations and and procedures required by Item 15 a of is a defendant in certain product liability Form 20-F at 31 December 2015.
The Audit Committee receives on their evaluation, the CEO and the CFO impairment of intangible assets regular updates from the General Counsel, concluded that, as at that date, we maintain litigation and contingent liabilities and is informed by commentary from the an effective system of disclosure controls tax accounting external auditor, on the status of those and procedures.
post-retirement benefits litigation matters that might result in fines or allocation of Core and non-Core revenues damages against the Company, to assess There was no change in our internal control Externalisation Revenue accounting.
whether provisions should be taken and, over financial reporting that occurred during if so, when and in what amounts.
Of the the period covered by this Annual Report Revenue recognition matters the Audit Committee considered in that has materially affected, or is reasonably The US is our largest single market and 2015 the Pulmicort Respules patent litigation likely to materially affect, our internal control sales accounted for 40.1% of our Product and Nexium anti-trust litigation, both in the over financial reporting.
Revenue recognition, US, were among the most significant.
The particularly in the US, is impacted by Company took a reserve in the Pulmicort Appointing the auditor and safeguards rebates, chargebacks, cash discounts and Respules case after the US Court of on non-audit services returns for more information, please see Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed We noted in our 2012 Annual Report that, the Financial Review from page 62.
The certain claims in the Pulmicort Respules having reviewed the changes to the UK Audit Committee pays particular attention sterility patent were invalid and lifted the Corporate Governance Code with regard to managements estimates of these items, preliminary injunction.
Notwithstanding the to putting the external audit contract out its analysis of any unusual movements Companys success defending the claims to tender at least every 10 years, and and their impact on revenue recognition in the Nexium anti-trust case, the plaintiffs cognisant of the fact that the lead audit informed by commentary from the continue to seek opportunities to assert partner at KPMG rotated in 2013, the Audit external auditor.
Further information about the Committee determined that the audit would Companys litigation and contingent liabilities be put out to tender by 2018 in accordance Impairment of intangible assets is set out in Note 27 to the Financial with the transitional guidance issued by the The Group carries significant intangible Statements from page 186.
KPMG was first appointed as sole assets on its Balance Sheet arising from external auditor to Zeneca Group PLC in the acquisition of businesses and IP rights Tax accounting 1993 and to AstraZeneca PLC in 2001 to medicines in development and on the The Audit Committee considered the overall following a competitive tender.
Each quarter the CFO outlines the tax affairs of the Group in 2015, noting that carrying value of the Groups intangible the exposure associated with significant tax The six largest audit firms were invited to contingencies has continued to reduce but participate in the process, three of which remains significant.
The Audit Committee AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 101 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued declined.
We agreed with KPMG that Chairman of the Audit Committee together given they would be prohibited from with one other Audit Committee member in being our auditor post 2020 they would the first instance.
A standing agenda item not participate.
No contractual obligations at Audit Committee meetings covers the restricted the Audit Committees choice operation of the pre-approval procedures of external auditor.
and regular reports are provided to the full Audit Committee.
Having concluded a competitive tender process in December the Audit Committee In 2015, non-audit services provided to recommended to the Board that PwC be the Company by KPMG included tax appointed as the Groups statutory auditor compliance services and audit services in for the 2017 financial year.
A resolution relation to employee benefit funds, within to approve the appointment of PwC will the scope of the pre-approved services be put to shareholders at the Companys set out in the Non-Audit Services Policy.
All such services were presented to the Audit Committee for pre-approval.
The Audit Committee considers that the Company has complied with the Fees paid to the auditor for audit, Competition and Markets Authoritys audit-related and other services are Statutory Audit Services for Large analysed in Note 29 to the Financial Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Statements on page 192.
Fees for non-audit Use of Competitive Tender Processes and services amounted to 30% of the fees paid Audit Committee Responsibilities Order to KPMG for audit, audit-related and other 2014 in respect of its financial year services in 2015. commencing 1 January 2015.
Assessing external audit effectiveness Non-audit services In accordance with its normal practice, The Audit Committee maintains a policy the the Audit Committee considered the Non-Audit Services Policy and procedures performance of KPMG and its compliance for the pre-approval of all audit services and with the independence criteria under the permitted non-audit services undertaken by relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical the external auditor, the principal purpose standards applicable to auditors.
Having of which is to ensure that the independence considered all these factors, the Audit of the external auditor is not impaired.
Committee recommended to the Board that The policies and procedures cover three a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG categories of work: audit services: as the Companys external auditor for the audit-related services: and tax services.
year ending 31 December 2016 be The policies define the type of work that proposed to shareholders at the AGM in falls within each of these categories and the April 2016. non-audit services that the external auditor is prohibited from performing under the Consistent with current market practice, rules of the SEC and other relevant UK KPMGs services to the Company are and US professional and regulatory provided pursuant to terms of engagement, requirements.
The pre-approval procedures which are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
permit certain audit, audit-related and tax Neither these terms of engagement nor any services to be performed by the external other agreement include any contractual auditor during the year, subject to fee limits obligations under which the Board would be agreed with the Audit Committee in prevented from appointing a different audit advance.
The CFO supported by the firm were they to consider this to be in the Vice-President Finance, Group Controller, best interests of the Group.
monitors the status of all services being provided by the external auditor.
The procedures also deal with placing non-audit work out for tender, where appropriate.
Authority to approve work in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is delegated to the 102 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
