Directors report 34 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report Corporate governance I am pleased to introduce the 2015 Corporate Governance statement.
Philip Aiken Chairman 19 May 2015 subsidiaries.
The AVEVA Solutions Introduction Limited Board includes as members The Company is committed to the the Chief Technical Officer and Head principles of Corporate Governance of Engineering & Design Systems and contained in the UK Corporate Governance the Chief Operations Officer and Head Code provided by the Financial Reporting of Enterprise Solutions as well as all Council and for which the Board is the members of the Group Board.
The ensures that the AVEVA Group Board is Company has complied with the provisions well informed on technical and market of the UK Corporate Governance Code factors driving the Groups performance throughout the year and to the date of as well as on financial outcomes.
Further explanation of how The Board met seven times during the the principles have been applied is set out year.
These meetings, together with below and, in connection with Directors any Committee meetings, are generally remuneration, in the Remuneration held at the Groups Head Office in Committee report on pages 45 to 59.
Cambridge or in our London office and are approximately one day in duration.
Composition of the Board Each Board meeting has an overDuring the year the Board comprised the arching theme.
These include annual Chairman, three Non-Executive Directors technology review, business plan including the Senior Independent strategy day, succession planning, Director and two Executive Directors annual budget, presentations from being the Chief Executive and the Chief Engineering & Design Systems and Financial Officer.
Enterprise Solutions and interim and final results.
Brief biographical details of all Board The Board aims that Directors visit an members are set out on pages 40 and 41.
AVEVA office outside the UK at least The membership of all Board Committees once per year and in September 2014 is set out on page 39. the entire Board travelled to India and visited the AVEVA offices in Mumbai Operation of the Board and Hyderabad.
The September Board The Chairman, along with the Executive meeting was held in Hyderabad.
Directors and Company Secretary, ensures In addition, the Board holds a full-day that the Board functions effectively strategy meeting every year at which and has established Board processes Executive Directors and members of designed to maximise its performance the senior management team make and effectiveness.
Key aspects of these presentations covering progress processes are: against current strategy and objectives and ideas for future investment.
The AVEVA Group Board meets The Board delegates the day-to-day regularly in combination with the responsibility for managing the Group Board of AVEVA Solutions Limited, the to the Executive Directors.
main operating company in the Group which owns the entire Groups trading 35 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Directors report Corporate governance continued To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors The Chairman ensures that the Directors take independent receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers professional advice where they judge it necessary to discharge are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors their responsibilities as Directors at the Groups expense.
usually four working days in advance of Board and All members of the Board have access to the advice of the Committee meetings.
A monthly reporting pack containing management accounts Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors are with commentary and reports from each Executive is encouraged annually to undertake training in furtherance of distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
their specific roles and general duties as a director.
Meetings were held between the Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors during the year, without the Executives being present, to discuss appropriate matters as necessary.
Group structure 2015 The Board Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Philip Aiken Chairman Richard Longdon Jonathan Brooks James Kidd Philip Dayer Jennifer Allerton Executive management team Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Richard Longdon James Kidd Chief Technology Executive Vice Chief Operations Executive Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice officer and President officer and Head of President President Business President Head of Engineering Human Resources Enterprise Solutions Global Sales Strategy Regional Operations & Design Systems and Business Services 36 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independence of Non-Executive Directors and segregation Internal control and risk management ofduties The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of The Board has considered the independence of the Chairman internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
However, and the Non-Executive Directors and believes that all are such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the currently independent of management and free from any risk of failure and by its very nature can only provide reasonable material business or other relationships that could materially and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces are set out Their biographies on pages 40 and 41 demonstrate a range on pages 22 and 23. of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, and standards of conduct which is vital to the Group.
evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are distinct internal controls, which have been in place from the start of the and the division of responsibility between these roles has year to the date of approval of this report, and believes that it been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by is in accordance with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness Directors on the Combined Code.
of the Board and ensuring that it meets its obligations and responsibilities.
The Chief Executive is responsible to the The key elements of the system of internal controls Board for the day-to-day management of the business, currently include: leadership of the executive team and execution of the Groups strategic and operating plans.
The Chairman and Chief each member of the Executive Board has responsibility for Executive meet regularly to discuss any issues pertaining to specific aspects of the Groups operations.
They meet on a the Companys performance, reputation and organisation.
regular basis and are responsible for the operational strategy, reviewing operating results, identification and mitigation Matters reserved for the Board of risks and communication and application of the Groups The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper policies and procedures.
Where appropriate, matters are management of the Group.
There is a formal schedule of reported to the Board: matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision that regular reports to the Board from the Executive Board on key covers key areas of the Groups affairs, which include: developments, financial performance and operational issues in the business: overall responsibility for the strategy of the Group: operational and financial controls and procedures which corporate governance: include authorisation limits for expenditure, sales contracts review of trading performance and forecasts: and capital expenditure, signing authorities, IT application risk management: controls, organisation structure, Group policies, segregation Board membership: of duties and reviews by management: communications with shareholders: an annual budget process which is reviewed, monitored and approval of major transactions, including mergers and approved by the Board: acquisitions: and regular meetings between the Executive Board, sales area approval of the financial statements and annual operating and managers and line of business managers to discuss actual capital expenditure budgets.
performance against forecast, budget and prior years.
The operating results are reported on a monthly basis to Board meetings the Board and compared to the budget and the latest forecast as appropriate: Meetings held 7 targeted internal audit reviews and extended external audits Meetings attended: which focus on confirming the operation of controls in key Philip Aiken 7 process areas: and Jonathan Brooks 7 maintenance of insurance cover to insure all major risk areas Philip Dayer 7 of the Group based on the scale of the risk and availability of Jennifer Allerton 7 the cover in the external market.
Richard Longdon 7 The Boards monitoring covers all material controls, including James Kidd 7 financial, non-financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board periodically carries out visits to the Groups subsidiaries and receives presentations on their operations.
37 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Directors report Corporate governance continued The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive purpose of this annual report.
This involved reviewing the Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered Groups risk matrix that had been reviewed updated during office during normal business hours and will be available for a risk assessment workshop involving the Executive Board inspection on the day of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control necessary for the Company to Dialogue with institutional shareholders successfully carry out the key business strategies of the Group Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the together with more generic inherent risks of the Groups Board.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head operations.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in of Investor Relations have meetings with representatives of discharging its review responsibilities.
institutional shareholders and hold analyst briefings at least twice a year, following the announcement of the interim and full year Performance evaluation results, but also at other times during the year as necessary.
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its Senior managers from Product Development, Business Strategy performance and that of its Committees and Directors each and Finance also attended analyst and shareholder meetings financial year.
In the prior year, an extensive review was externally during the year.
In September 2014, the Company held a capital facilitated by Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP, the independent markets day in London, where analysts and shareholders board performance consultants.
The most recent review was were updated on the activities of the Group including its Sales carried out in March 2015, was led by the Chairman and was operations and latest technological developments.
All of these conducted following one-on-one interviews with each Director.
meetings seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives with major shareholders by discussing long-term strategy and Overall, the review concluded that the Board and its committees obtaining feedback.
The Board also receives formal feedback had demonstrated a high degree of effectiveness.
There from analysts and institutional shareholders through the were some recommendations on how to further improve the Companys financial PR adviser and financial advisers.
The development of strategy and monitoring of risks which the Board is appraised of discussions with major shareholders to Board is addressing.
ensure that Executive and Non-Executive Directors consider any matter raised by shareholders and to enable all Directors to Indemnities to Directors understand shareholder views.
In addition, when necessary, the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Group consults with shareholders in respect of proposals for the Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to the remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result Non-Executive Director, Philip Dayer, is available to shareholders of the performance of their duties in their capacity as Directors if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels to the Company.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to to the extent the Director is proven to have acted fraudulently or resolve or if such contact would be inappropriate.
The Company has maintained Directors and officers Senior Independent and Non-Executive Directors are available for liability insurance cover throughout the year.
dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend together with the other members of the Board the Annual General Meeting, Policy on appointment and reappointment but are not routinely involved in investor relations or shareholder In accordance with the Articles of Association, all Directors communications.
Corporate information is also available on the are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election Companys website, www.
at least every three years by rotation and also following their appointment.
In addition, as in the prior year and in accordance Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting with the UK Corporate Governance code, all of the Board The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to members are offering themselves for re-election at the Annual communicate with investors and all shareholders are encouraged General Meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and the Nominations Committees will be available at the Annual General On appointment, all Directors are asked to confirm that they Meeting to answer any questions.
have sufficient time to devote to the role, which is confirmed together with details of their duties in the letter of appointment.
Share capital structure All Directors undergo an induction as soon as practical following Further information on the share capital structure of the Company their appointment.
As part of the induction process, Directors is contained on pages 60 and 61. are provided with background information on the Group and attend the Groups headquarters in Cambridge for meetings Committees of the Board and presentations from senior management.
In addition, where The Board has three Committees: Audit, Remuneration and appropriate, meetings are also arranged with the Groups advisers.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the duties of the Committees are set out in formal terms Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years.
They are available on request from the Companys The Chairman of the Nominations Committee and the remainder registered office during normal business hours and are available of the Board considered the independence of Philip Dayer and on the Companys website at www.
Jonathan Brooks now that both are in their third term of office.
It was concluded that both remained independent and continued to contribute to the operation of the Board.
38 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
