STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Jonathan Brooks Philip Dayer Jennifer Allerton Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jonathan Brooks is a Fellow of the Philip Dayer qualified as a Chartered Jennifer Allerton has more than thirtyChartered Institute of Management Accountant and pursued a corporate eight years of Information Technology Accountants and has some 20 years finance career in investment banking, experience, most recently as Chief experience in the technology sector.
specialising in advising UK-listed Information Officer at F. Hoffmann-La Between 1995 and 2002, he was Chief companies.
He was first appointed an Roche in Switzerland with responsibility for Financial Officer and a Director of ARM Advisory Director in 1983 of Barclays IT strategy and operations for the Pharma Holdings Plc where he was a key member Merchant Bank Limited and since then has division and all Group IT operations from of the team that developed ARM to be held the position of Corporate Finance June 2002 to July 2012.
Prior to Roche, a leader in its sector.
Since 2002, he has Director with a number of banks.
He she served as Technology Director at been a director of a number of technology retired from Hoare Govett Limited in Barclaycard with responsibility for Fraud companies in both the software and 2004.
Philip is a Non-Executive Director of Operations and IT.
He is currently a NonKazmunaigas Exploration Production JSC, serves as an Independent Director on Executive Director, Chair of the Audit The Parkmead Group plc, VTB Capital plc the Board of Iron Mountain and as a Committee and Interim Chair of the and PAO Severstal.
Non-Executive Director of Oxford Remuneration Committee of IP Group plc, Instruments and Sandvik.
She holds which commercialises intellectual property Bachelor degrees in Mathematics from from leading universities, as well as a NonImperial College, London, and a Masters Executive Director and Chair of the Audit degree in Physics from the University Committee of FDM Group Holdings plc, of Manitoba, Canada.
an IT professional services provider.
Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure 8 Years appointed 12 July 2007 7 Years appointed 7 January 2008 2 Years appointed 9 July 2013 Board tenure Board composition 0-3 years Chairman 33% 3-6 years Executive Directors 17% 7 years Non-Executive Directors 50% 41 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Directors report Audit Committee report The Board places a very high priority on the integrity of the Groups financial statements, the quality andtransparency of its financial reporting and the effectiveness ofAVEVAs risk management andinternal control systems.
Jonathan Brooks Audit Committee Chairman 19 May 2015 The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and Information flows to the Audit Committee governance of these critical areas.
The Audit Committee meets at least four times per annum.
The Company Chairman and CFO are invited to attend all meetings.
Audit Committee terms of reference The external auditor and the Groups Head of Finance are also The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial invited to attend.
Members of senior management are invited statements of the Group and the Committee members as part from time to time to make presentations such as the Committees of the full Board review all proposed announcements to be made agenda necessitates.
In September 2014, the Audit Committee by the Group and consideration is given to any significant financial met at the Groups offices in Mumbai, and so were able to meet reporting judgements contained in them.
members of the finance team there.
The Committee considers the effectiveness of financial The Committee meets quarterly with the auditor without any reporting and internal controls, compliance with legal members of the executive management team being present.
requirements, accounting standards and the Listing, Disclosure Ialso meet with the external auditor two or three times each and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority yearaway from the Companys offices.
and also reviews any proposed change in accounting policies and any recommendations from the Groups auditor regarding improvements to internal controls and the adequacy of resources within the Groups finance function.
The Committee also assesses the process that has been established to ensure that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, reporting to the Board their findings.
A full copy of the Committees Terms of Reference, is available from the Companys website at www.
Committee membership The Committee is formed of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
As Chairman of the Committee, I am deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
I am a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and I have held a number of senior financial positions in my career, the most relevant of which being the Chief Financial Officer of ARM Holdings Plc between 1995 and 2002.
ARM is a major global technology company as well as having a similar software licensing business model to AVEVA.
Philip Dayer and Jennifer Allerton make up the other two members of the Audit Committee.
Brief biographical details for all the members of the Committee are included on page 41.
42 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overview of the years activities The Audit Committee undertook several additional projects during the year in addition to its prescribed duties.
Responsibility Activity in the year Revenue recognition The Committee received regular updates from management as to its consideration of implications of the new accounting standard for revenue recognition IFRS 15.
Following the extensive review of the Groups revenue recognition policies in 2014, a significant exercise was conducted during 2014 15 on the subject of post contractual support PCS.
Where not specifically indicated in a contract, a proportion of any licence fee is allocated to cover PCS.
The exercise comprised analysing the actual percentage figure of PCS in contracts where similar PCS was separately identified and invoiced to refresh the basis of the accounting estimate used.
External audit The Committee spent considerable time discussing the merits of tendering the audit in the summer of 2015, when the current audit partner is required to rotate off, or waiting until 2020.
Risks and internal The Committee received, reviewed and discussed the findings of the extended external audit procedures controls conducted in France and Japan March and May 2015 respectively.
Some minor opportunities for improvement, particularly in credit control, were identified.
Following the loss of a major contract within the Enterprise Solutions Division earlier in the year, the Committee commissioned an internal review of what lessons should be learned for future enterprise-wide implementation projects.
In May 2015, the Committee received a report covering managements annual cyber security review.
In March 2015, management presented a Group taxation update and assessment of current risks for the Group.
During the latter half of 2014, the Committees attention was drawn to internal control issues in South East Asia, specifically with respect to the timing of revenue recognition and the payment of commissions to sales people.
Following a thorough internal investigation, a special Audit Committee was held in December 2014 to review how practices could be improved.
While the issue was not material to the Group and was contained, control improvements were identified, including better security over the use of digital signatures, better credit control processes and more rigour in getting contracts signed and sealed.
Annually the Committee undertakes a treasury review which was completed in March 2015.
This year this also included a detailed review of risk and mitigations by an external party in the area of foreign exchange management.
Valuation of assets The difficult trading conditions faced by the Enterprise Solutions business led to several reviews of whether and liabilities its goodwill and intangible assets of 9.9 million required impairment.
A third party valuation was undertaken towards the end of the year to assess the recoverable value of these assets.
The Committee gave oversight of the acquisition of 8over8, reviewing and approving its completion balance sheet in March 2015.
The Committee discussed and challenged the accounting assumptions underlying the valuation of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme and any potential consequences of the closure of the scheme to future accrual which, following a process of member consultation, was finalised in March 2015.
Financial reporting Review and approval of financial reporting, particularly the 6 month interim report, full year preliminary announcement and 2015 Annual Report.
Consideration of segmental disclosures for 2015 16 and beyond, following the planned reorganisation.
Risk and internal controls The Committee plans to consider any enhancement to its current The key elements of the Groups internal control framework processes that are encouraged by the FRCs guidance on risk and procedures are set out on page 37.
The principal risks the management and viability as part of its 2015 16 programme.
Group faces are set out on pages 22 and 23.
Annually, the Audit Committee considers the Group risk register and related There is a formal whistle-blowing policy which has been management controls.
Throughout the process, the Board or the communicated to employees.
This policy provides information Audit Committee: on the process to follow in the event that any employee feels it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
The Audit Committee is satisfied Gives consideration to whether areas should be looked at more that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees to make closely through specific control reviews: representations in confidence to the Group and for appropriate Identifies areas where enhancement of internal controls is and proportionate investigations.
required: and Agrees action plans to deliver the necessary or recommended enhancements.
43 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
