Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 59 Audit and Risk Committee Summary of activities in 2015 Graham Roberts In 2015, the Committees work programme focused on a number Chairman of significant issues and other accounting judgements where of the Audit the Committee believed the highest level of judgement was and Risk required and with the highest potential impact on the Groups Committee financial statements.
Further information is set out on page 60.
The Committees standing agenda items comprised reports on: accounting, financial and regulatory issues review of non-audit work carried out by the external auditors, andtheir fees risk management activities and compliance The Audit and Risk Committee plays a key role in overseeing implementation of and progress against the Group the Groups financial reporting and risk management assurance plan.
We are committed to ensuring that the Groups The Committee is able to question management at both Group and financial reporting is accurate, high-quality and clear, to allow divisional levels to gain any further insight into the issues addressed shareholders to properly understand the Groups performance in these reports.
As reported more fully on page 61, the Committee led the process Main responsibilities of retendering the external audit, resulting in the recommendation to approve KPMGs appointment for the year ended 31 December The terms of reference for the Committee are based on 2016.
It also oversaw the recruitment of the Group Risk and the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Audit director and the subsequent reorganisation of the activities Reporting Council.
The main responsibilities of the Audit and reporting to him.
Risk Committee are summarised below: Risk management and assurance review the integrity of the financial statements of the Group The Committee oversaw the development of more robust and any formal announcements relating to the Groups processes to embed operational risk in core reporting processes.
financial performance This work is ongoing with the intention of developing a unified review the Groups internal controls established to identify, and common approach to risk management and assurance across assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from the Group.
management on the effectiveness of the systems it has established and the conclusions of any testing carried out Fair, balanced and understandable by the internal audit function and external auditor Following the introduction of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, the Board has function including its work programme been mindful of the continuing need to provide a balanced and make recommendations to the Board in relation to comprehensive analysis of the Companys development and the appointment of the external auditor and approve performance during the year and the position at the year end.
the remuneration and terms of engagement of the The Audit and Risk Committee has assisted in achieving this external auditor objective by reviewing proposals for the internal procedures to beapplied in preparing the Annual Report.
assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor and develop and implement policy on Viability statement the engagement of the external auditor to supply nonFollowing the revision to the UK Corporate Governance Code audit services published in September 2014, the Audit and Risk Committee has review the integrity of the statement in the Annual Report assisted in reviewing the viability of the Group over the longer term on being fair, balanced and understandable, as required aspart of its assessment of the Groups risks.
under the Companies Act 2006 See page 50 for further details review the procedures for the Groups helplines and other mechanisms used by employees to raise concerns Areas of focus in 2016 confidentially including any whistleblowing facilities and their effectiveness.
In 2016, the Committee will continue to address the topics on its Graham Roberts, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered standing agenda as well as continuing to undertake reviews of the Accountants, a former partner at Andersen and former risk management and assurance practices across the Group on finance director of The British Land Company, has been arolling programme.
The Committee will also continue to receive identified by the Board as having recent and relevant any necessary training in order to broaden and refresh the skills financial experience.
Partners from the external auditor, the Group Risk and Audit director, the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer regularly attend meetings.
The Committee also invites divisional leaders and specialists relevant to the Committees agenda.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 60 Audit and Risk Committee continued Significant issues and other accounting judgements Revenue and margin recognition Given the nature of the Groups operations, these elements are central to how it values its work.
Having reviewed detailed reports and met with management, the Committee considered contract and commercial issues with exposure to both revenue and margin recognition risks.
As a key area of audit focus, the Committee also received a detailed written report from the external auditor setting out the results of its work in relation to keycontract judgements.
Carrying value of goodwill and The judgement largely relates to the assumptions underlying the value in use of the otherintangibles cash-generating units, primarily the achievement of the three-year strategic plan and the macroeconomic assumptions such as discount rates underpinning the valuation process.
The Committee received reports from management outlining the impairment model and the assumptions used: in addition, the external auditor provided detailed written reports in this area.
Accounting for acquisitions The Committee judges whether a business should be treated as held for sale and classified anddisposals as a discontinued operation.
In doing so, it reviews managements position and Group strategy and evaluates the likelihood that the business will be disposed of within a 12-month period and if it constitutes a separate major line of business.
Going concern and viability statement In order to satisfy itself that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and that there are no material uncertainties that could lead to significant doubt as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, the Committee considered the Groups viability statement, cash position both existing and projected, bank facilities and covenants including bonding lines and the borrowing powers allowed under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement and the viability statement for inclusion in the Annual Report.
More details on going concern and the viability statement arecontained on pages 21 and 50.
Non-underlying items The key judgement is whether items relate to underlying trading or not and whether they have been presented in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The Committee conducted a review of each of the non-underlying items, receiving written reports from management and the external auditor as to their quantum and nature.
Provisions The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to provisions, including litigation and other risks.
The Committee received detailed reports, including relevant legal advice.
Retirement benefits The key judgement relates to the assumptions underlying the valuation of the retirement benefit obligations.
The Committee received reports from management outlining the assumptions used, including input from the Groups actuaries, in particular in relation to discount rates, inflation and mortality which were evaluated against external benchmarks and, in relation to which, the external auditor also provided reports.
Deferred tax assets The Committee reviewed the Groups considerations on future profitability to evaluate the judgement that it is probable the deferred tax assets are recoverable.
Directors valuation of the The Committee assessed the methodology used to value the assets in terms of the discount Investmentsportfolio rates applied.
It also critically appraised the output of the Directors valuation exercise.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 61 Risk management and internal control Annual assessment of the audit process The risk management and internal control framework was reviewed In addition to receiving written reports from the auditors both and strengthened in February 2015 and now comprises a number internal and external and management, the Committee also of approval and review gates that cover the business lifecycle conducted separate private meetings with the external auditors from initial project pursuit through to delivery and completion.
These provide the opportunity for open These processes are underpinned by common minimum standards dialogue and feedback on the audit process, the responsiveness in project and commercial management and are under constant of management and the effectiveness of individual internal and review to ensure their effectiveness and compliance.
A detailed assessment of the external audit process and the Internal auditor effectiveness effectiveness of the external auditor, together with any identified The Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal audit on improvement recommendations, is prepared each year.
This is achieved, in part, by reviewing and Each division and operating company within the Group is required discussing the reports presented to it at each meeting, setting to evaluate the performance of the assigned external audit team out the departments work and findings, but also through a formal and to compare that performance against the previous year.
An independent periodic review of internal This assessment has taken into account the issues which have audit, as well as a thorough self-assessment scorecard drawn up been raised during 2015. inaccordance with best practice guidelines, also helps contribute tothe Committees evaluation.
The external auditors annual transparency report for the year ended 31 May 2015 was reviewed.
This was prepared in accordance with External auditor independence and effectiveness the provisions of the Statutory Auditors Transparency Instrument The Committee carries out a formal review each year to assess 2008 made by the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, Reporting Council.
The Committee has satisfied itself as to Deloittes independence.
In reaching its conclusion, the Committee took into External auditor rotation consideration the following matters: As indicated last year, in light of the requirements of the UKCorporate Governance Code and other recent changes to the Non-audit work EU regulatory framework, the Committee undertook a competitive The objective set out in the Companys policy is to ensure that the tender for the external audit, Deloitte having been the Companys external auditor is not placed in a position where its independence auditor since August 2002.
This process involved: is, or might be seen to be, compromised.
Under no circumstances will any assignment be given to the external auditor, when the presentations to the Committee by four firms, including Deloitte, result is that: addressing key business risks and their proposed audit approach individual meetings of the tendering firms with all of the divisional as part of the statutory audit, it is required to report directly on management teams, executive management and members of non-audit work the Committee it makes management decisions on behalf of the Group the presentation of formal tender submissions it acts as advocate for the Group a final presentation to a selection committee chaired by the the level of non-audit fees is such, relative to audit fees, as to chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and comprising raise concerns about its ability to form objective judgements.
executive and non-executive Directors of the Group.
The Companys policy identifies the various types of non-audit The result of the comprehensive tender process was that on the services and determines the analysis to be undertaken and level of recommendation of the committee, the Board selected KPMG authority required before the external auditor can be considered to as auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016.
shareholder approval will be sought to confirm the appointment There is no inconsistency between the Financial Reporting of KPMG as auditor of the Company at the AGM to be held on Councils ethical standards and the Companys policy.
In 2015, the external auditor was appointed to carry out various non-audit related work, including corporate finance services for reasons of commercial confidentiality and efficiency as well as tax advisory services in Germany and the UK.
The Committee considers that the Company receives particular benefits, including those relating to cost, quality and consistency, from the advice provided by its external auditor, given its wide and detailed knowledge of the Group and its international operations.
There can also be savings in management time and accelerated delivery of work in situations where rapid turnaround is required.
The majority of non-audit related work provided by all the major international accounting firms 85% by value was carried out by firms other than Deloitte.
The disclosures provided above constitute the Companys statement of compliance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
