Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 80 Report of the Nominations Committee Committee membership and attendance Number of meetings attended Number of meetings possible in the year to Member 31 March 2015 Mike Turner Chairman 3 of 3 Ian Duncan 3 of 3 Sir David Omand 3 of 3 1 Justin Crookenden 1 of 1 2 Kate Swann 2 of 3 Anna Stewart 3 of 3 Jeff Randall 3 of 3 3 Myles Lee N A During the year, the Committee 1.
Justin Crookenden retired from the Board on 30 November 2014.
Kate Swann was unavailable for one meeting due to a pre-existing has dealt, I believe successfully, personal commitment.
with changes in both the executive 3.
Myles Lee joined the Board on 1 April 2015. and non-executive membership In addition to its formal meetings, members of the Committee also met together informally to discuss of the Board and continued to senior executive succession planning.
focus on senior executive Matters within the Committees remit are also sometimes taken as specific items at full Board meetings, principally succession planning.
consideration of succession planning more widely within the Mike Turner CBE Group and talent identification, management and development.
Chairman Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee is responsible for making recommendations Membership of the Committee to the Board, within its agreed terms of reference, The Nominations Committees Terms of Reference stipulate on appointments to the Board.
The terms of reference of that it is to be chaired by the Chairman of the Board and its the Committee are available on the Companys website.
other members are to be Non-Executive Directors of whom The Committee is also to assist the Board in discharging the majority are to be independent Directors.
During the year its responsibilities in respect of: under review, and currently, all the members of the Committee, Regularly reviewing and evaluating the size, structure other than the Chairman, were independent Non-Executive and composition including the balance of skills, diversity, Directors.
Executive Directors are sometimes invited to attend knowledge and experience of the Board and making meetings of the Committee, if appropriate.
The current recommendations to the Board with regards to any changes membership of the Committee, and its membership during Considering succession planning for Directors and other the year to 31 March 2015 as well as attendance at Committee senior executives, taking into account the challenges and meetings during the year, is shown below.
Unless otherwise opportunities facing the Company and the skills and expertise stated, the member was a member throughout the year.
needed on the Board in the future The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Reviewing the leadership needs of the Group, both Executive and Non-Executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace Identifying and making recommendations for the approval of the Board regarding candidates to fill Board vacancies: and reviewing the time required from Non-Executive Directors for the performance of their duties to the Company Governance 81 When considering recommendations on the appointment to the Board the Committee has in mind the strategic plans and the development of the business in both existing and new market sectors and with new, and new types of, customers, both in the UK and internationally, and the need to maintain the Boards credibility in its chosen business areas.
The Committee also takes into account as part of its deliberations the Boards aspiration and intent to foster and encourage greater diversity, including gender diversity, of outlook, background, perception and experience at Board level.
In making recommendations on future appointments to the Board due consideration is given to issues of diversity when compiling a shortlist of suitable candidates.
Activities undertaken by the Committee during the year During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee: Considered and recommended changes to the executive membership of the Board and consequent senior management moves following completion of the acquisition of Avincis, which included the appointment to the Board of Franco Martinelli formerly Group Financial Controller as Group Finance Director in place of Bill Tame, and Bill Tames appointment as Divisional Chief Executive, International Division and Chief Executive Babcock Mission Critical Services formerly Avincis Oversaw and participated in the process for finding and recommending the appointment of a new independent Non-Executive Director, Myles Lee effective 1 April 2015 Continued to review plans for executive succession at Board and senior management level Considered and recommended the extension of the terms of appointment as Non-Executive Directors of Sir David Omand and Anna Stewart.
In my report last year, I noted that one of the recommendations made in last years Board evaluation process was to enhance the formality around the Board appointment process.
We have done so and in appointing the new independent Non-Executive Director, Myles Lee, we followed a lengthy, formal and competitive process using independent board recruitment specialists, The Inzito Partnership which has no other connections or relationships with the Group.
The full Board was consulted on the ideal candidate profile bearing in mind the Companys strategic plans and the need to have a diverse range of skills, outlook and experience around the board table to take those plans forward.
There was common agreement that international experience, particularly of growing companies internationally, both organically and by acquisition, in non-English speaking countries had to feature high on the list of desired attributes.
The process for selecting the final candidates to be put forward to the Board for consideration involved interviews with the Chairman, the Company Secretary, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director.
Mike Turner CBE Committee Chairman 18 May 2015
