Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 52 Board of Directors Philip Aiken AM 67 Leo Quinn 58 Philip Harrison 55 Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer from 26 March 2015 from 1 January 2015 from 1 June 2015 Joined the Board as non-executive Appointed as Group Chief Executive in Appointed as Chief Financial Officer in Chairman in March 2015.
He is nonJanuary 2015, after five years as group June 2015.
He was previously group executive chairman of Aveva Group plc chief executive of QinetiQ Group plc finance director at Hogg Robinson and a non-executive director of Newcrest and before that five years as CEO of fide Group plc, and before that he was Mining Limited.
He was a non-executive La Rue plc.
Prior to these senior roles, group finance director at VT Group director of National Grid plc, chairman of he spent almost four years as COO of plc.
Prior to that, he served as VP Robert Walters plc and a non-executive Invensys plcs production management Finance at Hewlett-Packard Europe, and senior independent director of business, headquartered in the US, Middle East and Africa region and Kazakhmys plc and Essar Energy plc, and 16 years with Honeywell Inc in was a member of the EMEA board.
and a senior adviser at Macquarie Bank senior management roles across the His earlier career included senior Ltd.
Prior to that, he was group president UK, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, international finance roles at Compaq, Energy BHP Billiton and president BHP including global president of H&BC Rank Xerox and Texas Instruments.
He is Petroleum, chief executive of BTR Nylex, Enterprise Solutions.
He was formerly a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of and held senior roles in BOC Group.
a non-executive director of Betfair Management Accountants.
Group plc and Tomkins plc.
He is a civil 2 3 4 engineer, and began his career at Balfour 5 6 Beatty.
He is the founder of The 5% Club which encourages industry to increase graduate training and apprenticeships.
3 3 5 6 Board Committees code: Other Directors who held office 1 Audit and Risk duringthe year were: From 14 January 2016, as part of an agreed review of Robert Amen 2 Safety and Sustainability Committee memberships: Non-executive Director until 31December 2015 Iain Ferguson rejoined the Audit and 3 Nomination Risk Committee Duncan Magrath 4 Remuneration Chief Financial Officer until 8 May 2015 Leo Quinn joined the Safety and Sustainability Committee Steve Marshall 5 Group Tender and Investment Chairman until 26 March 2015 Maureen Kempston Darkes left the Nomination Committee 6 Finance and General Purposes Peter Zinkin Planning and Development Director Stuart Doughty left the Chair until26 March 2015 Remuneration Committee Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 53 Iain Ferguson CBE 60 Maureen Kempston Darkes 67 Graham Roberts 57 Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed a Director in 2010.
She joined Appointed a Director in 2009.
He is chief he was chief executive of Tate & Lyle.
General Motors Corporation in 1975 and executive of Assura plc, a UK primary Prior to joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, he held a number of progressively senior healthcare property company and spent 26 years at Unilever in a succession roles during her time with the business, was formerly finance director of of roles culminating in his appointment culminating in her appointment as group The British Land Company between as senior vice-president, corporate vice-president for General Motors 2002 and 2011.
Prior to that, he spent development.
He is non-executive Latin America, Africa and Middle East eight years at Andersen, latterly as a chairman of Berendsen plc and Stobart operations.
She retired from General partner specialising in the real estate Group Limited.
He is also chairman Motors in 2009.
She has a portfolio of and government services sectors.
of Wilton Park, an independent and non-executive directorships including He is a Fellow of the Institute of non-profit making Executive Agency of Brookfield Asset Management, Chartered Accountants.
the British Foreign and Commonwealth Canadian National Railways, 1 3 4 Office and lead independent director at Enbridge Inc, Irving Oil Company and the Department for Environment, Food Schlumberger.
She is a member of and Rural Affairs.
He was formerly a nonthe Canadian Governments Science, executive director of Sygen International Technology and Innovation Council.
2 3 4 2 3 3 4 Dr Stephen Billingham 57 Stuart Doughty CMG 72 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director from 1 June 2015 from 8 April 2015 Appointed a Director in June 2015.
He He is chairman of Anglian Water Group has over 45 years experience in the civil Ltd, chairman of Punch Taverns plc engineering, construction and infrastructure and chairman of Urenco Ltd.
He has sectors, and was chief executive of Costain over three decades of business and Group PLC between 2001 and 2005. management experience, including This followed executive positions in Welsh 11years with the Company under its multi-utility Hyder plc, Alfred McAlpine former name, BICC plc.
He was group plc and Tarmac Construction, where he finance director CFO of British Energy represented the company on the Channel Group plc and of WS Atkins plc.
Tunnel board, following 20 years with John Laing Construction.
He has also served as a senior non-executive director of Scott 1 Wilson Group plc, and as chairman of Silverdell Plc, Somero Plc and Beck and Pollitzer Limited.
1 2 3 4 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
