Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 58 Governance summary This section of the report details the arrangements the Board has put inplace to help ensure that it fulls the obligations it has for the good How the Company has governance of the Company.
The detail can be found in the following appliedthe principles of the pages, but I would like to highlight briey two important matters: diversity and our approach to board evaluation.
UKCorporate Governance Im pleased to report that we have exceeded the target set by the Code 2014 the Code Board back in 2011, when it committed to an aspirational target of atleast 25% of its membership being women by 2015 the gure The Company was compliant with the iscurrently 30%.
The Company and I have always been supportive provisions of the Code throughout 2015 ofthe Women on Boards initiative led by Lord Davies, which has been andthe Board has applied its principles in successful in promoting greater diversity across UK listed company itsgovernance structure and operations.
Diversity, in all its aspects, is an important element in the composition of any board and we will ensure that it continues to be an important part of our succession planning activity.
In pursuit of achieving the highest standards of governance, during thecourse of the year, the Board completed a formal and structured internal review of process and practice to determine areas for improvement.
The review concluded that sound progress had been made in deepening the Boards understanding of the business and strengthening engagement in assessing both performance and strategic direction.
Areas for improvement included the need to develop a better understanding of competitors, a more granular awareness of our offset policy and greater visibility of high-potential members of the management team.
The dynamic and effectiveness ofthe Board were assessed to be good, and the contribution and enthusiasm of Board members was judged to be strong.
This year, the annual board evaluation is being undertaken by an external facilitator.
The following report details how the Board has applied the principles The Code inthe UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and complied with its provisions.
However, I and all Board members are very much aware of the need to ensure that our governance structure, and all that we do asa company, is underpinned by the right business culture.
As I have emphasised elsewhere in these reports, from the Board downwards, itis not just what we do, but how we do it.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 59 T he Listing Rules require companies to apply the Main Principles andreportto shareholders on how they have done so.
The principles arethecoreof the Code and the way in which they are applied shouldbethecentral question for a board...
The UK Corporate Governance Code Leadership An effective board collectively responsible for the long-term success Board of directors P60 ofthecompany.
Board effectiveness P62 A clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between The Board and its responsibilities P62 therunning of the board and the executive.
No one individual should have unfetteredpowers of decision.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its The Board and its responsibilities P62 effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Non-executive directors should constructively challenge and help develop How we manage risk P52 proposals on strategy.
The Board and its responsibilities P62 Effectiveness The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, Nominations Committee report P70 experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them Board of directors P60 todischarge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Nominations Committee report P70 appointment of new directors to the board.
Governance summary P58 All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to Board attendance table P62 discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Board effectiveness P62 All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly Board effectiveness P62 update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form Board effectiveness P62 and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its Board effectiveness P62 ownperformance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Governance summary P58 All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject The Board and its responsibilities P62 tocontinued satisfactory performance.
Board effectiveness P62 Accountability The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Strategic report P i the companys position and prospects.
Risk management, viability assessment and going concern P64 The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal How we manage risk P52 risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for Audit Committee report P65 considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
Remuneration Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the long-term Remuneration Committee report P71 success of the company.
Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on Remuneration Committee report P71 executive remuneration and for xing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Relations with shareholders There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding Shareholder engagement P64 of objectives.
The board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors and to Shareholder engagement P64 encouragetheir participation.
