Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 82 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Number of meetings attended Number of meetings possible in the year to Member 31 March 2015 Ian Duncan Chairman 4 of 4 Sir David Omand 4 of 4 1 Justin Crookenden 3 of 3 Kate Swann 4 of 4 Anna Stewart 4 of 4 Jeff Randall 4 of 4 2 Myles Lee N A 1.
Justin Crookenden retired from the Board on 30 November 2014.
Myles Lee joined the Board on 1 April 2015.
The Committee continued its The Board is satisfied that Ian Duncan, who has been Chairman of the Committee since July 2011, has recent and relevant focus on ensuring the integrity of financial experience and that the Committee complies with the Companys financial reporting, Code provision C3.1.
He is currently Chairman of the Audit Committees of WANdisco risk assessment and management plc, Mouchel Group and Bodycote plc and until 15 November 2013 was Chairman of the Audit Committee of Fiberweb PLC.
processes and Group controls, with Until June 2010 he was Finance Director of Royal Mail Holdings particular regard to the integration PLC and other former roles have included the position of Corporate Finance Director at British Nuclear Fuels and Chief of the Mission Critical Services Financial Officer and Senior Vice President at Westinghouse formerly, Avincis business.
Electric Company LLC in Pennsylvania, USA.
Ian Duncan Role of the Committee Commitee Chairman The purpose of the Audit and Risk Committee is to assist, advise and make recommendations to the Board in: Ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts, Membership of the Committee is fair, balanced and understandable The Audit and Risk Committee was during the year, and at provides the information necessary for shareholders the date of this report is made up entirely of independent to assess the Companys performance, business model Non-Executive Directors.
Committee membership and and strategy attendance at its meetings in the year are set out below.
Monitoring the integrity and accuracy of the Groups Unless otherwise stated, members were members throughout financial statements, including annual and half-year results the year.
Further details of the backgrounds and qualifications and any formal announcement relating to the Companys of the members of the Committee can be found on pages 70 financial performance to 71.
The Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee Reviewing significant reporting issues, the consistency until November 2014, when the Deputy General Counsel took of accounting policies and disclosures, and any decisions on that role.
requiring a major element of judgement Being satisfied there is an effective system of internal control, compliance procedures and risk management systems Approving the internal and external audit programmes Considering the role and independence of the external auditors Considering the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors Reviewing the Groups processes for detecting and addressing fraud, bribery, misconduct and control weaknesses and considering reports on any such occurrence.
Governance 83 Financial results Who attends Committee meetings?
Full-year and half-year financial statements and related In addition to the members of the Committee, the Committee, results announcements at its discretion, usually invites the Group Chairman, Chief Reports and reviews from the external auditors Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Company Secretary Matters that required the exercise of a significant element and General Counsel and Group Financial Controller to attend of management judgement see page 84 its meetings.
Divisional Chief Executives who are each Advising the Board on the requirement for a statement themselves main Board Directors are also, at the Committees from it that the Annual Report and Accounts for the year to discretion, usually invited to attend meetings.
The Committee 31 March 2014 and for the year to 31 March 2015 is fair, is satisfied that having these invited attendees present does balanced and understandable and provide the information not influence or constrain the Committees discussions or necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys compromise the Committees independence.
Their presence performance, business model and strategy ensures that all Board Directors are directly aware of the in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts for the Committees deliberations, how it goes about the discharge year to 31 March 2014, this requirement was discharged of its responsibilities on behalf of the full Board and any areas by circulating to Board members draft wording at an early of concern or focus for the Committee.
It also assists the stage with sufficient time and detailed content to allow Committee by allowing direct questioning of executives on for an assessment of the content against the reports matters that the Committee thinks need further challenge, and accounts provided to the Board and its discussions clarification, explanation or justification.
Should a situation throughout the year arise where the presence of any such attendee would be for the Annual Report and Accounts for the year to inappropriate or might compromise discussion the Committee 31 March 2015, this requirement was discharged by, would either not invite the attendee concerned or request in addition to early circulation of the draft report as in that they not attend the relevant part of the meeting.
2014, content authors being re-briefed on the fair The Group Risk Manager also attends Committee meetings for balanced and understandable requirement and by a discussion of Group risk reports and related items.
Ernst & formal written report being submitted to the Committee Young LLP provides internal audit services to the Company.
prepared by the Group Financial Controller reviewing the  LLP is the Groups external auditor.
draft, its consistency with his knowledge and understanding Both auditors usually attend the Committees meetings.
of matters and the appropriateness of the weighting given The Committee Chairman also meets  to them, in each case to allow for their review and LLP and Ernst & Young LLP in the absence of executive consideration by the Committee with all Directors present management, and other Committee members have the in the context of their own understanding of reports and opportunity to do so.
The auditors are also invited to address accounts provided to the Board and its discussions the Committee without executives present at least once a year.
throughout the year before drafts are submitted to the Board the content of The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the the Strategic report is reviewed by the Head of Investor year to ensure that they are in line with best practice guidelines.
Relations to ensure consistency with other financial They are available on the Companys website.
statements made by the Group during the year Activities undertaken by the Committee during Changes to the UK Governance Code for financial years the year commencing on or after 1 October 2014.
During the year to 31 March 2015 the Committee met Internal controls four times.
The agenda for each meeting is approved by Review of the Companys system of internal controls and the Committee Chairman in conjunction with the Committee their effectiveness consisting of the reviews and reports Secretary and other members of the Committee as described elsewhere in this section.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee considered: Audit plans Internal and external audit plans for the year or particular audit.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 84 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Internal audit In planning the year-end audit, the Committee considered At each meeting, internal audit reports on findings from with management and the Companys auditors the key areas audit visits to business units, including follow-up reports on of focus for the audit having in mind their significance to the any matters identified in earlier reports as requiring attention Groups reporting of results and the degree of judgement or improvement are considered.
The reports contain tracking involved in their evaluation.
The significant issues considered information to enable the Committee easily to see the control in relation to the financial statements for the year ended performance of business units over time and how quickly any 31 March 2015 and how the Committee addressed them are matters are addressed.
set out in the following table: Significant Issue How the Committee addressed it Risk Fair value accounting Assessments by management of the Review of key risks and internal control processes which are for acquisitions, fair valuation of assets including described further on pages 60 to 69 including Avincis helicopter and fixed-wing fleet, Regular detailed reports identifying areas of risk at business in the case of Avincis, and goodwill, unit, divisional and Group level, assessing and prioritising customer relationships, brand values potential impact, risk mitigation steps in place and the were reviewed by the Committee in preand post-mitigation risk levels the context of, inter alia, cash flow Divisional and Group reviews of the Group risk standard forecasts, budget, growth rates, Reviewing internal audit reports, which as a matter of fleet and brand valuation reports course look at accounting, anti-bribery and corruption by expert third parties and having controls, business continuity, contract performance and assessed sensitivities.
contract bidding risks Focused reviews of selected major risk areas: insurance Contract judgements The Committee considered the strategy: business critical suppliers: Treasury risk.
revenue and profit material contracts that require a recognition significant degree of management Fraud judgement that could materially affect Reports, covering any suspected incidents of fraud, the appropriate accounting treatment their investigation and any remedial or preventive action.
for them: these were the subject of Whistleblowing discussion and challenge with The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Group management to ensure that the whistleblowing policy and receives regular reports of calls Committee was satisfied as to the and emails to the Groups external independent reasonableness of those judgements.
whistleblowing services and how these have been Pensions accounting The Committee assessed the particular investigated and concluded.
For further explanation of the choice of assumptions proposed to be used by the whistleblowing procedure please see page 51. assumptions in the management and their impact on valuation for scheme assets and liabilities in the Audit non-audit fees and auditor independence accounting purposes context of assumptions being used in Audit and non-audit fees for the external and internal auditors of the liabilities of respect of the same factors by other were reviewed by the Committee and considered as to their the Groups defined companies and the pensions industry effect on auditor independence.
See note 26 on pages Significant issues considered by the Committee 167 to 172. in relation to the financial statements Business acquisitions The Committee reviewed and We are required to provide an explanation of the significant goodwill challenged managements assessment issues that the Committee considered in relation to the financial impairment of value in the context of, inter alia, statements for the year to 31 March 2015 and how these issues cash flow forecasts, budget, growth were addressed, having regard to matters communicated to rates, and having assessed sensitivities.
the Committee by the auditors.
Governance 85 Internal controls and risk management Non-audit fees The risk management framework, risk mitigation and control The Committee regularly considers the engagement of and processes and other internal controls are detailed on pages level of fees payable to, the auditors for non-audit work, 60 to 69. considering potential conflicts and the possibility of actual or perceived threats to their independence.
The Companys policy A statement regarding the effectiveness of the internal controls is to consider whether to place material non-audit services work and control processes, including those over financial reporting, with external auditors on a case-by-case basis based on an can be found on page 124. assessment of who is best placed to do the work having regard to the availability, resources, capability, experience and any Internal audit conflicts of interest of potential candidate firms for the work, Ernst & Young LLP has provided an internal audit service to and to make the choice based on what is considered to be in the Group since 2003.
The Committee considers that it is the Companys best interest overall having regard to potential still appropriate to have an internal audit service provided by independence issues if the work is placed with the Companys an external adviser, but keeps this under review.
Non-audit services offered to the auditor would not continues to be satisfied with the service provided by Ernst include the design or operation of financial information systems, & Young LLP acting as internal auditor.
internal audit services, maintenance or preparation of External audit accounting records or financial statements that would be The Committee manages the relationship with the external subject to external audit or work that the Committee considers auditor on behalf of the Board and monitors the auditors as reasonably capable of compromising their independence independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness as auditors.
If use of the auditors for non-audit work would lead of the external audit on an annual basis.
Audit fees are to non-audit fees payable to them in the year exceeding 20% of re-evaluated periodically.
their audit fee, the Committee Chairmans approval is required.
Having considered the non-audit services provided by the  LLP PwC has been the external auditor during the year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee auditor of the Group since 2002 without a re-tender in that is satisfied that these services were provided effectively and did time.
The Committees current intention continues to be to not prejudice the objectivity or independence of the auditor.
embark on a re-tendering process no later than 2017, by when the current audit engagement partner at PwC is due to rotate For the year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee has out of that role having served in it for five years.
Following this approved the payment to PwC of fees of 2.3 million for audit re-tendering process the Group will adopt a policy of putting the services, and of fees of 1.0 million for non-audit related work, external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
including work in connection with the proposal to acquire Defence Support Group, namely, due diligence in connection There are no contractual obligations that would restrict the with that transaction, due in part to the non-availability of other selection of a different auditor or the re-tendering process leading firms as a result of conflicts of interest and in part to taking place earlier than 2017 should the Committee consider, PwCs specialist expertise relevant to the bid.
Non-audit related having regard amongst other things to PwCs continued work accounted for 30% of the total audit and non-audit related effectiveness, that it would be in the Companys interest to fees paid to the external auditor during the year.
of fees paid to the auditor is set out in note 5 on page 148.
PwCs effectiveness in the provision of audit services is regularly Ian Duncan assessed by the Committee and its Chairman in their meetings Committee Chairman with PwC, and after each annual audit there is a rigorous review of PwCs audit services in that audit examining the 18 May 2015 level and consistency of qualification, expertise and resources: the effectiveness of the audit including, inter alia, the understanding of our business and reporting processes for subsidiary audit teams : independence and leadership.
The review includes the provision to PwC and discussion with it of detailed feedback from those exposed to the audit process within the Group.
The question of PwCs continuing independence in the provision of audit services is considered and discussed with PwC including the basis upon which that assessment can reasonably be made and supported.
Being satisfied with PwCs continuing independence and with the effectiveness of its provision of audit services, and PwC having expressed its willingness to be re-appointed as auditors of the Company, the Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC be re-appointed as the Companys auditors for a further year.
The Board has accepted this recommendation and will be proposing a resolution to shareholders at the 2015 AGM for the re-appointment of PwC as auditors.
