Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 70 Nominations Committee report Dear Shareholders, Sir Roger Carr Throughout last year, the Nominations Committee was engaged in developing a Chairman of the Nomination n ns s s deeper engagement with management in Committee understanding the depth of management resources across the Group.
In particular, work was undertaken to provide a more focused approach to identifying and developing those individuals with the potential to take on the most senior roles at Executive Committee and Board level.
As part of this work, it is important Members that all directors have the opportunity to meet Sir Roger Carr Chairman senior executives on a regular basis, and changes have been made to the Boards Elizabeth Corley annual programme to provide more Harriet Green interaction with senior executives, both formally and informally.
Chris Grigg As a result of the work we have undertaken in Paula Rosput Reynolds the last 18 months, I believe our management Nick Rose development and succession plans are more robust and insightful.
However, we will Ian Tyler continue to work with the executive team to rene our approach to talent management Carl Symon was a member of the Committee up to 12 June 2015. and make sure that the high-potential people Governance we employ at all levels throughout the The Nominations Committee was in place throughout 2015 and held five Company have the opportunity to develop meetings during the year.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Whilsthe is not deemed to be independent, the other members of the As part of our succession planning Committee are independent non-executive directors in accordance with programme, I am pleased that we have theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
beenable to announce recently that Charles Summary of responsibilities Woodburn will be joining the Board and Reviewing the balance of skills, experience, diversity including gender, Executive Committee in the newly-created knowledge and independence, and recommending any changes to the roleof Chief Operating officer.
Charles has Boardsmembership that it believes are necessary or desirable as a result outstanding engineering credentials with ofsuch review proven international industrial experience andwill strengthen and broaden the strategic Planning the orderly succession of new directors to the Board by reviewing and operational capabilities of the business.
onaregular basis the Companys senior management resource The Committee engaged the recruitment Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable candidates to consultants Spencer Stuart and MWM llanyvacancies for non-executive or executive directors Consulting to assist with its search activities.
Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the The Committee is also tasked with ensuring Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees that we have independent non-executive directors with the right mix of skills, knowledge Nominating suitable candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director and experience.
In 2015, the members of the Reviewing, and making recommendations to the Board on, the re-appointment Committee identied Elizabeth Corley as an ofnon-executive directors at the conclusion of their specic terms of ofce, excellent candidate for appointment to the having given due regard to their performance and ability to continue to Board based on her high standing within the contribute to the Board financial services industry and, more recently, her non-executive role with the Financial Reporting Council.
Im very pleased that she has joined the Board increasing the number of independent non-executive directors to sixand the women on the Board to 30%.
During 2016, the Nominations Committee willbe looking to make at least one more non-executive appointment.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman of the Nominations Committee BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
