Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 54 Governance report Board balance Board tenure Board geography Board balance Chairman 1 02 years 5 UK 7Male 7 Executive Directors 2 24 years 1 Americas 1Female 1 Non-executive Directors 5 46 years 0 6 years 2 Non-executive Directors significant strengths Operating Financial Risk Ethics, performance Mergers management Experience of Health management values Strategic and and Business and Sectorinternational and and HR Stakeholder and development delivery acquisitions integration planning specific markets safety assurance management engagement culture Philip Aiken Stephen Billingham Stuart Doughty Iain Ferguson Philip Harrison Maureen Kempston Darkes Leo Quinn Graham Roberts Directors independence All of the Directors in office on 14 March 2016 will seek election or At its meeting on 10 March 2016, the Board considered the re-election at the AGM in accordance with the Code.
Brief biographical independence of the non-executive Directors against the criteria details are shown on pages 52 and 53 and a non-exhaustive list of the specified in the Code and determined that each of them continues key strengths of the Directors is set out in the table above.
Details of to be independent.
their service agreements, emoluments and share incentives are shown in the Remuneration report starting on page 68.
The Board and its composition Following the performance evaluations of each of the non-executive The Board comprises eight Directors, of whom six, including Directors, it is confirmed that the performance of each continues theChairman, are non-executive.
The names of the Directors tobe effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
serving throughout the year and at the year end are shown on pages 52 and 53.
As previously reported, Leo Quinn was appointed Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2015.
Steve Marshall stepped down from the role of Chairman on 26 March 2015 to be succeeded by Philip Aiken.
Peter Zinkin ceased to be a Director on 26 March 2015.
Stuart Doughty and Stephen Billingham were appointed non-executive Directors on 8 April 2015 and 1 June 2015 respectively.
Duncan Magrath ceased to be a Director with effect from 8 May 2015.
Philip Harrison was appointed Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 June 2015.
Robert Amen retired as anon-executive Director on 31 December 2015.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 55 Roles Board and Committee meetings Summaries of the roles of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Procedures for Board meetings remain largely unchanged from and the Senior Independent Director are as follows: previous years.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on appropriate governance matters and for ensuring a good information flow and that Board procedures are properly Chairman Philip Aiken followed.
He is available to individual Directors for advice on Ensuring effective strategic planning is undertaken by the Board procedures.
executive Directors Details of the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees Ensuring corporate governance is properly maintained held during the year and attendance of Directors thereat are set Formally appraising the performance of the Group Chief outon page 56.
Outside the formal schedule of meetings, the Executive and reviewing with the Group Chief Executive his non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors views on the performance of the other executive Directors present on a number of occasions.
Meetings were normally held Providing leadership to the Board atthe Companys head office.
Acting as senior ambassador for the Company All non-executive Directors receive papers for every Committee Considering Board balance, composition and succession meeting and where not a member, have an open invitation to attend any Committee meeting.
A number of the Directors took Ensuring the smooth operation of the Board and thisopportunity during the year.
its Committees Providing effective communication between the Board and Board and Committee meetings typically take place over two its shareholders.
consecutive days with the first day allocated to Committee meetings and ending with a Focus presentation by a member of Group Chief Executive Leo Quinn the leadership team.
The agenda for the Board meetings will often include a deep dive presentation from one of the business units as Strategy development and the stewardship of physical, well as focusing on key priorities for the Group, including: financial and human resources progress with the Build to Last programme Group operational and financial performance Executive leadership strategy and budgets operating structures, processes and costs Health, safety and environmental performance Corporate values and ethics the Groups financial performance legacy contract out-turns Objective setting for the senior management team Organisational structure, succession and talent management annual and interim financial statements health and safety performance Major capital expenditure prioritisation and allocation of resources significant human resources issues, including succession Consideration of acquisitions, disposals and financing planning and diversity consideration of issues relating to major disputes, proceedings Stakeholder management.
or other matters of potentially adverse affect on the Senior Independent Director Iain Ferguson Groups reputation.
Acting as chairman of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted Responsibility and delegation Acting as a conduit to the Board for the communication of The Board is responsible for the success of the Company and has a shareholders concerns if other channels are not appropriate formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes Ensuring that the Chairman is provided with effective the matters summarised below: feedback on his performance.
determining the Groups strategic direction approving annual budgets and financial reporting, including the annual and half-year results and interim management statements approving interim, and recommending final, dividends approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve objectives and review management performance setting the Companys values and ethical standards approving policies and systems for risk management and assurance.
The Board reviewed its list of reserved matters, most recently, at its meeting in January 2016.
The full list and the terms of reference of the Board Committees are available on the Companys website: www.
com investors The day-to-day management of the business is delegated to executive Directors and the Groups senior management.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 56 Governance report continued Board and Committee meetings attendance Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board meetings and meetings of the Audit and Risk, Safety and Sustainability formerly Business Practices, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the table below.
Safety and Board Audit and Risk Sustainability Nomination Remuneration Director 11 6 3 4 4 Philip Aiken from 26 March 2015 8 8 3 3 2 2 2 2 Robert Amen 7 11 4 6 2 3 4 4 Stephen Billingham from 1 June 2015 6 6 2 2 Stuart Doughty from 8 April 2015 7 7 3 3 3 3 1 1 Iain Ferguson 10 11 4 4 2 3 4 4 4 4 Philip Harrison from 1 June 2015 6 6 Maureen Kempston Darkes 11 11 3 3 4 4 4 4 Duncan Magrath to 8 May 2015 4 4 Steve Marshall to 26 March 2015 3 3 2 2 2 2 Leo Quinn 11 11 3 4 Graham Roberts 10 11 6 6 3 4 3 4 Peter Zinkin to 26 March 2015 3 3 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year including as a result of changes to Committee memberships.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to compelling business commitments or exceptionally illness.
In each case, where the Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chair, as appropriate.
Iain Ferguson left the Audit and Risk Committee in July 2015 and rejoined it in January 2016.
Further information about the work of each of the Boards Board evaluation Committees may be found on pages 59 to 63 and pages 68 to 84.
Introduction In keeping with the Code, the Board undertakes external Board development evaluations, typically every three years, with internal evaluations in Induction the intervening two years.
The most recent external evaluation was Directors undertake a thorough induction programme and receive carried out in early 2016, and considered the performance of the a range of information about the Company when they join the Board and its Committees, as well as the Chairman and individual Board, including access to a portal on which all Board papers are Directors, during 2015. stored, and which includes Balfour Beattys Code of Conduct 2015 evaluation and processes for dealing in Balfour Beatty shares and Board All Board members were requested to complete an online procedures.
In addition, they take part in a series of one-to-one survey, which was prepared by Lintstock, an external facilitator.
meetings with other members of the Board, senior executives in Lintstock also facilitated Balfour Beattys 2014 evaluation and has the businesses and the Companys external advisers, which include no other connection with the Company.
briefings on the Companys business strategy, financial procedures, business development, legal and other key issues.
The survey was tailored to the specific circumstances of Balfour Beatty and covered the composition, expertise and dynamics of The Directors induction programme also provides the foundation the Board, the Boards management of time, the support afforded for continuing professional development.
This takes place to the Board, the Boards oversight of strategy, risk and human throughout the year by way of a series of internal and external resources, and priorities for change.
The anonymity of responses updates, including visits to operating companies to meet local was guaranteed to ensure open and honest input.
management and visits to Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK and overseas.
Lintstock subsequently delivered a report to the Board, which formed the basis for one-to-one interviews between the Chairman Professional development and each Director, the outcomes of which were discussed by the In discussion with the Directors and Company Secretary, each year Board at the March 2016 meeting.
The Committee reviews were the Chairman determines whether there are any specific training discussed individually at each Committee meeting.
needs identified by the Directors, which can be addressed either by the topic being included at a future Board meeting or on a oneKey conclusions from the evaluation to-one basis.
Directors are also enrolled in the Deloitte Academy, Given that over 60% of the current Board, including the Chairman, a seminar-led programme for directors of UK listed companies, joined during 2015, comparisons to the 2014 review are of limited which provides regular updates throughout the year on the principal value: however, overall ratings across most areas showed an governance and other matters of which directors of a listed improvement year-on-year.
The importance of the new noncompany should be fully aware.
executive Directors continuing to enhance their understanding of the business was seen to be a key priority for the coming year.
Following the review, among other things the Board agreed to spend more time discussing the Companys future strategy, including the implementation of Build to Last: increase its exposure to, and engagement with, management: and continue its focus on overseeing risk management, including Health and Safety.
