Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 72 Governance statement Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Board, I am committed to Babcock seeking to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance.
As a Board, we are fully conscious of the paramount importance of maintaining the Companys reputation, as it is crucial to do so for the longterm success of the Company.
Good governance, ethical business practices and good risk management are key to achieving this.
Babcocks approach is to seek to embed transparency, good governance and sensible risk management into our business culture.
I very much subscribe to the view that having an effective board, made up of members with a suitably diverse range of relevant experience, backgrounds, outlook and approaches, is at the heart of good governance, strategy and the long-term interest of shareholders.
In this respect, I believe, and my Mike Turner CBE fellow directors believe, that the Board operates in an open, Chairman honest and appropriately challenging way.
I believe also that we have built, and will continue to develop, a board that is appropriately balanced and experienced for developing and implementing the Companys near-term and longer-term business strategy and that all its members have a good understanding of its operations.
The evolution and development of the Board continued during the year under review.
Following the completion of the Maintaining acquisition of Avincis now Mission Critical Services the executive presence on the Board was changed and increased, with Bill Tame moving from his role as Group Finance Director high standards to become Chief Executive of Mission Critical Services and the wider International division, and the promotion of Franco Martinelli from Group Financial Controller to Group Finance Director.
I believe these were sound moves that highlighted the strength of our senior management team and the succession planning processes we have in place and will ensure that the culture and deep understanding of Babcock is maintained and brought to the new businesses.
Our 2014 15 Board, Committee and Director evaluation exercise was carried out internally this year, having been externally-led last year.
There were no significant concerns highlighted.
A summary of the review can be found on page 77.
We are addressing and will continue to address the matters identified as areas for focus.
We have developed and broadened the range of experience amongst our non-executive membership by the appointment, effective 1 April 2014, of Jeff Randall and, effective 1 April 2015, of Myles Lee.
Jeff, a former business journalist and TV presenter, brought with him an understanding of public perception and reputation management as well as close-hand observation and analysis of a wide range of major business and political developments and events over the years.
Myles is the former Chief Executive and a former Finance Director of CRH, the FTSE 100 global building materials group, that grew rapidly both organically and by acquisition from its domestic Irish base.
I believe Myless key involvement in and experience of this expansion will be of great value to Babcock as it seeks to develop its international presence.
During the year, as foreseen in my report last year, Justin Crookenden retired from the board after nine years as an independent Non-Executive Director.
I wish to thank Justin once again for his dedicated Governance 73 service to the Board.
Jeff Randall has taken over Justins role Board, the table below shows that, following the retirement as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
of Justin Crookenden and the recent appointments mentioned above, we have a Board of Non-Executives that is clearly being Finally, we are satisfied as a Board that all our Non-Executive refreshed and enjoys the benefit of a range of periods in office.
Directors are independent for Governance Code purposes and Non-Executive Period in office to date have the necessary time to devote to their duties.
We, therefore, Sir David Omand 6 years, 1 month recommend to shareholders that they reappoint each of our Non-Executive Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Ian Duncan 4 years, 6 months Meeting in July.
In this regard, we have, after consideration, Kate Swann 3 years, 11 months extended for a further three-year term, subject to annual Anna Stewart 2 years, 6 months re-election, the current expected terms of appointment of Jeff Randall 1 year, 1 month Sir David Omand and Anna Stewart which were due to expire Myles Lee 1 month at the AGM.
Anna has been a Director since November 2012 and Sir David since April 2009.
We are conscious that, before extending the appointment of any Non-Executive Director in office over six years, they should be subject to a particularly rigorous review of their performance and commitment that should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
This we have done in the case of Sir David, Mike Turner CBE whose performance and commitment was the subject of Chairman discussion during our Board evaluation process and at a separate 18 May 2015 Nominations Committee meeting held to consider the extension of his appointment.
We are satisfied as to both his continuing The Governance statement, along with the reports of the Nominations, Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees form part of the independence and the continuing value of having him serve Directors report on pages 119 to 125. as our Senior Independent Director.
As to the refreshing of the Babcock governance structure Board Group Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Chief Finance Committee Committee Committee Executive Director See p70 & 76 See p70 See p82 See p86 See p80 Diversity Corporate Executive Group Group and Steering Safety Steering Committee Finance Divisional Group Group See p77 Committee Security Boards See p57 & 78 See p61 See p74 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 74 Governance statement continued Governance Code Compliance Statement Board matters and delegation The Company is required to report on how in the year The Board has established a formal schedule of matters under review it has applied the UK Corporate Governance specifically reserved for its approval.
It has delegated other Code published in September 2012 the Code.
The Code specific responsibilities to its Committees and these are sets out the main principles and specific provisions on how clearly defined within their terms of reference.
companies should be directed and controlled in order to follow good governance practice.
Summary of key Board reserved matters Group strategy and resourcing The Board considers that the Company complied with all the Interim and final results announcements and the provisions of the Code throughout the year to 31 March 2015, annual report and financial statements save for the four-month period following the retirement of Justin Dividend policy Crookenden as an Independent Non-Executive Director on Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside 30 November 2014.
In this period, less than half of the Board delegated limits excluding the Chairman were Independent Non-Executive Significant contracts not in the ordinary course of business Directors.
This was remedied on 1 April 2015, when the Major changes to the Groups management or appointment of Myles Lee as an Independent Non-Executive control structure Director, announced on 3 March 2015, became effective.
Changes relating to the Companys capital structure The composition of Board Committees was, however, in full or status as a listed PLC compliance with the Code throughout the year.
Annual budgets We are aware that revisions were made to the Code in 2014 Major capital expenditure which apply in respect of reporting periods commencing on Major changes in governance, accounting, tax or or after 1 October 2014 and will report against the Code as treasury policies so amended for the year ending 31 March 2016.
Internal controls and risk management systems advised by the Audit and Risk Committee A discussion of the Groups position on audit tenders is set Major press releases and shareholder circulars out on page 85 of this report.
For the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR Board Committee terms of reference and other delegated 7.2.
5, a description of the main features of the Groups internal authorities are formalised and reviewed from time to time.
control and risk management systems, including in relation to Key Committee terms of reference are available to view on the financial reporting process, can be found on pages 60 to our website: www.
69 and a statement regarding the effectiveness of the internal In addition to the principal Committees of the Board controls can be found on page 124. the Remuneration Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee Details in connection with the Companys share capital as and the Nominations Committee each of which has its own required by DTR 7.2.
6 can be found on pages 119 to 120. report in the pages that follow the Board from time to time establishes committees to deal with specific matters on its Board of Directors behalf.
The Board also allows for routine matters, or the The Board of Directors of Babcock International Group PLC implementation of formal steps for matters approved in the Board is collectively responsible to the Companys principle by the Board, to be dealt with by a Board meeting of shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
any two Directors, but these are later ratified by the full Board.
This responsibility includes matters of strategy, performance, resources, standards of conduct and accountability.
The Board There is also a Group Finance Committee consisting of any also has ultimate responsibility for corporate governance which two Directors, one of whom must be the Group Finance it discharges either directly or through its Committees and the Director, to approve borrowing, guarantees, treasury and structures described in this Governance report.
related matters within its terms of reference.
The Company has, as described on page 77, an Executive Committee, though this The current Directors biographies are set out on pages 70 and is not a formal Board Committee with its own delegated powers.
The Board is satisfied that each Director has the necessary time to devote to the effective discharge of their responsibilities and that between them the Directors have a blend of skills, experience, knowledge and independence suited to the Companys needs and its continuing development.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles, which may be amended by way of a special resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and other applicable legislation.
The Articles are available for inspection online at www.
com and can also be seen at the Companys registered office.
d r a d o r B a o e B h t e h n t o f e o c Governance 75 Key areas of focus during the year Composition of the Board During the year key areas focused on by the Board included: The composition of the Board during the year, and as it currently stands, is shown below: Strategy and business Risk Independent Succession planning development Executive Non-Executive and talent development Date Chairman Directors Directors The completion of the Consideration of the acquisition of Avincis implications of political now known as Mission 1 April 2014 31 July 2014 1 5 6 developments and outlook Critical Services and 1 August 2014 30 Cyber-security and associated rights issue November 2014 1 6 6 information assurance and financing arrangements 1 December 2014 31 risk management The integration of March 2015 1 6 5 Review of internal controls Mission Critical Services Since 1 April 2015 1 6 6 and risk management into the Group, and advised by the Audit and associated management The Chairman in his letter on page 72 talks further about Risk Committee and Board changes the composition and development of the Board.
Legal updates and Consideration of litigation reports other acquisitions Insurance strategy The Eurobond Issue and 3 refinancing of existing credit facilities Two special Board meetings dedicated to strategy Business unit strategy 1 1.
Executive Directors 6 updates and presentation 2 Financial planning, including 2.
Independent Non-Executive Directors 6 budgets and dividend policy 3.
Chairman 1 Business development opportunities and as at 18 May 2015 pipeline review The proposal and plans to install a new Enterprise Resource Planning 4 ERP system Shareholder relations Governance 1 Annual Report and Accounts Annual Review of 3 and half-year results Board, Committee and Annual General Meeting Director effectiveness 1.
Under 3 years 5 Independent investor Health and safety 2.
3-6 years 4 relations surveys and management reports 3.
6-9 years 2 2 feedback reports and annual and 4.
9 years 2 Monthly investor relations half-yearly reviews as at 18 May 2015 and shareholder Annual anti-bribery and engagement reports corruption and risk During the financial year and up to the date of this report Review of analyst reports management update the following changes were made to the Board.
Review of terms of reference of New Directors Date of Appointment Board Committees Jeff Randall Non-Executive 1 April 2014 Monthly Franco Martinelli Executive 1 August 2014 management reports Myles Lee Non-Executive 1 April 2015 Tax affairs Review of Retired Directors Date of Retirement delegated authorities Justin Crookenden Non-Executive 30 November 2014 Potential conflicts of interest of Directors Consideration of revisions to the Governance Code i n v o r i e t i s s f o o p d m o o i r C e P Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 76 Governance statement continued Election of Directors Role of the Chief Executive The process for the selection and subsequent appointment The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day leadership of new Directors to the Board is described in the Nominations of the business and managing it within the authorities Committee section on pages 80 and 81 of this report.
In particular, his role is to: The rules relating to the appointment and replacement develop strategic proposals and annual plans for of Directors are contained within the Companys Articles recommendation to the Board and ensure that agreed of Association.
The Articles of Association provide that Directors strategies are implemented in the business may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members develop an organisational structure, establishing or by a resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter processes and systems and planning people resourcing to instance, a Director appointed in that way retires and is ensure that the Company has the capabilities and resources submitted for election at the first Annual General Meeting required to achieve its plans AGM following their appointment.
Franco Martinelli and be responsible to the Board for the performance of Myles Lee, who joined the Board on 1 August 2014 and on the business consistent with agreed plans, strategies 1 April 2015 respectively, will be complying with this and policies requirement, and, in compliance with provision B.
7.1 of the demonstrate and communicate to the Groups employees Code, all other existing Directors will be seeking re-election the expectation of the Board with regard to ethical and at the 2015 AGM.
The names and biographical details of cultural values and behaviours, promoting the highest each of the Directors are set out on pages 70 and 71. standards of good governance oversee the application of Group policies and Executive Directors are entitled under their service agreements governance procedures as regards health and safety to 12 months notice of termination of employment from the and environment matters Company: Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, develop and promote effective communication with have letters of appointment which can be terminated at will.
shareholders and other relevant constituencies The Chairman and Chief Executive The Senior Independent Director The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Sir David Omand is currently and has throughout the year Executive are separate, clearly established, set out in writing, been the Senior Independent Director.
Shareholders can bring and have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is matters to his attention if they have concerns which have not responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, as a whole, and the Chief Executive for the management of Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, or if these channels the Group and the successful planning and implementation of are not deemed appropriate.
The Chairman looks to the Senior Board strategy.
The descriptions below summarise their current Independent Director as a sounding board and he is available respective roles and responsibilities.
A copy of the formal written as an intermediary between the other Directors and the statement is also maintained on the Companys website at Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director is also responsible www.
for leading the Non-Executive Directors in the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The specific role Role of the Chairman of the Senior Independent Director has been set out in writing The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and overall and approved by the Board.
In particular, his role is to: with the Chief Executive, demonstrate ethical leadership The Non-Executive Directors and promote the highest standards of integrity and probity The Non-Executive Directors bring external perspectives throughout the business and insight to the deliberations of the Board and its ensure effective operation of the Board and its Committees, providing a range of knowledge and business or Committees in conformity with the highest standards other experience from other sectors and undertakings see their of corporate governance biographies on pages 70 and 71.
They play an important role set the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions in the formulation and progression of the Boards agreed to promote constructive debate and effective decisionstrategy, and review and monitor the performance of the making and ensure that the flow of information to the executive management in the implementation of this strategy.
Board is accurate, timely and clear build an effective and complementary Board, with the Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an expected initial appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge, three-year term though the appointments are terminable at initiating change and planning succession, as well as will by either party at any time, subject to their annual ensuring Director development and leading the evaluation re-election by shareholders at the AGM, commencing with their of the performance of the Board, its Committees and election by shareholders at the first AGM following their individual Directors appointment by the Board.
Re-appointment after the expiry of foster effective working relationships between the their three-year terms is subject to review by the Nominations Executive and Non-Executive Directors and support the Committee.
The Board considers the independence of each Chief Executive in the development of strategy and, more Non-Executive Director against criteria specified in the Code.
broadly, support and advise the Chief Executive The performance of all Directors is evaluated as part of the ensure effective communication with shareholders, Board annual evaluation process described on page 77.
The governments and other relevant constituencies and that terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive the views of these groups are understood by the Board Directors, together with the service contracts for Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours, and at the AGM.
Governance 77 During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, including Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors or other the Chairman, met independently of management on managers present from time to time.
Debate and discussion several occasions.
at Board and Committee meetings is encouraged to be open, challenging and constructive.
Directors regularly receive In his letter on page 73, the Chairman addresses the presentations by functional and senior managers.
In the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and the annual Board and Committee evaluation review, no Directors extension of terms of office.
expressed dissatisfaction with the timing or quality of information provided to them.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible, under direction from Board evaluation the Chairman, for ensuring the appropriate information flows The Boards practice to date has been to commission an to the Board and its Committees to facilitate their discussions external independent review of its effectiveness and that of and allow fully informed decisions to be made.
The Company its Committees and members at least every other year, Secretary also ensures the Non-Executive Directors have with an internally-led review in the alternate years.
access to senior management where required, as well as ensuring an appropriate induction process and ongoing Review for year ending 31 March 2015 training is in place for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The evaluation for the financial year ending 31 March 2015 The Company Secretary advises the Board and its Committees was carried out internally by the Group Company Secretary.
This involved confidential, structured one-on-one interviews with each Director.
The review considered the balance of skills, The Group Executive Committee experience, independence and knowledge of the Board, its The Group Executive Committee is not a formal Board diversity, how the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and Committee and has no delegated powers as such.
It is made individual Directors performed and how they worked together up of the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, and other factors relevant to board effectiveness.
Directors Divisional Chief Executives, the Company Secretary and were invited to comment specifically on succession planning, General Counsel and the Group Director of Organisation and strategy, risks and risk management and any areas of concern Development.
It is scheduled to meet ten times a year and they might have.
The output from these interviews was put reviews and discusses all matters of material significance to together, on a non-attributable basis, in a report for the the Groups management, operational and financial Chairman who then used the report as the basis for his own performance as well as strategic development.
Minutes of round of one-on-one interviews with each Director.
The its meetings are circulated to Board members.
Chairman then conveyed his conclusions as to the results of the process, and the Company Secretary submitted a written Board meetings report to the Board.
No significant concerns had been expressed Attendance at scheduled Board by Board or Committee members as to the way in which the Name meetings in the year to 31 March 2015 Board or Board Committees functioned, the support given to Chairman them, the matters covered at their meetings or how they were Mike Turner 12 of 12 dealt with, or as to the contribution of any individual Director.
Executive Directors As to areas that were commonly felt to require the most Peter Rogers 12 of 12 continued attention and focus, these were: 1 Franco Martinelli 7 of 7 Executive succession plans and their implementation Planning to ensure that the Group has the necessary Kevin Thomas 12 of 12 talent and skills being recruited and developed for its Archie Bethel 12 of 12 long-term needs John Davies 12 of 12 Awareness of potential strategic risks Bill Tame 12 of 12 The need to ensure the success of the Avincis Non-Executive Directors Mission Critical Services acquisition.
Sir David Omand 12 of 12 The Board will report back to shareholders on progress in 2 Justin Crookenden 8 of 8 the 2016 Annual Report.
Ian Duncan 12 of 12 Follow up on the review for year ending 31 March 2014 3 Kate Swann 11 of 12 As reported last year, the Board evaluation for the year Anna Stewart 12 of 12 ending 31 March 2014 was led externally, by Independent Jeff Randall 12 of 12 Board Evaluation.
Key areas of focus to come out of that 4 review and how they were addressed in the year to Myles Lee N A 31 March 2015 included: 1.
Franco Martinelli joined the Board on 1 August 2014.
Senior management team succession and transition planning: 2.
Justin Crookenden retired from the Board on 30 November 2014. making it more visible, ensuring its robustness, and taking into account long-term strategy 3.
Kate Swann was unavailable for one meeting due to a pre-existing This continued to be the subject of discussion at Board personal commitment.
and Nominations Committee meetings and in meetings 4.
Myles Lee joined the Board on 1 April 2015. between the Chairman and the Non-Executives.
The Board has at least ten scheduled full Board meetings Continuing to find time for consideration of both medium each financial year and two other meetings devoted solely and longer-term strategy to strategy.
The Chairman also meets separately with Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 78 Governance statement continued Strategy is the subject of standalone Board meetings continued to actively consider how to make management twice a year.
roles more attractive and amenable to females so as to Planning for more international experience and diversity increase the numbers of women in management.
A review at Board level of flexible working practices in other companies is being International experience was a key criterion for the undertaken to consider what is likely to have the most recruitment process for a new Non-Executive Director, positive impact which resulted in the appointment of Myles Lee.
for the second year, sponsored the WISE Women in Science Talent management and bench strength below Board and Engineering Hero Award level should continue to be a key area of focus A breakdown of gender diversity throughout the Company This was the subject of formal presentations at both the is given in the illustration below: Board and the Executive Committee following detailed divisional reviews.
We have also recruited a specialist Gender diversity Talent Development Manager.
Further information on activity in this area can be found on page 56.
Improving consistency and the level of formality in the Board appointment process Board In the recruitment of a new Non-Executive during the year, the process followed was as described in the report of the 15% 2 85% 11 Nominations Committee on pages 80 and 81.
Female Male Having more regular Chairman and Non-Executive Director only meetings Senior Executive The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met on at 18.2% 106 81.8% 475 least two occasions in the absence of Executives and Male Female the Chairman had one-on-one meetings with each of the Non-Executive directors as part of the Board Total Workforce evaluation process.
17.3% 6,088 82.7% 29,101 Diversity Female Male Babcock recognises that succession planning, recruitment, promotion and training need to take into account the benefits Information and training for Directors of diversity, including gender diversity.
The Board is clear that New Non-Executive Directors receive detailed business briefings it wants to see an increasing number of women in senior on the Groups operations and make induction visits to executive management roles and throughout the workforce operational sites.
Those who have not previously served as as a whole, to be achieved consistently with Babcocks best for a director of a listed company receive a briefing from the the job philosophy.
Companys external lawyers on their duties and responsibilities.
We believe, however, that diversity should not be about As required by the Chairman, training for new Directors and firm quotas or solely a gender debate and that instead, ongoing general Director training is arranged as necessary or we should look at a wide-ranging approach.
as they may request, and the Company Secretary briefs Board members about significant changes in the law, regulations In considering the issues around gender diversity we can report or governance codes affecting their duties as Directors.
that Babcock has: two female Directors diversity continues to be given Non-Executive Directors may at any time make visits to Group due consideration when compiling a shortlist of suitable businesses or operational sites and Board visits are also made board candidates to sites.
Presentations on the Groups businesses and specialist a Diversity Awareness Campaign across the whole Group functions are made to the Board from time to time.
led by the Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors receive copies of minutes of meetings a Diversity Steering Group which meets once a quarter of the Group Executive Committee and Divisional Boards and an annual conference for women in management roles to monthly divisional operating reports which also cover health, identify the measures that we need to take to encourage safety and environmental matters and compliance with the the progression of women into senior roles in the business: Groups ethical and security standards.
They are also invited this is linked to our Respect agenda and we will be issuing to attend the Groups senior management conferences.
guidance to every employee on how to ensure we maintain an inclusive and barrier-free environment to encourage Share capital and rights attaching to the opportunities for all Companys shares run diversity workshops within business units to review Details concerning the Companys share capital and rights progress, agree actions and implement plans to maintain attaching to the Companys shares are set out on pages momentum on our Diversity programme 122 to 124. focused our graduate recruitment programme, particularly of engineering graduates, on those universities that have a richer Relations with shareholders undergraduate gender mix so as to improve the diversity of The Board believes it is important to maintain open and the pool of talent from which we recruit our engineers and constructive relationships with all of its shareholders large managers of the future female graduates now make up 22% and small, institutional and private.
The Chief Executive, Group of the annual intake an increase of 2% on last year Governance 79 Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations undertake Over 75% of all Babcock shares are held by institutional a programme of meetings, conference calls and presentations shareholders.
Whilst it is normal practice for institutional to discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance with funds to have a greater degree of contact with the Company, investors, brokers sales teams and analysts.
The Company offers all shareholders are welcome to raise questions with the meetings with the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Board at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, on to its top 20 shareholders at least twice a year and, additionally, a day-to-day basis our investor relations team engages with during the year the Chairman wrote to our largest shareholders shareholders on a wide range of issues.
To assist our private inviting them to meet with him to discuss strategy, performance and international shareholders, the investor relations team and corporate governance matters, resulting in meetings with makes sure that all price-sensitive information is released in three shareholders.
The new Chairman of the Remuneration accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory Committee wrote to our top five shareholders, on his requirements.
All announcements and major presentations appointment, offering to meet them to discuss their views on given to institutional shareholders, along with annual reports, remuneration in general and on our specific remuneration shareholder circulars, shareholder services information, other policy.
Both the Chairman and Sir David Omand, the Senior stock exchange releases and share price information, are Independent Director, are available to shareholders should they made available to all shareholders through the Babcock have any concerns where contact through the normal channels website www.
is deemed inappropriate or where they believe a matter has The Company ensures that the Board has an up-to-date not been adequately resolved.
perspective on the views and opinions of shareholders and the investment market.
An investor relations report summarising How we communicate share price performance compared to market, changes to Results and trading updates the shareholder register and feedback from shareholders is available as audiocasts at produced for each Board meeting.
Once again, the Company www.
com investors When also commissioned Clare Williams Associates to undertake Full-year and half-year results: announcement May and a Market Perception Review to provide an independent and presentation November 2014 evaluation of investor attitudes towards the Group which Interim management statements and July 2014 and this year involved 13 investors, including some of the conference call with Group Finance Director February 2015 Companys major shareholders, accounting for around 33% Other presentations When of the shareholder register, as well as some underweight or By Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, August and non-holding institutions.
The results were formally presented Divisional Chief Executives at broker September to the Board in July 2014. organised conferences and events 2014, January, Annual General Meeting February and The 2015 AGM will be held at 11am on Thursday, 30 July 2015 March 2015 at the Grosvenor House Hotel, Park Lane, London, W1K 7TN.
By Chief Executive Support Services September 2014 The Company will send notice of the AGM and any related Division and Cavendish Nuclear Senior papers at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting Management team in accordance with best practice standards.
By Chief Executive International Division and Senior Management team of Mission All shareholders are welcome.
The event provides a platform Critical Services business March 2015 for the Chairman and Chief Executive to explain how the Dealings with shareholders, investors and analysts Company has progressed during the year.
It also provides all Resolutions of AGM available at shareholders with the opportunity to put questions to the www.
com investors When Chairman of the Board, the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Meetings with shareholders and Throughout Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and the Senior potential investors Independent Director.
At these meetings a poll is conducted Meetings with sell side analysts and Throughout on each resolution: shareholders also have the opportunity to brokers sales teams cast their votes by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Directors also make themselves available before and after the Extraordinary General Meeting April 2014 AGM to talk informally to shareholders.
Following each AGM Avincis acquisition the results of the poll are published on the Companys website Letter from the Group Chairman to July 2014 and released to the London Stock Exchange.
our shareholders Annual General Meeting July 2014 Letter from the Chairman of the August 2014 Remuneration Committee to our top five shareholders Roadshow in London and Edinburgh May and November 2014
