Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 62 Corporate governance report The Board and its responsibilities Mediclinic International plc.
During 2015, Board effectiveness heretired as a non-executive director The Board has adopted a governance This section considers the effectiveness of the ofCable& Wireless Communications.
With structure based on the principles of the board of directors and the way in which the effect from 24 February 2016, he will be UKCorporate Governance Code 2014 provisions of the Code have been addressed.
appointed Chairmanof AWE, a non-listed theCode, which includes the following Annual evaluation company.
Given the significant changes, the governance principles: The Boards evaluation in respect of Chairman led an assessment of Mr Tylers Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy performance in 2015 is being undertaken commitments and itwas agreed that they for the Company: byan external facilitator, Independent Board would not impacthis ability to full his Performance overseeing the performance Evaluation.
The facilitator has no other commitments tothe Company.
It was agreed of the Group and also evaluating its own connection with the Company.
that the matterwould be further reviewed in performance: 12months time.
The 2015 evaluation is underway and is a Standards and values setting standards fullevaluation of the Board, its committees The Board has adopted robust processes and values to guide the affairs of the Group: and individual Board members based on fordealing with potential conicts of Oversight monitoring the effectiveness face-to-face interviews with directors and interest.
All directors declare their interests ofthe Companys risk management and regular contributors to Board meetings.
onappointment and any subsequent changes internal control systems: and Inaddition, the facilitator has observed are required to be notied to the Company Boardand committee meetings.
The results and an assessment made as to any potential People ensuring the Group is managed ofthe assessment as they apply to the Board conicts.
All directors interests are reviewed byindividuals with the necessary skills and will be discussed collectively and objectives on an annual basis and formally noted by experience, and that appointments to the agreed for 2016.
The Chairman will meet theBoard.
witheach director to provide feedback on In general, non-executive directors help Pursuant to these principles, the Board has individual performance.
Feedback on the constructively challenge and develop the putin place a detailed governance framework, Chairmans own performance will be provided Companys strategy, scrutinise the the Operational Framework, which includes by the Senior Independent Director, Nick Rose.
performance of management in meeting the Companys Code of Conduct.
It sets out Following the evaluation undertaken last agreed goals and objectives, and monitor how we do business across BAE Systems and year, the Board agreed a number of objectives thereporting of performance.
The Board encapsulates the Companys values, policies aimed at further improving its effectiveness.
considers all of the non-executive directors, and processes, together with clear levels of These included objectives concerning Board with the exception of the Chairman, to be delegated authority aimed at ensuring that succession planning, how Board members independent for the purposes of the Code.
allof its employees and businesses act in a develop their understanding of the business clear, accountable and consistent manner.
All directors seek election on an annual basis and use this to develop future strategy, and at the Annual General Meeting.
There is a clear division of responsibility at theuse of modern technology to improve thehead of the Company and these are Attendance by individual directors at meetings theefciency and effectiveness of reporting.
detailed in the Board Charter.
The Chairman of the Board and its committees in 2015 is Good progress was made against these leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring shown below.
that it discharges its duties effectively.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the implementation and delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.
Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2015 Corporate The Senior Independent Director acts as a Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration sounding board for the Chairman and acts Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee asan intermediary for the other directors Sir Roger Carr 8 8 5 5 when necessary.
He is also available to Jerry DeMuro 7 8 shareholders if they have concerns which Harriet Green 8 8 4 4 5 5 cannot be addressed through the normal channels.
TheCompany Secretary is Chris Grigg 8 8 5 5 4 4 responsible to the Board for ensuring that Ian King 8 8 board procedures are complied with.
Peter Lynas 8 8 As required by the Code, the Company Paula Rosput Reynolds 8 8 5 5 5 5 2 2 ensures that all non-executive directors Nick Rose 8 8 5 5 5 5 4 4 havesufcient time to full their obligations.
Carl Symon 3 3 1 1 2 2 This is assessed when a director is appointed Ian Tyler 7 8 5 5 4 4 5 5 and also in the event of there being a material change to an individuals circumstances.
During the year, such an assessment was undertaken for Ian Tyler.
Mr Tyler is currently chairman of Cairn Energy and Bovis Homes Group and a non-executive director of BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 63 Board committees Board of directors P60 Audit Corporate Nominations Remuneration Committee P65 Responsibility P68 Committee P70 Committee P71 Committee Nick Rose Ian Tyler Sir Roger Carr Paula Rosput Reynolds Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Paula Rosput Reynolds Harriet Green Elizabeth Corley Elizabeth Corley Ian Tyler Chris Grigg Harriet Green Nick Rose Chris Grigg Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Ian Tyler Board induction Information for the Board Risk management, internal control An induction programme is agreed for all The Chairman, with the assistance of the andviability assessment newdirectors aimed at ensuring they are Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring Principal risks ableto develop an understanding and that directors are supplied with information Details of how the Company manages awareness of the Companys core processes, ina timely manner that is in a form and of riskscan be found on pages 52 and 53 of the its people and businesses.
In addition, as part aquality appropriate to enable them to Strategic report.
This section of the report of the induction process, new directors will discharge their duties.
includes details of how the Board and its typically visit the Groups principal operations committees maintain oversight of the key risks In the normal course of business, such in order to meet employees, and gain an within the business and how these are being information is provided by the Chief Executive understanding of the Groups products and managed.
It also describes the Companys in a regular report to the Board that includes services.
Ongoing training is provided for the approach to risk management and the information on operational matters, strategic Board and individual directors as required.
processes used to identify, analyse, evaluate developments, reports onthe performance and mitigate risks.
These processes are the ofGroup operations, financial performance basis of the Companys risk management and relative to the business plan, business internal control systems, and the Board development, corporate responsibility and regularly reviews both the output from them investor relations.
The Board has completed a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and these are detailed on pages 54 to 57.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 64 Corporate governance report continued Viability assessment other matters considered and reviewed by A separate OAS return is required to be As required by the provisions of the Code, theBoard during the year, the Board has completed by the most senior BAE Systems theBoard has undertaken an assessment of reasonable expectations that the Company employee responsible for joint ventures and the future prospects of the Company taking will be able to continue in operation and meet BAE Systems employees on the boards of these account of the Companys current position its liabilities as they fall due over the periods companies are required to exert such inuence and principal risks.
This assessment was made used for the assessment.
In doing so, it is as the Company may have to encourage the using the Companys core business processes, recognised that such future assessments are adoption of a governance structure that is including the following: subject to a level of uncertainty that increases substantially equivalent to that mandated for with time and, therefore, future outcomes the Group for wholly-owned or controlled Integrated Business Plan IBP the IBP cannot be guaranteed or predicted with parts of the Group.
represents acommon process with standard certainty.
Also, this assessment was made outputs andrequirements that produces an Going concern recognising the principal risks that could have integrated strategic and business plan for an impact on the future performance of the Accounting standards require that directors theGroup and also for each of its businesses.
Company see pages 54 to 57. satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for The plan is reviewed each year by the Board them to conclude whether it is appropriate aspart of itsstrategy review process.
Once Risk management and internal control toprepare financial statements on a going approved bythe Board, the IBP is cascaded The Board is responsible for the Companys concern basis and the Code requires that, if down across all the Companys businesses risk management and internal control systems.
appropriate, this report includes a statement andprovides the basis for setting all detailed Details of these systems and how they operate to that effect.
Following review, the directors financial budgets and strategic actions that can be found on pages 52 and 53 of the have concluded that it is appropriate to aresubsequently used by the Board to Strategic report.
These include ongoing adoptthe going concern basis for these monitorperformance.
processes for identifying, analysing, evaluating financial statements and have not identied and managing the principal risks faced by the Risk management as detailed above, any material uncertainties concerning the Company, which have been in place throughout theCompany has developed a structured Companys ability to do so in the 12-month the year and up to the date of this report.
approach to the management of risk and period from the date of approving them.
For TheBoard has reviewed the effectiveness of theprincipal risks identied are considered as this reason, they continue to adopt the going the Companys risk management and internal partof the Boards annual review of the IBP.
concern basis inpreparing the accounts.
control systems, and believes that they accord Liquidity analysis based on the financial with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance Shareholder engagement output from the IBP, the Board regularly on Risk Management, Internal Control and The Company has a well-developed investor reviews an analysis looking at the forecast Related Financial and Business Reporting.
relations programme managed by the Chief working capital requirements, cash ow, and The Board has delegated to the Audit Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor committed borrowing and other funding Committee responsibility for reviewing in Relations Director.
In addition, the Chairman facilities available to the Company over the detail the effectiveness of the Companys risk isavailable to meet with major shareholders five-year period covered by the IBP.
This analysis management and internal control systems.
and is in regular contact with them so as to includes stress testing of the Companys Having undertaken such reviews, the Audit keep them informed of progress on corporate liquidity under severe, but plausible, scenarios Committee reports to the Board on its governance matters.
In order to assist in as developed from the IBP.
findings so that the Board as a whole can take developing an understanding of the views In addition to the above, the Boards review a view on this matter.
In order to assist the ofmajor shareholders, each year the ofthe effectiveness of the Companys risk Board and the Audit Committee in this review, Companycommissions a survey of investors management andinternal control systems the Company has developed the Operational undertaken by external consultants.
seebelow is important to the viability Assurance Statement OAS process as The results of the survey are presented to statement.
As such, systems are designed to detailed on page 52.
Part of this requires that theBoard.
ensure that theinformation used for business a return is completed every six months by each planning processes is accurate and robust.
operational and functional business head, The Board uses the Companys Annual Directors have also reviewed the Companys reporting their formal review against such General Meeting to communicate with insurance arrangements and the level of cover matters as compliance with law and investors.
The meeting provides all these provide.
regulations, ethical business conduct, financial shareholders with the opportunity to vote controls, risk management, compliance with onthe resolutions put to shareholders either In undertaking its review of the IBP in 2015, business planning processes, health and electronically via the Companys website or the Board considered the prospects of the safety, conicts of interest, delegated bypost.
All resolutions detailed in the Notice Company over the one and five-year periods authorities, appointment of advisers and ofMeeting are voted on by way of a poll so covered by the process.
The one-year planning product safety.
Where simple yes no answers asto ensure that all votes are counted on period has a greater level of certainty and is, are not appropriate, an assessment of thebasis of one vote for every share held.
therefore, used to set detailed budgetary compliance is required to be made against Theresults of the voting on all resolutions targets at all levels across the Group it is also structured qualitative guidance.
arepublished on the Companys website.
used by the Remuneration Committee to set targets for the annual incentive.
The five-year The twice-yearly OAS assessment process period provides less certainty of outcome, but isowned by the Companys Internal Audit provides a robust planning tool against which function, which provides assurance as to long-term decisions can be made concerning, theaccuracy of returns relative to the among other things, strategic priorities, ndingsof audit work undertaken during funding requirements, capital expenditure and theyear.
Thereturns are also shared with resource planning.
On the basis of this and theCompanys auditors.
