Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 65 Audit Committee report Dear Shareholders, Nick Rose One of the recurring themes across the Audit Committees deliberations throughout the Chairman of the Audit Committee year under review has been forward-looking assurance and how, as part of our consideration of the effectiveness of internal controls, can we best ensure that our focus isnot only on current performance of the internal control and risk management systems, but also forward-facing towards potential future areas of risk.
Members This ongoing dialogue at Committee meetings Nick Rose Chairman has supplemented the Boards discussions on Paula Rosput Reynolds risk and has led to management demonstrating to the Committee how a number of risk Ian Tyler indicators currently in use across the business could be used holistically as an additional tool Governance for focus on future assurance.
This will help The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2015 and held five meetings, inform us in a number of areas, not least of plus one joint meeting with the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
All its which is the Committees oversight of the members are independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
annual Internal Audit assurance programme Summary of responsibilities and its resourcing.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control Internal control and risk policies, and procedures for the identication, assessment and reporting of risk The Board has delegated to the Committee Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements responsibility for reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Companys risk Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function management and internal control system.
Approving an annual programme of internal audit work and reviewing TheCommittees review of internal controls theoutput has encompassed a review of the reports relating to the six-monthly Operational Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Auditors Assurance Statements OAS, which are Agreeing the scope of the Auditors annual audit programme and reviewing submitted by each business or function as theoutput amandated policy under the Group-wide Operational Framework, and controls reports Approving the audit fee and audit reports from both internal and Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review external auditors.
Assessing the effectiveness of the audit process As ever, a key controls focus for the Committee is the controls environment Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the Auditors surrounding the Companys Lifecycle tosupply non-audit services Management LCM process.
LCM is integral The Committees full Terms of Reference, which are reviewed each year by to the successful execution of the Groups theBoard, are available on the Companys website.
projects and programmes, and of particular importance in the early identication of Attendance at meetings programme risk and the determination of The Committee invites the following to its regular meetings: profit recognition or provisioning.
We have discussed the outputs of general financial Chairman: Chief Executive: Group Finance Director: and Director, Financial andLCM controls testing, and any required Control and Reporting: improvement actions, with management, Internal Audit Director, together with other senior members of the Internal andinternal and external audit, with a view Auditfunction, as appropriate: toensuring the ongoing robustness of programme execution and risk mitigation.
Other representatives from businesses and functions, as appropriate: and The Committee values meeting with operational The senior KPMG partner responsible for the BAE Systems audit, together management on a face-to-face basis to discuss withother senior audit partners, as appropriate.
the internal control environment within that particular business, and to seek feedback from The Committee holds private sessions with the Auditors and Internal Audit both internal and external audit during such Director without management present, and the Committee Chairman meets sessions.
In 2015, we focused on our Saudi privately with both internal and external audit.
Arabian business in terms of both our main business and also our portfolio of interests Reporting to the Board inindustrial companies in Saudi Arabia our The Committee Chairman provides regular updates to the Board on the key Kingdom Partner Companies KPCs which are issues discussed at the Committees meetings.
being reorganised as a result of our enhanced relationship with Riyadh Wings.
This gave us BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 66 Audit Committee report continued the opportunity to discuss the wider business businesses, the value of goodwill held on the External audit environment and its complexities, as well as balance sheet remains appropriate.
The As we have previously reported, KPMG LLP toreview the governance alignment with our methodology for impairment testing used and their legacy predecessors have been in Operational Framework by the individual KPCs.
bythe Group is set out in note 8 to the Group place as the Companys auditors since 1981 accounts on page 124. without re-tender and we have initiated an The defence industry is a highly-regulated audit re-tendering process for the 2018 Impairments: the Group has incurred a environment where export control laws and accounts, 2017 being the last year of the goodwill impairment of 75m relating to regulations place significant obligations on current audit engagement partner.
There are theUS Intelligence & Security business theCompany.
We have a well-established no contractual obligations that would restrict reecting lower growth assumptions.
legal and regulatory compliance structure theselection of a different auditor and we aimed at ensuring adherence to regulatory Pensions: Recognising the scale of the Groups undertook to use our regular reviews of auditor requirements.
In addition to receiving regular pension obligation, we reviewed the key effectiveness to assess whether an earlier date reporting on export control compliance under assumptions supporting the valuation of the for a re-tender would be desirable.
I am the OAS process and internal audit output, the retirement benefit obligation.
This included a pleased to report that our review of auditor Group General Counsel reports to the comparison of the discount and ination rates effectiveness for 2015 referred to below Committee on an annual basis in this regard.
We concluded that KPMG remain effective.
We considered thisin more detail during 2015 reviewed the methodology used to allocate a Mindful of the fact that we are a large and by reviewing with senior management from proportion of the retirement benefit obligation relatively complex Group, operating in the Groups Military Air & Information to equity accounted investments and other anumber of international jurisdictions, we business how one ofour larger businesses participating employers, and concluded that arekeen to provide a sufficient time period manages export control compliance.
This this was appropriate with reference to forparticipants in the tender to familiarise engagement with management enabled us to agreements between the Company and those themselves with our business and assess the better understand process and procedures, companies.
We also considered the adequacy key risk areas prior to them delivering their along with IT enablement, communication of disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the final audit proposal for our consideration.
and training across a substantial workforce.
deficit to changes in these key assumptions.
Oncurrent timings, the Committee expects Inparticular, the Committee reviewed and We have reviewed the ongoing effectiveness tohave completed the competitive tender agreed the allocation of the deficit between of the Companys risk management processes process by mid-2017 enabling us to make BAE Systems and Airbus.
as part of our wider review of internal controls.
arecommendation to the Board on the As part of the work that we originally Taxation: Whilst tax policy is ultimately a matter appointment of a new audit rm which undertook in the fourth quarter of 2014 at for the Boards determination, we reviewed wouldthen be subject to shareholder approval theBoards request for the Committee to the Groups tax strategy as set out on page at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
review the Companys principal risks, we 22.
On a twice-yearly basis, we reviewed the We believe this time frame to be in the best subsequently met in 2015 with the Director Groups tax charge and tax provisions.
We interests of shareholders as itallows sufficient ofInsurable Risk Services for a review of the alsoreviewed the basis for the overseas tax time for a thorough tender process and Groups insurance arrangements.
This helped provision release of 2.6p per share and the subsequent transition.
us to gain a better understanding of the UKtax provision release of 1.7p per share.
Given the length of their current incumbency Groups global insurance risk model and The Committee also agreed the parameters as our Auditors, KPMG will not be invited to principles of insurance purchase, as well as of, and reviewed the supporting report for, the tender, but are fully committed to providing giving us an overview of claims in recent years.
going concern statement and the statement asmooth transition to the incoming auditor Financial reporting on the Boards assessment of the prospects of from mid-2017, when their successor is The Committee reviews all significant issues the Company on the one and five-year periods selected, through to them stepping down concerning the financial statements.
The used in the Integrated Business Plan.
asour outgoing Auditors at the 2018 AGM, principal matters we considered concerning aperiod which will cover both our 2017 An intrinsic requirement of a groups financial the 2015 financial statements were: half-year review and full-year audit.
statements is for the report and accounts, Recognition of profit and provisioning: We As I noted above, we undertook an annual taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and reviewed key estimates and judgements prior review of the effectiveness of the Auditors.
The co-ordination and review to publication of the financial statements.
This encompassed a Group-wide evaluation of the Group-wide input into the Annual Report Ourreview included the key estimates and atmanagement and functional level, together is an extensive exercise performed within an assumptions applied in determining the with input from each of the Committee exacting time frame which runs alongside the financial status of the more significant members.
The evaluation covered areas such formal audit process undertaken by the Auditors.
programmes, including Typhoon, UK aircraft as: understanding of the Groups risks and The process to ensure that the Committee, carrier programme, Astute and Successor opportunities to facilitate the development and then the Board, are satisfied with the submarine programmes, Radford Army ofan appropriate audit plan: the robustness overall fairness, balance and clarity of the Ammunition Plant contract, losses on US ofaudit processes: objectivity: the quality of document has been underpinned by: commercial shipbuilding contracts, and Landing communications: and the ability to provide a comprehensive guidance issued to all the Helicopter Dock programme in Australia.
The seamless service across differing jurisdictions.
contributors at operational level: review of Australia shipbuilding also included We have provided feedback to the Auditors a verication process dealing with the aA$48m 24m impairment charge relating on the evaluation.
We have also discussed factual content of the reports: to shipyard assets in Williamstown.
with KPMG the need to ensure the continuity comprehensive reviews undertaken at and quality of audit during the tendering Goodwill: We considered the level of goodwill different levels in the Group that aim to period, particularly given the necessary rotation held on the Groups balance sheet in respect ensure consistency and overall balance: and of significant partners off the account in the of a number of past major transactions and interim, and have agreed with them a comprehensive review by the directors whether, given the future prospects of these transition plan that includes partner rotation.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 67 On the basis of the review following the 2015 theappropriate level of independence, Auditor independence year-end audit, the Committee has proposed to besuitablyskilled and resourced, ensure Non-Audit Services Policy the Board that it recommend that shareholders thatits recommendations are actionable support the re-appointment of KPMG LLP at andacted on, and be able to escalate The Committee has a formal policy the 2016 AGM.
mattersto the Committee if required.
governing the engagement of the Theoutput of the evaluation was discussed New EU regulations on non-audit services Auditorsto provide non-audit services with the Internal Audit Director and the become effective from June 2016 which may which we review on an annual basis.
The Committee concluded that the Internal be impacted by UK legislation prior to that date.
Policy prohibits certain activities from Auditfunction remains effective.
We will be keeping this under review, not only beingundertaken by the Auditors such with respect to the non-audit services currently In 2013, I reported that the Internal as:book-keeping and work relating to provided by KPMG, but also with regard to Auditfunction had undergone an External thepreparation of accounting records and any such services currently provided by audit QualityAssessment, the output of which financial statements that will ultimately rms who participate in our audit re-tender.
Since then, the function besubject to external audit: financial Our present Non-Audit Services Policy, and hasbeen building further on its effectiveness information system design and how auditor objectivity and independence in anumber of areas, including the attainment implementation: internal auditing: and aresafeguarded, are discussed opposite.
ofexternal accreditation by individual internal anywork where a mutuality of interest is audit managers.
One keyvalue-add in recent created that could compromise the Internal Audit years has been to includethe audit of our independence of the Auditors.
The Policy Internal Audit plays an integral role in the culture as a part of theinternal audit process.
also places restrictions on the employment Companys governance structure and provides The feedback from this latest evaluation will of former employees of the Auditors.
regular reports to the Committee, including be incorporated into the next phase of the the outputs of the twice-yearly OAS process Recognising that the Auditors are best functions continuous improvement plan.
and the tracking of remedial action in the case placed to undertake certain work of of any control failures.
Our forward-looking Other key areas anon-audit nature, the Policy permits assurance themehas been carried over into During the year, the Committee has: theprovision of Audit-Related Services this area ofreporting too in order to enable andPermitted Non-Audit Services up agreed the Auditors terms of engagement usto get afeel for areas where there may be tolimits that are pre-approved by the and the audit fee: emerging riskthat has not yet been identied Committee, with specic approvals reviewed and agreed the scope of the as such.
required beyond such limits by the external audit plan with the Auditors: Committee.
A copy of the policy is The annual internal audit programme is considered the accounting, financial available on the Companys website, agreed jointly by the Audit and Corporate controland audit issues reported by baesystems.
Responsibility committees to ensure that the theAuditors that owed from the over-arching internal audit programme includes Details of fees payable to the Auditors are auditwork: the assessment of the effectiveness of key set out on page 116.
In 2015, non-audit reviewed the conrmation and information areas of ethical and reputational risk, as well fees represented 44% of the audit fee.
The received from KPMG on the arrangements as financial risk.
The assurance programme principal non-audit services provided by the that it has in place to safeguard its covers a broad range of audits covering areas Auditors related to M&A, tax compliance independence and objectivity: such as mandated governance, OAS outputs, and advisoryservices, the interim review reviewed and discussed on a quarterly riskregister findings, change programmes, and and equity advisory services.
basisthe nature and level of non-audit areas relating to responsible behaviour and fees, and undertaken an annual review non-financial risk, as well as accommodating ofthe Non-Audit Services Policy which ad hoc internal audit requests.
The Committee weconcluded was still appropriate considered the output from the 2015 annual seeabove : internal audit programme of assurance twice Competition & Markets Authority during the year.
reviewed the effectiveness of the AuditOrder Companyshelpline procedures in During the year under review, we took the respectofthe reporting of possible The Committee has complied with the opportunity when we were in the US to meet accounting, financial control or other provisions of the Competition & Markets with the Groups US Vice President, Internal financial irregularities, which form Authority Audit Order in setting out on Audit, who briefed us on the approach to partofour wider Ethics Helpline page 66: i the financial year in which the internal audit in that jurisdiction.
procedures, andconcluded that the Company will next complete a Competitive We monitor the effectiveness of the Internal procedures continueto work Tender Process Tender : and ii the Audit function on an annual basis and, this effectively: and reasons as to why completing a Tender year, we revised the format and content of reviewed on a twice-yearly basis inthat year is in the best interests of the theevaluation tool enabling us to elicit a wider theprocedures for the identication, Companys members.
range of responses across areas including the assessmentand reporting of risk, role of internal audit, audit planning, people oneofthereviews having been and skilling, processes, execution and reporting.
undertakenjointly with the Corporate Feedback was requested from the various .
heads of the Audit Review Boards across the Group and other senior business leaders as Nick Rose well as from the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee is mindful of the need for the Internal Audit function to operate with BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
