Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 62 Nomination Committee Safety and Sustainability Committee Philip Aiken Maureen Kempston Chairman of Darkes the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Safety and Sustainability Committee The role of the Committee is to monitor the structure The principal role of the Committee is to drive greater focus and composition of the Board, including responsibility for on the development of the safety culture within the business recommending Board appointments, and to consider the through the Zero Harm programme and to review the strategy, processes and plans for senior executive recruitment, environmental performance of the Group.
the Groups succession planning and talent management.
Summary of activities in 2015 Summary of activities in 2015 In 2015, the Committees work programme entailed the The Committee met for the first time in July 2015, having selection of and recommendations to the Board for the assumed the safety and environmental responsibilities of the appointment of two new non-executive Directors.
former Business Practices Committee, with the objective of providing greater emphasis on these areas.
Oversight of the All appointments to the Board are based on merit, whistleblowing policies and procedures is now provided by against objective criteria, having due regard for diversity, the Audit and Risk Committee, whilst ethics and compliance including gender.
reports are reviewed by the Board.
In seeking suitable candidates for the positions, The Zygos The principal role of the Committee is to drive greater focus Partnership, an external executive search agency was on the development of the safety culture within the business engaged.
The Committee identified the competencies through the Zero Harm programme and to review the sought and the required experience, and the agency environmental performance of the Group.
prepared shortlists of potential candidates who were interviewed by members of the Committee and by the In addition to the standard agenda items designed to provide executive Directors.
the Committee with objective reporting of absolute and relative performance against agreed KPIs, during the year Key determinants in the selection of the non-executive the Committee has overseen the simplification of the UK Directors were a background in organisations that share health and safety function by creating a UK-wide centre of key dynamics with Balfour Beatty, including contracting, expertise under one leadership team.
This has facilitated customer service, major capital projects, infrastructure and the development of a more proactive, risk-based approach B2B services.
focused on end-to-end risk elimination, improved learning and The search agency appointed was reminded to approach communication.
The UK function also performs a Group-wide a diverse talent pool of candidates, and has no other data collection and reporting role.
In the US, safety issues will be dealt with separately because of different statistical measurement of performance, although Areas of focus in 2016 every opportunity will be taken to share and promote best In January 2016, the Committee received a comprehensive practice across the Group.
presentation on the succession and development plans The Committee considered certain significant health and for the Groups senior leadership team and discussed safety-related incidents, including fatalities, discussing in successions plans for the Board.
It will continue to detail the themes around supervision, communications and monitor the appropriateness of the composition of the remote working.
Board and if appropriate, make recommendations to the Board concerning the need for the introduction of new Areas of focus in 2016 non-executive Directors.
The implications of the business strategy for senior executive recruitment and the impact on In 2016, the Committee will continue to focus on the key the Groups succession planning are also areas which the reputational risk areas of health and safety and sustainability Committee will consider during the year.
and will monitor progress against the various action plans.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
