Barratt Developments PLC 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has continued to oversee carefully the business risk and internal control framework during this period of rapid growth, Mark Rolfe whilst addressing the pipeline of governance Audit Committee and accounting standard developments.
We have Chairman worked hard to keep our financial reporting fair, balanced and understandable so that it remains relevant and useful to our stakeholders.
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the a Key achievements in FY15 financial year ended 30 June 2015.
The main role of the Audit Committee is to: Continued to shift emphasis in risk management monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and towards operational risk as the business any proposed formal announcements relating to the Groups continues its strong profitable growth trend, financial performance, including any significant financial supported by management presentations on reporting judgements and whether the Annual Report and valuation methodology, joint venture processes, Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: shared equity portfolio management and monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal taxation.
Audit Committee briefing papers audit function: streamlined accordingly: review the Companys principal risks, systems of internal control and risk management: and Worked closely with our internal and external audit teams to ensure that our internal control processes keep under review the relationship between the Group and the remain robust and our financial reporting clear and external auditor, including their re-appointment, independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit accurate: and process, whilst continually monitoring and, where required, Monitored best practice implementations of the challenging the ratio between audit and non-audit fees.
2012 UK Corporate Governance Code through Audit Committee terms of reference benchmarking our 2014 Report and Accounts in the a www.
co. uk investors context of the Financial Reporting Councils Clear corporate-governance governance-policies and Concise initiative.
Assessed the implications ofnew reporting standards on Revenue Recognition The following section details the work undertaken by the Audit IFRS 15 and Financial Instruments IFRS 9 and the Committee in respect of the financial year under review.
implications of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Mark Rolfe Code changes on principal risks, going concern Chairman of the Audit Committee and viability.
8 September 2015 a Areas for focus in FY16 Implement the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code changes in full, having concluded on appropriate assumptions for the longer term viability statement: and Monitor emerging practice in respect of the auditors enhanced audit report.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Main activities undertaken during the financial year The Audit Committee follows an annual work programme, which covers the principal responsibilities as set under its terms of reference which was fully completed during the year.
The main areas focused on by the Audit Committee during the year were as follows: Integrity of financial statements and announcements Analysed drafts of half and full year results announcements.
Reviewed and addressed key accounting judgements and significant issues see page 68.
Assessed proforma financial statements for FY15.
Reviewed process established to confirm if Going concern Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced Committee effectiveness and understandable.
Assessed the Groups available facilities, C onsidered and approved material accounting policies, Reviewed and made progress against headroom and banking covenants.
matters arising from the 2014 annual Reviewed managements detailed analysis, evaluation.
Assessed and approved pension assumptions.
which included forecasts and scenarios Undertook an internal evaluation of its considering potential downturns in the Received updates on the implications of new accounting own performance.
standards and key regulatory changes.
Reviewed and devised an action plan to Satisfied itself, and recommended to the More information available on pages 59, 68 and 69 address the issues arising from the 2015 Board, that the going concern basis of annual evaluation.
preparation continues to be appropriate.
More information available on page 58 Considered the implications of the revised disclosure requirements on going concern under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
More information available on pages 68 and 101 Governance Received updates on proposed corporate governance disclosures for the 2015 Annual Internal control and risk management systems Report and Accounts.
Regularly reviewed the effectiveness of Received updates on general corporate internal controls and risk management governance requirements, including in systems in the context of the Companys particular the steps needed to support appetite for risk.
and underpin the introduction of a viability Received regular updates from the statement in the Annual Report and Risk Committee.
Audit Committee Received regular updates from Reviewed and approved its terms activity 2015 the Chief Internal Auditor upon of reference.
whistleblowing and suspected frauds andrelated investigations.
Reviewed the policy framework and thepolicies specifically allocated to it.
Received updates on the Groups disaster recovery policies and processes.
Reviewed and recommended to the Board External audit for approval the principal risk disclosures for FY15 Annual Report and Accounts.
Agreed external audit plans for the half and full year ends.
Reviewed external auditor reports on half and full year financial statements.
M et with the external audit partner without management being present.
Internal audit A ssessed the effectiveness and performance of the external audit.
Received regular updates from the Chief Assessed and confirmed the independence of the external auditor.
Internal Auditor on matters arising from audits undertaken throughout the business.
C onsidered and recommended to the Board the re-appointment ofDeloitte LLP as the Groups auditor.
Met with the Chief Internal Auditor without management being present.
Regularly reviewed the ratio between audit to non-audit fees.
Reviewed and agreed the internal audit plan Reviewed and updated the Policy on Auditor Independence and for FY16.
Assessed the effectiveness of the internal More information available on pages 71 and 72 audit function.
More information available on page 72 Barratt Developments PLC 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee report continued Membership and attendance at Audit Committee meetings a Significant issues considered during In order to provide the Audit Committee with an appropriate mix of the financial year skills and experience, including financial expertise, all Non-Executive Directors sit on the Audit Committee.
I can confirm that, in accordance The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee during the with Code provision C. 3.1, each of the members is considered to be financial year and how each of them was addressed is as follows: independent and, the Board is satisfied that, as I am a chartered accountant and have many years experience in various financial Going concern roles, I have recent and relevant financial experience.
There were The Audit Committee: four scheduled meetings during the year.
Details of the members andattendance at each of the meetings is shown in Table 5. assessed the Groups available facilities, headroom and banking covenants: Table 5 reviewed managements detailed analysis, which included Member Role Number of meetings attended forecasts and scenarios considering potential downturns Mark Rolfe Chairman 4 4 in the housing market: Richard Akers Member 4 4 satisfied itself, and subsequently the Board, that the going Tessa Bamford Member 4 4 concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate in Nina Bibby Member 4 4 thecontext of the Groups funding and liquidity position: and Note: considered the revised disclosure requirements on going 4 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
4 Number of meetings whilst a Director.
Further details upon the Groups going concern assessment In addition to the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, canbe found on page 112. representatives from Deloitte LLP and the Chief Internal Auditor attended each of the Audit Committee meetings.
They met with Financial reporting members of the Audit Committee independently of management The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the Financial and the Chairman of the Board.
The Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other members of Senior Management also Statements of the Group and the Company and all formal announcements relating to the Groups and Companys financial attended meetings or parts thereof, by invitation, as required.
After each meeting, I have reported to the Board upon business performance.
This process included the assessment of the following primary areas of judgement and took into account undertaken to ensure that all Directors are informed of the Audit Committees work.
Significant financial judgements for 2015 Goodwill and intangible assets Carrying value of land and work in progress Available for sale financial assets impairment review Land and work in progress WIP are the most The Group holds 107.0m of available for sale financial The Group has 792.2m of goodwill and 100.0m of significant assets of the Group and at 30 June 2015 were assets which principally comprise interest free loans intangible assets which arose upon the acquisition valued at 4,113.5m.
We undertake housebuilding and made to purchasers upon the sale of a property and of Wilson Bowden.
The Group reviews the carrying commercial development and the majority of activity secured by way of a second charge.
These loans are value of these assets on an annual basis to ensure we carry out is not forward sold before we commence held at fair value and the valuation of them requires a that the present value of the future cash flows that development.
Accordingly, there is a risk that land and number of judgements including the expected market the housebuilding business is expected to generate WIP may be held at a value more than the lower of cost value of the property at the date of repayment, the date isgreater than the carrying value of these assets.
This and net realisable sale value.
The Group conducts half the loan will be repaid and the appropriate rate that review includes a number of judgements around the yearly reviews of land and WIP carrying value and if the should be used to discount the value of these loans.
estimation of future cash flows and the determination estimated net realisable value is lower than the carrying ofan appropriate rate to discount these cash flows.
value, it impairs the land and WIP value.
How the Audit Committee addressed those judgements Goodwill and intangible assets Carrying value of land and work in progress valuation Available for sale financial assets impairment review The Audit Committee considered land and WIP The Audit Committee considered available for sale The Audit Committee considered a goodwill and accounting judgements papers at its February, June financial asset accounting judgements papers at its intangible assets accounting judgements paper at its and September meetings.
These outlined the review February and September meetings.
These outlined the September meeting.
This outlined the assumptions process undertaken and the judgements made with assumptions made, the sources for these assumptions, made, the sources for these assumptions, and the regards to the estimation of further sales process and and the resulting valuation.
Deloitte LLP reported resulting valuation.
Deloitte LLP reported upon goodwill further build costs.
Deloitte LLP reported upon land and upon available for sale asset valuation at the February and intangible assets valuation at the September WIP valuation at the February and September meetings and September meetings in the context of the half meeting in the context of the year end audit.
Following in the context of the half year review and year end audit.
year review and year end audit.
Following detailed detailed consideration of the accounting judgements Following detailed consideration of the accounting consideration of the accounting judgements papers paper and the findings of Deloitte LLP, the Audit judgements papers and the findings of Deloitte LLP, the and the findings of Deloitte LLP, the Audit Committee Committee agreed with the judgements made by Audit Committee agreed with the judgements made by agreed with the judgements made by management management and concluded that the valuation of management and concluded that the valuation of our and concluded that the valuation of available for sale goodwill and intangible assets remains appropriate.
land and WIP remains appropriate.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Amongst other matters, the risks reviewed by management, Fair, balanced and understandable theAudit Committee and the Board include: The Audit Committee also undertook a detailed process to economic environment, including housing demand and consider whether the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
It considered the feedback mortgage availability: provided by shareholders in respect of the 2014 Annual Report land and strategic land option purchasing: and Accounts, the Groups trading updates and the information liquidity: that the Board had received throughout the year.
The Audit Committee received an early draft of the 2015 Annual Report attracting and retaining high-calibre employees: and Accounts including the risk management statement and availability of raw materials, suppliers of products of the quality principal risks disclosure to allow itself sufficient time to review required and suitably qualified subcontractors and labourers: the disclosures therein.
It also received a report from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary which confirmed that: Government regulation, housebuilding and planning policy: i the Annual Report and Accounts had been reviewed by the construction and new technologies: Group Executive Directors: and ii the Company had received joint ventures and consortia: confirmation from its external advisers, that the Annual Report and Accounts adhered to the requirements of the Code and safety, health and environmental: and relevant rules and regulations.
The Audit Committee then IT.
assessed, at its September 2015 meeting, whether the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
Details of the management of risk system utilised and the It reviewed the processes underpinning the compilation and principal risks and uncertainties and their relevance to the assurance of the Annual Report and Accounts, in relation to operations and financial performance of the Group are set out in thefinancial and non-financial management information.
It also Risk management on pages 40 to 45 of the Strategic Report: and reviewed the internal processes underpinning the Groups iv a ssessment of compliance with the internal control and reporting governance framework and the reviews and findings risk management systems.
This assessment is supported of the Groups external legal advisers and the auditor.
The Audit by the Groups internal audit team which is responsible for Committee concluded that the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts undertaking an annual audit plan, ad hoc audits and reporting were fair, balanced and understandable and recommended as to the Audit Committee, and, if necessary, the Board, on the such to the Board.
operation and effectiveness of those systems and any material failings with them.
The planned programme of audit appraisals The effectiveness of internal controls and the risk across Group operations is approved by the Audit Committee.
management process It includes full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk The Audit Committee plays a vital role in managing the areas such as the land viability process, land acquisition cost effectiveness of internal controls and the risk management controls and monitoring WIP and subcontractor payment process on behalf of the Board.
The key aspects of the Groups controls.
Where the internal audit team does not have the system of internal control and risk management framework are expertise or resources required to conduct complex audits as follows: they use external expertise.
i a c lear organisational structure with defined levels of authority and responsibility for each operating division: ii financial and management reporting systems under which financial and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional and Group levels on a monthly basis: iii i dentification and review of principal operational risk areas to ensure they are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting system.
This is so that the identification and control of risk are a routine aspect ofmanagement responsibility.
Barratt Developments PLC 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee report continued The Groups operations and financing arrangements expose it to reviewed in detail the output of the six monthly controls a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in self-certification process from each of the divisions: borrowing and debt profiles, government policy, market prices, considered all whistleblowing and suspected fraud reports credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The most significant and actions: of these to the Group is liquidity risk.
Accordingly, there is a reviewed all internal audit results and action plans: regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting of cash flows from the operations to Group management to ensure that received regular reports from the Risk Committee in respect risks are promptly identified and appropriate mitigating actions of the work it had undertaken to review the effectiveness taken.
These forecasts are further stress tested at a Group level of the Groups internal control policies and procedures for on a regular basis to ensure that adequate headroom within the identification, assessment and reporting of risks and for facilities and banking covenants is maintained.
In addition, the assessing individual key risks on a rolling basis: Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks reviewed the concurrency of the principal risks and the risk to limit the adverse effects of the other risks on its financial management framework to determine if the descriptions of performance, in particular by using financial instruments, their operation were up to date, the system of internal control including debt and derivatives, to hedge interest and currency remains effective and reported their findings to the Board rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for when considering the draft interim and full year Financial speculative purposes.
Activities are delegated, by the Board, to a Statements: assisted the Executive Committee to prioritise centralised Treasury Operating Committee, which in turn reports the risk framework by identifying the risks considered most to the Board.
The treasury department implements guidelines significant to the Group and assessed their potential impact on that are established by the Board, in accordance with approved the business of any risks identified: and treasury policies, and the Treasury Operating Committee.
assessed the structure deployed by the Group when assessing During the year the Audit Committee: risks.
This is set out in Risk management on pages 40 to 45 of reviewed the effectiveness of risk management and internal the Strategic Report.
controls in relation to material financial risks: The Audit Committee is pleased with the progress with its short reviewed a number of process improvements and confirmed and medium term work programmes to date, and recognises that the risk management and internal control systems had that work will need to be continued in these areas during the next been in place throughout the year ended 30 June 2015 and that financial year.
they and their effectiveness accord with the Code: Review of accounting policies provided regular reports to the Board in respect of its findings on the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk The Audit Committee considered the impact of the accounting management process, in order to assist the Board with its standards adopted in the year and reviewed the Groups progress assessment that sound risk management and internal control on projects to consider the impact of both IFRS 9 Financial systems have been maintained throughout the year which seek Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with to safeguard shareholders investments as well as the Groups customers upon the Groups accounting policies and financial assets in accordance with principle C. 2 of the Code : statements.
Further information on the impact of accounting standards is on page 118. assisted the Board to determine the nature and extent of the significant risks that it is appropriate for the Group to take to achieve its strategic objectives and to be assured that Executive Directors and Senior Management continue to implement and maintain the Groups internal control and risk management systems within the governance and policy framework approved by the Board: spent time with management below Board level to understand risks and controls in a number of areas of the business including: cascading of internal control and risk management policies within the business: onsite IT systems: risk of cyber attacks to the business: supply chain risks: and the enhancement of financial control following the continued increase in volume of homes built: Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 ii Audit effectiveness External auditor The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external i Re-appointment of auditor audit and concluded that the audit process as a whole had been The Audit Committee considered the re-appointment of Deloitte conducted robustly and that the team selected to undertake the LLP as the auditor to the Company and whether to tender the audit had done so thoroughly and professionally.
In coming to this external audit in respect of the 2015 16 financial year.
In arriving conclusion the Audit Committee reviewed amongst other matters: at its conclusion, the Audit Committee took into account: Deloitte LLPs fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and the feedback on the effectiveness of the external audit from absence of any variations from it: divisional, regional and Group management who were closely reports highlighting the material issues and accounting involved in both the interim and year end reporting process: judgements that arose during the conduct of the audit: the Codes requirement to put the external audit out to tender every ten years.
Deloitte LLP was appointed as the auditor of feedback from Group and Regional management finance functions and the Chief Internal Auditor evaluating the theCompany through an external tender process in 2007: performance of the audit: and the appointment of Mark Goodey as the lead audit partner the report from the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team.
during FY13: iii Auditor independence and non-audit fees policy FRC guidance and the Code which suggest that the tendering should normally align with the five-yearly cycle The Audit Committee formally reviewed the policy which the ofpartner rotation: Company has implemented on Auditor Independence and NonAudit Fees the Policy during the year.
The Policy sets out the Deloitte LLPs objectivity and independence: duties of the Audit Committee and the limited range of services Deloitte LLPs performance against the audit plan for the which the auditor may provide without requiring prior approval 2014 15 financial year: and of the Audit Committee.
Any services outside this scope must be approved by the Audit Committee in order to maintain auditor the quality of advice and assistance brought to bear and received throughout the year.
independence and to monitor non-audit fees incurred by the Group.
The Policy also sets out a number of services which The Audit Committee concluded that Deloitte LLPs performance the External Auditor is excluded from providing to the Group.
as auditor to the Company continues to be satisfactory and These include: that it was not necessary to consider a tender process this year.
Mark Goodey will continue to act in this capacity until the bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records conclusion of the 2017 audit subject to satisfactory performance.
or Financial Statements: The Audit Committee will assess its tendering arrangements financial information systems design and implementation towards the conclusion of Mark Goodeys period in office, or relating to the Financial Statements or accounting records: earlier if it has reason to do so.
Accordingly, it recommended appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions, or to the Board that a resolution re-appointing Deloitte LLP as : the auditor to the Company be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
That recommendation was subsequently endorsed by the Board.
actuarial services: There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Audit internal audit outsourcing services: Committees choice of External Auditor.
management functions or human resources: broker or dealer, investment adviser, or investment banking services: legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: and executive recruiting.
Under the Policy the Company is required to, and does, obtain written confirmation from Deloitte LLP that they remain independent on an annual basis.
Deloitte LLP have also provided a comprehensive report to the Audit Committee verifying that they have performed their audit and audit-related services in line with independence requirements and assessing why Deloitte LLP believe they remain independent within the requirements of the applicable regulations and their own professional standards, which were conclusions that the Audit Committee endorsed.
Barratt Developments PLC 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee report continued In reaching these conclusions the Audit Committee reviewed, Internal Audit function amongst other matters: During the year, the Audit Committee received reports from the a report from Deloitte LLP describing their arrangements Chief Internal Auditor on the findings of internal audits conducted toidentify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: throughout the business, together with details of the proposed actions to rectify any issues identified.
In addition, the Audit the extent of the non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP: Committee monitors and reviews the systems and processes and adopted by the internal audit function to ensure that they remain the ratio of audit to non-audit fees.
As part of its review of the policy, the Audit Committee took the Audit Committee effectiveness opportunity to tighten the restrictions on the recruitment of employees from Deloitte LLP, so that no employee at whatever The Audit Committee successfully implemented the level of seniority involved in the Companys audit for a two-year recommendations arising from its 2014 performance evaluation preceding period can be hired without the pre-approval of each and once again, evaluated its own performance and that of its ofthe Chairman of the Company, the Chair of the Audit Committee members through an internal process led by the Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer.
The outcome of the review was positive, particularly in respect of each member having a clear iv Non-audit services understanding of what is expected of them to undertake and The Audit Committee continually monitored the ratio between discharge their responsibilities.
The key area of focus identified audit to non-audit fees to ensure that they remained within the related to succession planning for members of the Audit 1:1 ratio prescribed in the policy.
At the end of FY15, non-audit Committee, in particular, its Chairman.
fees represented 71% of audit fees.
Further details of the audit including audit-related and non-audit fees incurred by the Group Whistleblowing can be found on page 123.
The Chief Internal Auditor updated the Audit Committee on new The Audit Committee noted that the majority of the nonwhistleblowing incidents, ongoing investigations and the outcome audit fees related to audit-related assurance services which of any completed investigations.
On the back of these updates principally comprise the review of the Groups interim report, the Audit Committee assessed the adequacy of the Groups taxation compliance for which Deloitte LLP were appointed whistleblowing policy in accordance with the requirements of the on 1 December 2010 following a competitive tender process in Code.
It reviewed the whistleblowing procedure adopted by the which four of the leading audit firms took part, and also taxation Group, including steps that can be taken to enhance awareness advice on various land acquisitions and disposals during the of it, to ensure it remains appropriate and adequately allows year.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee was satisfied that the individuals who become aware of possible improper, unethical or work performed by Deloitte LLP was appropriate in the context even illegal behaviour to raise the matter with their manager or of ensuring their independence as auditor, particularly given that alternatively refer the matter to a confidential and independent the audit-related assurance services, relating to the review of telephone number the Whistleblowing Number.
the Groups interim report, can only be conducted by the Groups The Whistleblowing Number is available to all employees auditor and that the tax advisory services had been managed by together with sub-contractors and suppliers 24 hours a day, a partner who has no involvement with the audit of the Group.
Any issues reported to the Whistleblowing Consequently, the Audit Committee concluded that the level of Number are immediately brought to the attention of the non-audit fees was justified and did not raise any concerns in Chief Internal Auditor.
The Chief Internal Auditor reviews and terms of Deloitte LLPs independence as auditor to the Group.
investigates the issue, and at his sole discretion can seek Deloitte LLP have also confirmed, in writing, that they are in guidance from appropriate individuals within the Group, such as agreement with this conclusion.
the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, as and when The Audit Committee confirms that there are no independence he deems necessary.
issues in respect of the auditor and that the policy has been This report forms part of the Corporate governance report and is appropriately complied with throughout the year under review.
signed on behalf of the Audit Committee by: Mark Rolfe Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 September 2015
