Barratt Developments PLC 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Nomination Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee It has been a busy year for the Nomination Committee in terms of changes to the composition of the Executive Directors.
The key focus has John Allan been on ensuring that any new appointments Nomination Committee complement the skills, experience and diversity Chairman of the current Board members whilst addressing any skills gaps and contributing to the continued refreshment of the Board.
I am pleased to present my first report as the Chairman of the a Key achievements in FY15 Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee plays a vital role within the business ensuring that the Company is headed by Selected and recommended the promotion of David an effective Board which is collectively responsible for the long Thomas to the position of Chief Executive: term success of the Company.
Selected and recommended the appointment The role of the Nomination Committee entails: of Neil Cooper as the Chief Financial Officer monitoring the composition, structure and size of the Board: Designate: and evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence andknowledge of each of the members: Reviewed and recommended the re-appointment ofRichard Akers and Tessa Bamford.
making recommendations to the Board in respect of any changes required: leading the process for board appointments: a Areas for focus in FY16 regularly reviewing the time commitment required from the Review succession plans for Board members in Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors to satisfactorily fulfil their roles: and particular Non-Executive Directors and senior management: and considering and, if deemed appropriate, authorising conflict of interests.
Facilitate an external performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
Nomination Committee Terms of Reference: a www.
co. uk investors corporategovernance governance-policies John Allan Chairman of the Nomination Committee 8 September 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Main activities undertaken during the financial year The Nomination Committee met formally on four occasions during the year primarily to progress the appointments of a new Chief Executive and a new Chief Financial Officer Designate.
A number of informal meetings, conference calls and discussions also took place between Nomination Committee members, search consultants and potential candidates throughout the recruitment process.
The main areas focused on by the Nomination Committee during the year were as follows: Succession planning Appointed recruitment consultants, Korn Ferry and Russell Reynolds Associates, to assist respectively with the succession planning to appoint a new Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
R ecommended to the Board potential candidates to succeed the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
More information available on page 64 Committee effectiveness Board composition and balance Reviewed and made progress against Reviewed skills, experience and knowledge matters arising from the 2014 of each Board member.
Reviewed the tenure of each of the Undertook an internal evaluation of its Non-Executive Directors.
Considered and recommended to Reviewed and devised an action plan to the Board the re-appointments of Nomination address the issues arising from the 2015 Richard Akers and Tessa Bamford annual evaluation.
Committee More information available on page 58 More information available on pages 51 activity 2015 and 64 Governance C onsidered and confirmed the independence of and commitment to the role for each NonExecutive Director.
Considered and recommended to the Board the authorisation of the potential conflict of interest following John Allans appointment as Chairman of Tesco PLC.
Un dertook its annual review, and recommended to the Board authorisation of existing Directors potential conflicts of interest.
R eviewed and approved its annual agenda and terms of reference.
More information available on pages 52 to 65 Barratt Developments PLC 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Nomination Committee report continued candidates of both genders was prepared and reviewed by the Membership and attendance at meetings Nomination Committee in early 2015.
At an additional meeting The membership of the Nomination Committee and the in March 2015, the Nomination Committee proceeded to arrive attendance at each of its scheduled meetings is set out in at a shortlist and after consideration unanimously concluded Table 4.
I became a member of the Nomination Committee on that David Thomas, then Group Finance Director, was the best 1 August 2014 and succeeded Bob Lawson as its Chairman with candidate to succeed Mark Clare as the Chief Executive and to effect from 12 November 2014.
I chair all meetings, unless they make such recommendation to the Board.
relate to the appointment of my own successor.
In accordance with Code provision B.
I confirm that the majority of Board Following this decision, the Nomination Committee proceeded to search for a new Group Finance Director.
Russell Reynolds members including the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent by the Company.
Associates, another leading executive research practice, were appointed as search consultants.
A list of potential candidates, Table 4 both internal and external, was created and filtered down into a short list.
Interviews were initially conducted by David Thomas Member Role Number of meetings attended 1 and Rob Tansey, the Groups HR Director.
The shortlisted Bob Lawson Chairman 1 1 2 candidates then met all members of the Nomination Committee John Allan Chairman 2 2 and Steven Boyes.
It was unanimously agreed by the Nomination Richard Akers Member 3 3 Committee that the appointment of Neil Cooper as Chief Financial Tessa Bamford Member 3 3 Officer Designate be recommended to the Board.
Nina Bibby Member 3 3 3 Mark Clare Member 3 3 Both appointments were recommended to, and unanimously 4 Mark Rolfe Member 2 3 approved by the Board.
The Nomination Committee confirms that neither Korn Ferry nor Russell Reynolds have any other 1 Bob Lawson stepped down from his position as Chairman on 12 November 2014. connections with the Company.
2 John Allan became a member on 1 August 2014 and Chairman on 12 November 2014.
3 M ark Clare did not attend any meetings or parts thereof, at which the appointment of his successor Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors was being discussed.
4 M ark Rolfe was unable to attend a meeting due to unavoidable personal circumstances.
Mark Rolfe Non-Executive Directors are appointed, subject to re-election reviewed the papers and provided his comments to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
by shareholders and statutory provisions relating to the removal Note: of Directors, by the Board, for an initial three-year term and 4 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
normally serve a second three-year term.
Beyond this a third 4 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
term of up to three years may be served subject to particularly Appointment and re-appointment of Directors rigorous review and taking into account the need for progressive The Nomination Committee leads the process for appointments refreshment of the Board.
The Articles, in accordance with the to the Board and makes recommendations to the Board when Code, require any Non-Executive Director who has served nine suitable candidates have been identified.
When a vacancy arises years or more on the Board continuously to be subject to annual the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, re-appointment.
experience, independence and knowledge on the Board.
It then The letters of appointment of all Non-Executive Directors are prepares a description of the roles and capabilities required for available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered that appointment.
The search for Board candidates is carried office during normal office hours or via the Companys website out, and appointments are made, based on merit having regard www.
co. uk, copies will also be available at to the need to maintain a balance of skills and experience on the 2015 AGM for 15 minutes before and throughout the meeting.
the Board, diversity and, where appropriate, refreshment of The letters of appointment clearly set out the time commitment Board memberships.
External recruitment consultants are expected from each Non-Executive Director to ensure they usedwhere appropriate.
Each Non-Executive Director Appointment of Chief Executive and Chief Financial confirms that they are able to allocate the time commitment Officer Designate required at the time of their appointment and thereafter as part of their individual annual effectiveness review undertaken by During the year the Nomination Committee undertook a process the Chairman.
to identify a suitable candidate to take over as Chief Executive from Mark Clare when he retired from this position on 30 June During the year, the Nomination Committee considered the 2015.
An informal meeting of the Non-Executive Directors took re-appointment of Richard Akers having served three years place in October 2014 to discuss succession planning in light of and Tessa Bamford who has served six years to the Board.
Mark Clares informal notification to the Chairman that he was The Nomination Committee was satisfied that both Richard and considering stepping down as Chief Executive in 2015.
As part of Tessa, remained independent and would be able to continue to this meeting, the Non-Executive Directors assessed the skills dedicate sufficient time to fulfil their roles as Non-Executive and experience required to fulfil the Chief Executives role.
Accordingly, they were re-appointed Korn Ferry, an independent recruitment firm, was duly appointed for a further three-year term, being a second three-year term for to assist with the search for a new Chief Executive.
A list of Richard and a third three-year term for Tessa.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Retirement and re-election of Directors Board gender diversity policy The Articles currently require Directors to submit themselves for During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the Groups re-election by shareholders at the first AGM following their initial policy on Gender Diversity in light of the recommendations appointment to the Board and thereafter at intervals of no more contained within Lord Davies report, Women on Boards, as part than three years.
All Board members will, however, in accordance of its annual effectiveness exercise.
This policy was in turn also with the Code, stand for re-election by the shareholders at the considered by the Board.
The Nomination Committees primary 2015 AGM irrespective of their date of appointment and length goal remains to identify the most appropriate candidates to join ofservice on the Board.
the Board and other senior positions within the Group.
However, in accordance with its terms of reference it also seeks to ensure Biographical details of each of the Directors and supporting that in considering succession planning it has due regard to the statements for their re-election are set out on pages 46 and benefits of diversity for the Board, including gender.
Accordingly, 47 of this report and in the Notice of the 2015 AGM.
Details of the Board will continue to work only with recruitment search the Executive Directors service contracts can be found in the consultants who have adopted a voluntary code of conduct Remuneration report on page 81. addressing gender diversity.
The Board has agreed not to impose Each of the Directors has been subject to a formal performance a quota regarding gender balance.
The Nomination Committee evaluation process and the Nomination Committee, and the and the Board do however recognise the need to ensure that the Board, are satisfied that they each continue to be effective business reflects a diverse workforce, at all levels of seniority, in, and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles.
when considering Board appointments and internal promotions, The Board, therefore, recommends that shareholders approve whilst always seeking to ensure that each post is offered strictly the resolutions to be put forward at the 2015 AGM relating to the on merit to the best available candidate.
Promoting diversity re-election of all Directors.
more generally at a Senior Management level and more generally within the workforce is an objective for the Chief Executive and Directors conflicts of interest HR Director.
On 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the Act codified Barratt Developments PLC Diversity Policy the duty to avoid conflicts of interest, by which Directors have a a www.
co. uk sustainability duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or may have, a direct our-policies or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest with the Company.
This duty applies to the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity regardless of whether the Company See page 51: Gender split and page 33: Diversity and Inclusion.
could have taken advantage of it.
The Articles were amended at This report forms part of the Corporate governance report and is the AGM held on 18 November 2008 to include a general power signed on behalf of the Nomination Committee by: forthe Board to authorise such conflicts.
The Board has, in accordance with the Articles and best practice John Allan guidance, authorised the Nomination Committee to oversee the Chairman of the Nomination Committee process for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board concerning any actual or potential conflicts of interest which arise 8 September 2015 or may arise in relation to each member of the Board, including details of any terms and conditions which it deems necessary to impose on any authorisation given.
This process was carried out satisfactorily during the year in respect of all Directors, including Neil Cooper, prior to his appointment becoming effective.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary maintains a register of Directors conflict of interests which is reviewed annually.
Following this review he will make recommendations to the Board in respect of any changes to the authorisations, or terms and conditions applied, that may be required.
Each Director is responsible for notifying, and is aware of their responsibility to notify, the Chairman and or the Board of any new conflict or possible conflict and of any change in circumstances relating to authorisations already given.
The Board, when authorising any conflict or possible conflict of interest, does not count in the quorum the Director whose conflict or possible conflict is being discussed and reserves the right to exclude a Director from a meeting whilst a conflict or possible conflict is being considered.
The Board may revoke or vary any authorisation at any time.
