38 Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Introduction The Board acknowledges the importance of, and is committed to the principle of, achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
This report, together with the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration, as detailed on pages 44to 60, describes how the Principles of Good Governance, which are set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, are applied by the Group.
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that it has complied with the detailed provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, revised in September 2012, throughout the year to 31 July 2015.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly available, free of charge, from the Financial Reporting Council, online at www.
From 1 August 2015 the Company will be subject to the requirements of the revised Code which was published in September 2014 and will report on compliance with that Code in next years annual report.
Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance The Group has applied the Principles of Good Governance, including both the Main Principles and the Supporting Principles, by complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code as reported above.
Further explanations of how the Main Principles and Supporting Principles have been applied are set out below and in connection with the remuneration of the directors, in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
The Board At the date of this report the Board consists of seven directors whose names, responsibilities and other details appear on pages 34 and 35.
Two of the directors are executive and five of the directors, including the Chairman, are non-executive.
The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial resources and personnel are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also defines the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved for its decision, which includes strategy and management, structure and capital, financial reporting and controls, internal controls, contracts and agreements, communication, Board membership and other appointments, remuneration, delegation of authority, corporate governance matters, policies and other miscellaneous items.
In addition, it has a series of matters that are dealt with at regular Board meetings including an operational review, a financial review, major land acquisition, major projects, personnel, risk, health and safety, strategy, reporting requirements, company secretarial matters, corporate governance, internal control and matters for decision.
It has also adopted a framework of delegated commercial and operational authorities which define the scope of powers delegated to management below Board level.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and all the directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles require one-third of the directors to offer themselves for re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting AGM and all directors to seek re-election at least every three years.
The Articles also require new directors appointed since the last AGM to offer themselves for re-election at the next AGM.
In addition, the UK Corporate Governance Code includes a provision that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
As a result, all of the directors retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
None of the executive directors hold external directorships.
Board effectiveness The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring it operates effectively.
In this regard it pays due cognisance to the FRCs document entitled Guidance on Board Effectiveness, dated March 2011.
The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills and experience to meet the requirements of the business.
During the year there were seven Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, four meetings of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration, one meeting of the Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration and four Nomination Committee meetings.
The Board holds a meeting at least once a year dedicated almost entirely to strategy.
In addition, the Board visited the Wales and Thames Gateway divisions, as well as receiving presentations at each Board meeting from senior Head Office, regional and divisional management.
Presentations this year were given in respect of regional and divisional performance, sales and marketing, HR, IT, corporate responsibility and health and safety.
In addition, presentations are also given by external advisers and other third parties, where necessary.
In months where there are no Board meetings the directors receive interim papers to keep them informed of the Companys progress.
There were no absences from any Board or Board Committee meetings by any director during the year.
The non-executive directors met twice during the year, including once without the Chairman present.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance v50.
indd 38 30 10 2015 09:39 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 39 Training and development The Board received appropriate training and updates on various matters relevant to its role, as and when required.
Training needs are reviewed as part of the performance evaluation process and on an ongoing basis.
During the year the Board received presentations from external organisations on health and safety and the housing industry.
Board balance and independence The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, which are recorded in writing and approved by the Board, are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities, ensuring a balance of responsibility and authority at the head of the Group.
The senior independent non-executive director is John Cuthbert, who is available for shareholders to raise any queries or concerns they may have.
Each of the non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, has, at all times, acted independently of management and has no relationship which would materially affect the exercise of his or her independent judgement and decision-making.
The Company considers all of its non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, to be independent, as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Whenever any director considers that he or she is interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Group is or may be a party, due notice is given to the Board.
No such instances of any significance have arisen during the year.
Board evaluation This years evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual directors, was conducted internally, following an externally facilitated evaluation last year.
The evaluation was conducted using questionnaires and meetings with the Chairman.
This process also included the Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, evaluating the performance of the other directors and the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, assessing the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman, evaluated its own performance and the Committees, led by their respective Chairman, evaluated their own performance.
The evaluation concluded that, overall, the Board and its Committees are performing well.
Good progress has been made on action points from last years evaluation so that improvements have been made to the quality of Board information and following the appointment of a new Head of Sustainability, CR performance and reporting has also improved.
KPIs have been reviewed and appropriate changes made, while work on employee management and succession planning continues to develop.
The main areas of improvement identified by this years evaluation were further improvements to the quality of Board information: more time to be devoted at Board meetings to the consideration of risks: and further work on below Board level succession planning.
The Board Committees The Board has formally constituted Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The terms of reference for the Audit and Nomination Committees and the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration are available either on request, at the AGM or on the Groups website: www.
Other Committees of the Board are formed to perform certain specific functions as required from time to time.
Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration comprises the executive directors and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It meets at least once a year to review and recommend the terms, conditions and remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Last year it met on one occasion to review the fees and terms of appointment of the nonexecutive directors.
indd 39 30 10 2015 09:39 40 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee comprises John Cuthbert Chairman, Mike Toms, Paul Hampden Smith, Denise Jagger and John Watson, who were all members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committees main duties are to formulate plans for succession for both executive and non-executive directors and in particular, for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and to make recommendations regarding appointments to the Board.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and last year it met on four occasions.
During the year, the Committee made recommendations to the Board in relation to succession planning at both Board level and below Board level.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit using a formal, rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria recommended by the Committee, with due regard given to the benefits of diversity on the Board, in all its aspects.
The appointment of a non-executive director is for a specified term and re-appointment is not automatic and is made on the recommendation of the Committee.
During the year the Committee considered and made recommendations to the Board in relation to the re-appointment of Mike Toms as a non-executive director whose term of appointment expired during the year.
He was not present when discussions regarding his own re-appointment took place and his re-appointment was subject to particularly rigorous review in light of the fact that he had already served two terms of three years as a non-executive director.
The Committee concluded that he continued to be independent of character and judgement and therefore recommended his re-appointment.
In addition, John Cuthbert and Mike Toms met with major shareholders to discuss various options, as the appointment of the Chairman, John Watson, approaches its expiry date on 31 January 2016.
The major shareholders were supportive of the Boards preferred option, which is to renew John Watsons appointment for a further three year term, to be effective from 1 February 2016 and this was therefore approved by the Board.
He was not present when discussions took place regarding his own re-appointment.
Furthermore, the existing letter of appointment of the senior independent director, John Cuthbert, is due to expire on 31 October 2015.
He has already served two terms of three years as a non-executive director.
Following a particularly rigorous review of his performance and commitment, the Board considered that John Cuthbert remains independent of character and judgement and have, therefore, approved his appointment for a further term of three years, with effect from 1 November 2015.
John Cuthbert Chairman of the Nomination Committee 12 October 2015 Audit Committee Report Introduction I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report setting out both the objectives and work performed by the Committee during the year in relation to financial reporting, internal controls, internal audit and external audit.
Committee membership and meetings The four members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive directors.
The directors biographies on pages 34 and 35 detail the Committee members previous experience.
The Board believes that Paul Hampden Smith, as Chair of the Committee, has recent relevant financial experience and is confident that the collective experience of the Committee members enables them to act effectively as an Audit Committee.
The Committee meets at least three times per year and met three times during the year under review.
Detailed papers prepared by management and the external auditor were received by the Committee sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration of matters for discussion.
The Group Finance Director and Group Finance Manager attend meetings by invitation and were present at all meetings during the year.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The external auditor, KPMG LLP, was also in attendance at two meetings.
During the year the Committee met the external auditor without executive management present on two occasions and no matters of concern were raised in these discussions.
In addition, the Committee Chairman had regular contact with the Group Finance Director and the external auditor.
Responsibilities and terms of reference The Committee has three main areas of responsibility as follows: 1.
Financial reporting To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and position.
indd 40 30 10 2015 09:39 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 41 Responsibilities and terms of reference continued To review, and challenge where necessary, the actions and judgement of management, in relation to the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board.
Where the Committee is not satisfied with any aspect of the proposed financial reporting by the Group, it shall report its views to the Board.
Where requested by the Board, the Committee should review the content of the annual report and accounts and advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Internal control and internal audit To review the Groups internal financial controls and unless expressly addressed by a separate Board risk committee composed of independent directors or by the Board itself, the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
To consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
To review the Groups procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate remedial action to be taken.
To review, annually, the Groups policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the Bribery Act 2010.
External audit To consider the appointment re-appointment of the external auditor and to assess the independence of the external auditor, ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals.
To make appropriate recommendations, through the Board to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor.
To discuss with the external auditor, before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and to review the auditors quality control procedures and steps taken by the auditor to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements.
To review the external auditors management letter and management response.
To consider managements response to any major external audit recommendations.
To ensure the audit services contract is put out to tender at regular intervals as required by regulation or best practice and in respect of such tender, oversee the selection process and ensure that all tendering firms have such access as is necessary to information and individuals during the duration of the tender process.
To develop and monitor the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
To oversee the process for selecting the external auditor, including approval of their terms of engagement and remuneration.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
Work during the year The work of the Committee during the year is described below.
Financial reporting The Committee reviewed the draft Annual Report and Accounts, the interim results announcement and the preliminary results announcement and recommended them to the Board for approval.
In addition the Committee reviewed reports from the external auditor setting out their findings from their interim and year-end audit work.
The Committee considered that the key financial reporting judgements during the year continued to be: profit recognition: and the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress.
These key financial reporting judgement areas were discussed with the external auditor throughout the audit process and are described in more detail below: Profit recognition: gross profit for completed housing sales is recognised based on the latest whole site phase margin, which is derived as part of the site phase valuation process.
These valuations are updated frequently throughout the life of the site phase and include both actual and forecast selling prices, land costs and construction costs.
The forecast costs and revenues are estimates and are inherently uncertain due to potential changes in market conditions.
The Committee understands the Groups revenue and gross profit recognition policy and the related systems and controls.
Management outlined the existing systems and controls surrounding the valuation process.
The Committee discussed these controls, challenging management where appropriate.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work undertaken in relation to the systems and controls surrounding the valuation process and provided an explanation of the detailed substantive testing performed.
The Committee also reviewed a summary, prepared by KPMG explaining their findings from their work testing the design and operational effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls pertaining to the valuation process.
indd 41 30 10 2015 09:39 42 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Work during the year continued Following enquiry with management and the external auditor, the Committee concluded that there are appropriate systems and internal controls in place to assess and quantify both actual and forecast selling prices and costs, and that the Groups profit recognition policy is appropriate and has been properly applied in these financial statements.
Carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress: inventory is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which is determined by the whole site phase margin as set out above.
The risk is that, for any site phase currently trading or not, the whole site phase margin may be negative, resulting in a net realisable value that is below cost.
Management have reviewed all sites phases to ensure those with a forecast negative whole site phase margin have an appropriate provision, and this has been re-assessed at regular intervals during the year.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they performed in relation to the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress.
This included the procedures identified above in relation to profit recognition and a review of the latest site phase valuation for all sites phases active during the year and those that are yet to commence production.
Following enquiry with management and the external auditor, the Committee concluded that there are appropriate systems and internal controls in place to assess the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress and that the carrying value of these assets in the financial statements is appropriate.
Internal control and internal audit The Board, following guidance from the Committee, has a continuing responsibility to identify and monitor the risks facing the Group, ensuring both appropriate and effective internal controls are in place.
There is an ongoing process involving senior management to ensure that risks are appropriately identified and documented on an internal risk register.
This register also summarises any internal controls that mitigate the identified risks.
Risk is reviewed on a systematic basis throughout the year at each Board meeting, with a full review of the risk register taking place at least annually.
This internal control and risk management process only mitigates the risk of material misstatement or loss, and does not eliminate this risk completely.
The principal risks identified by the Board and senior management are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 27 to 29, and cover the main aspects of the business, including land acquisition, planning, construction, health and safety, environment, sales, personnel, information technology, treasury management and legal and regulatory compliance.
In addition, there is a responsibility to mitigate risk by the provision of adequate insurance cover and by management reporting on material changes in the business or external environment affecting the risk profile.
There is a system of regular reporting to the Board which provides for appropriate details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a systematic and ongoing basis, to review the key risks inherent in the business, the operation of the systems and controls necessary to manage such risks and their effectiveness and to satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are being taken to mitigate these risks.
The key areas of control are as follows: The Board has agreed a list of key risks which affect the Group, which are reviewed throughout the year, and has considered the extent to which the measures taken by the Group mitigate those risks.
The acquisition of land and land interests is initiated by divisional management and reviewed by the regional chairmen prior to submission to Head Office for approval.
All land acquisitions must achieve minimum financial acquisition criteria and are subject to approval by the executive directors and in certain circumstances, approval by the Board.
A comprehensive monitoring and reporting system is in place entailing annual budgets, monthly forecasting and management reporting, including variance analysis and commentary.
This is produced by divisional management and reviewed by the regional chairmen and function heads at Head Office.
Summaries are also provided to the executive directors.
Monthly divisional board meetings are held to review divisional performance, which are attended by the regional chairmen.
The executive directors attend certain divisional board meetings on a regular basis during the year, and this is supplemented with main Board visits to divisions.
Site phase valuations are produced periodically throughout the life of a site phase, with the actual and forecast costs and revenues produced at a divisional level prior to review by the divisional management team and Head Office team.
Regular visits to sites by in-house health and safety managers and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance.
A central treasury function operates at Head Office, ensuring the optimum financing is obtained for the Group as a whole.
A number of the Groups key functions are dealt with centrally.
These include taxation, pensions, insurance, information technology, legal, personnel and company secretarial functions.
This centralisation ensures a consistent approach and the appropriate range of skills to manage these specialised areas.
Where any control recommendations are made by the external auditor, these are considered and where relevant, are implemented to further strengthen the control environment.
As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, during the year the Audit Committee considered whether there is a need for an internal audit function and made their recommendation to the Board.
The Committee concluded that whilst the Group has robust systems and strong internal controls, further consideration should be given to the possible introduction of an internal risk function, given the rapid growth of the Group in recent years.
indd 42 30 10 2015 09:39 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 43 Work during the year continued The Groups whistleblowing policy is well publicised at all locations and allows all employees to raise concerns in confidence via either the Group Company Secretary or, alternatively, an independent third party.
All reports are investigated by the Group Company Secretary and the outcome reported to the Board.
The whistleblowing policy is formally reviewed and approved by the Committee on an annual basis.
The Groups Bribery Act 2010 Policy and Procedures are circulated throughout the Group and are shown on the Groups intranet.
The Bribery Act Policy and Procedures are formally reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
During the year, there were no significant internal control issues identified by the Groups internal control monitoring procedures, as detailed above.
External audit As part of the audit planning process KPMG LLP, the Groups external auditor, presented a detailed audit plan to the Committee in March 2015 including details of what they consider to be the significant risks, materiality, scoping and the audit timetable.
The audit plan was considered by the Committee, which concurred with KPMG LLP that the primary risks were the valuation of inventories and margin recognition due to the significant value and inherent judgement required and that the materiality level was appropriate.
As part of the normal annual cycle the Committee reviewed the performance of the Groups external auditor through discussions with management and assessing both the timeliness and quality of reporting against the audit plan.
In addition the independence and objectivity of the external auditor was also considered in detail.
KPMG LLP provided an independence confirmation, as required by professional ethical standards, setting out the procedures and safeguards they have in place to maintain their independence and objectivity.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and overseeing the Groups Independent Auditor Policy which seeks to preserve the independence of the external auditor by defining those non-audit services the independent auditor may and may not provide.
There are clearly defined levels of approval depending on the value of work to be provided.
Where fees exceed 100,000 or where total non-audit fees equate to 100% of audit fees, Board approval is required.
In respect of any material project with fees in excess of 200,000 where the auditor is considered for the provision of services, this would be the subject of a competitive tendering process.
The Groups independent auditor would not be engaged for any of the following non-audit related services: book-keeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the Group: financial information system design and implementation: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions, or contributions in kind reports: actuarial services: internal audit outsourcing services: management functions or personnel human resources: broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services: legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: and any other service that is impermissible by regulation.
For an analysis of fees paid to KPMG LLP see note 4 on page 80.
The non-audit fees are for tax compliance and ad hoc tax advisory work and an audit of the Groups final salary pension scheme, which is closed to future accrual.
The Committee has considered the transitional arrangements issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in relation to the requirement to tender the audit at least every ten years, whereby the external audit tender process would take place at the point of the lead audit partner rotation.
The current auditor has been in place and the audit has not been tendered since the Company was listed in 1979, with the lead audit partner having been the subject of rotation in accordance with Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3.
The lead audit Partner, Nick Plumb, has just completed his second year of a maximum of five years in this role.
It is the Companys current intention to put the external audit contract out to tender within the next five years, subject to the annual performance reviews carried out by the Committee.
Following the review of the auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness the Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP should be re-appointed at the forthcoming AGM.
Other matters During the year, the Committee considered the system and controls for Bribery Act compliance, the Groups disaster recovery procedures, the Groups IT systems upgrade and the introduction of an annual compliance certificate to be completed by all senior management.
Paul Hampden Smith Chairman of the Audit Committee 12 October 2015 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance v50.
