Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report Leadership Board composition, diversity and experience as at 30 June 2015 Board composition Non-Executive Director tenure excluding the Chairman including the Chairman 4 0% 0-3 years 60% 3 years Executive Directors 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 Gender split Experience Business Housebuilding Construction Finance Marketing Male 75% Female 25% Retail development Commercial development See page 65 for details on Board diversity See page 33 for details on diversity in the workforce Barratt Developments PLC 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate governance report Leadership continued Board balance Key responsibilities of the Board The names, responsibilities and other details of each of the The Board has overall responsibility for: Directors of the Board are set out on pages 46 and 47 with promoting the long term success of the Group: the composition of the Board on page 51.
Currently, the Board the conduct of the business of the Group: believes that it has an appropriate balance of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors having regard to the ensuring that the obligations to its shareholders and others size and nature of the business.
In addition, the combination areunderstood and met: of the experience and calibre of the Non-Executive Directors setting the strategic direction of the Group: and collectively, having regard to their diverse backgrounds and experience and their varying lengths of service, further enhances ensuring that the Company has adequate resources and this balance thereby mitigating against the risk of group think.
appropriate controls, values and standards in place to deliver its strategy within a framework that enables risk to be identified Board independence and managed.
The Company recognises the importance of its Non-Executive Directors remaining independent throughout their appointment, The Board has an annual standing agenda which has been a which enables them to provide objective advice and guidance set in accordance with its terms of reference and matters to the Executive Directors and senior managers through the reserved specifically to it, see the Companys website at use of their wide business, commercial experience and diverse www.
The Non-Executive Directors are also able to governance governance-policies constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of the Executive Directors, assisting them to assess the integrity of the financial information considered by the Board and disclosed to Membership and attendance at Boardmeetings the Companys shareholders.
In addition, their independence is of Members of the Board throughout the financial year and utmost importance when considering the appointment or removal attendance at each of its scheduled meetings are set out in Table 1. of Executive Directors and in the determination of succession planning for the Board and other key individuals within the Group.
Table 1 All of the Non-Executive Directors remained independent during Member Role Number of meetings attended the financial year: they have no business or other relationships with the Group that might influence their independence or 1 Bob Lawson Chairman 3 3 judgement confirmed as part of the annual conflict of interests 2 John Allan Chairman 8 8 review see page 65.
Details of their interests as shareholders 3 Mark Clare Group Chief Executive 9 9 are contained in Table 15 on page 88 of the Remuneration report.
David Thomas Group Finance Director 9 9 John Allan joined the Board in August 2014 and was appointed Steven Boyes Chief Operating Officer 9 9 Non-Executive Chairman of the Company with effect from Richard Akers Non-Executive Director 9 9 12 November 2014.
He was considered to be independent on Tessa Bamford Non-Executive Director 9 9 his appointment to the Board and subsequently as Chairman.
4 Nina Bibby Non-Executive Director 7 9 During the year, the Nomination Committee considered John 5 Mark Rolfe Senior Independent Director 8 9 Allans other significant commitments, as set out on page 46.
Taking into account John Allans decision to step down from the 1 B ob Lawson stepped down from his position as Chairman of the Company on 12 November 2014.
Boards of Dixons Carphone Plc in February 2015, Royal Mail and 2 J ohn Allan joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate on 1 August 2014.
He became Chairman of the Company on 12 November 2014. the DHL Foundation in April 2015 and as Chairman of Worldpay in 3 M ark Clare stepped down from his position as Group Chief Executive on 30 June 2015 and as a September 2015, the Nomination Committee concluded that his Director on 31 July 2015.
4 N ina Bibby was unable to attend two Board meetings due to jury service and her attendance being remaining other commitments do not impinge upon his availability required at O2 immediately following the announcement of the proposed acquisition by Hutchison to fulfil his duties to the Company.
His other commitments were Whampoa.
Nina reviewed the papers for each of the meetings and provided her comments to the Chairman prior to the meetings.
also considered during the annual review of effectiveness of the 5 M ark Rolfe was unable to attend a meeting due to unavoidable personal circumstances.
Mark Rolfe Chairman led by the Senior Independent Director and the same reviewed the papers and provided his comments to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
Note: 9 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
9 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
An additional meeting was held in March 2015 to approve the appointment of David Thomas as Chief Executive, following the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Full details can be found on page 64.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 How the responsibilities of the Board are divided The Chairman Leads the Board in the determination of strategy and in the achievement of its objectives: Facilitates the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: Makes certain that the continued development needs of the Directors are identified and addressed: and Ensures effective communication with shareholders.
Chief Executive Responsible for delivery of the Board strategy: Responsible for the day-to-day leadership and management of the operational activities of the Group in accordance with overall strategy and policy as determined by the Board: Recommends Group strategy to the Board: and Chairs the Executive Committee through which he carries out his duties.
Group Finance Director Responsible for devising and implementing the Groups financial strategy and policies.
Chief Operating Officer Responsible for the Groups housebuilding operations.
The Senior Independent Director Responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, at least annually: Responsible for ensuring that, where required, he is available to shareholders to: i address any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Chief Executive have failed to resolve: and ii listen to their views in order for the Company to gain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns: and Act as a sounding board for the Chairman and, if necessary, an intermediary for the other Directors.
Independent Non-Executive Constructively challenge the Executive Directors: Directors Develop proposals on strategy: and Monitor the implementation of the Groups strategy within its risk and control framework.
Group General Counsel and Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties: Company Secretary Available to all directors for advice and support: Keeps the Board regularly updated on governance matters: Ensures Group policies and procedures are maintained and updated on a regular basis: and Attends, and maintains a record of the matters discussed and approved at, Board and Committee meetings.
Barratt Developments PLC 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate governance report Leadership continued Main activities undertaken during the financial year including Matters Reserved The Board had nine scheduled meetings during the financial year to review and approve various key business proposals including those matters specifically reserved to it.
The key responsibilities of the Board and its multi-dimensional work programme throughout the year are set out below: Strategy and management Offsite strategic review in January focusing on performance against strategy, objectives, business plan and budget.
Financial reporting and controls Reviewed and approved various material land Reviewed monthly reports on investments transactions.
performance against budget, forecast Received presentations from business functions and three-year plan.
Other on strategic opportunities for the future.
Reviewed and approved half and full year Undertook collective site visits to results and announcements.
the Northern and East regions of Assessed if Annual Report and Accounts the business.
were fair, balanced and understandable.
Reviewed and updated management Approved 2014 Annual Report succession plans.
Approved payment of an interim dividend and agreed to recommend payment of a final dividend and special cash Board composition and effectiveness payment under the Groups Capital Return Programme.
Appointed successors to the positions of Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Reviewed the Groups financing agreements.
Led by the Chairman, internally evaluated its own performance and that of its Reviewed and approved process for Committees and individual Directors.
satisfaction of the awards under share performance schemes and block Considered and approved the relisting requirements.
appointments of Richard Akers and Tessa Bamford as Non-Executive Directors.
More information available on pages 59 Board and 69 Considered potential conflict of interests.
More information available on pages 56, 64 activity 2015 and 65 Risk management and internal controls Reviewed and approved the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems.
Reviewed the Companys appetite for Governance risk and approved the principal risks and Received updates on and assessed impact uncertainties affecting the business.
of changes to regulations such as the Received regular updates from the Audit UK Corporate Governance Code and Committee in respect of internal and Competition Law.
Reviewed internal share dealing control Undertook six-monthly health and processes.
Received updates from each of More information available on pages 40 to its Committees.
45, 59 and 69 Reviewed and approved the Groups sustainability framework.
Shareholder engagement Reviewed and approved principal policies such as anti-bribery, competition Reviewed shareholder feedback on half compliance etc.
and full year results and outcomes from Reviewed and approved matters reserved investor roadshows.
to it, its own terms of reference and those Received presentations from the Groups for the Chairman, Chief Executive and corporate brokers.
Met with shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Established a committee to review Reviewed the 2014 AGM proxy Non-Executive fees.
Reviewed and approved 2014 AGM Notice.
More information available on pages 60 and 61 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 How the Board fulfils its responsibilities Board Committees Group Management Committees The Risk Committee Audit Committee Responsible for monitoring the Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups effectiveness of the Groups financial internal control policies and procedures statements and its systems for internal for the identification, assessment control and risk management.
It also and reporting of risks and assessing monitors the independence, objectivity individual key risks on a rolling basis.
and tenure of the external auditor and considers whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced The Land Committee andunderstandable.
See page 66 for full report Reviews and approves all land acquisition proposals across the Group.
Depending on the value of the land acquisition or its complex nature Nomination Committee e. g. high rise apartments or joint venture arrangements, Board approval Responsible for monitoring the may alsobe required.
composition and balance of the Board Board to ensure that it has the correct skills, experience and diversity to successfully deliver the strategy of the Group.
The Treasury Operating Committee See page 62 for full report Reviews the Groups funding requirements and approval of new debt facilities.
Additional approval from the Chief Executive Officer Board may be required for certain types Remuneration Committee of funding and where the level of funding Responsible for designing and is over and above the levels delegated to implementing the Groups overall the Treasury Operating Committee.
remuneration strategy and policy and for setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of The Allotment Committee Senior Management directly below theBoard.
Responsible for approving the allotment Executive Committee See page 75 for full report of shares within dilution limits and the authority obtained from shareholders.
Supports the Group Chief Executive in carrying out the day-to-day management Safety, Health and Environmental of the activities of the Group.
Committee The Health and Safety Operations Committee Responsible for the stewardship of the safety, health and environmental Develops the health and safety strategy issues impacting the business for the Group: ensures that health and including, but not limited to, the Groups safety policies and procedures are compliance with the safety, health and adequately implemented and adhered environmental management system.
to throughout the Group: monitors the It also monitors any significant safety, effectiveness of the Groups health health and environmental risks and and safety systems and keeps abreast exposure to the business and the steps of changes in legislation surrounding taken to mitigate against these.
safety, health and the environment.
See page 73 for full report The Operations Committee Chief Operating Officer Responsible for managing operational performance.
Barratt Developments PLC 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness All Directors are provided with a rolling three-year schedule of Board performance evaluation proposed meeting dates.
Any Director who is unable to attend a In accordance with the Code, the Board is responsible for meeting is invited to provide their views to the Chairman ahead undertaking a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its of that meeting, having reviewed the agenda, briefing papers own performance and that of its Committees.
The Chairman is and management information.
Reasons for non-attendance are responsible for carrying out the evaluation of individual Director's recorded by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary performance.
An external consultant undertook the performance and either he or the Chairman will, thereafter, meet with any evaluation of the Board and its Committees for the 2012 13 absent Director to go through any action points which are of financial year.
Accordingly, an internal process was used for the relevance to that Director.
Formal minutes of each Board meeting 2014 15 evaluation.
This was led by the Chairman supported by are prepared, circulated and submitted for approval at the the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
facilitated evaluation will be undertaken in respect of the 2016 financial year.
Development In January of each year the Board meets for a full day to review Evaluation of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and develop the overall business strategy of the Group which In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Chairman includes presentations from Senior Management within the Group met with the Non-Executive Directors independently of the as well as external professionals.
The areas of focus for this Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the review are set out on page 54.
Senior Independent Director, met without the Chairman being A number of internal presentations and updates were provided present, to assess the performance of the Chairman and to Directors on matters impacting the business.
These included provided feedback from the process.
There were no issues of modern methods of construction: best practice on assessing any substance arising from the Non-Executive Directors only if a companys report is fair, balanced and understandable: review or from the review of the Chairmans performance and considering the approach to adopt when undertaking a longer there was unanimous support for him.
In addition, the Chairman term viability assessment in the context of the Companys met with each Director individually to discuss their contribution three-year plan: changes to the Code, model Code requirements to the Board and their performance during the year under in respect of share dealings by Directors: and other statutory review.
In addition to these specific meetings the Non-Executive and regulatory changes relevant to the business.
The Chairman Directors also meet without the Executive Directors being present regularly reviews training requirements of, and annually agrees either immediately prior to or immediately following committee development needs with, individual Directors.
meetings, of which they are all members.
Information and support The Chairman, with the assistance of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
Each Director is issued with an agenda, briefing papers and comprehensive operating and financial management reports for the period under review, generally five working days before any Board meeting.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary attends all Board and Committee meetings and all Directors have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent professional advice at the Companys expense to assist with the discharge of their responsibilities as Directors.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Induction John Allan induction On joining the Company, each new Director participates in a From May to November 2014, John Allan visited a total full and formal induction process.
The aim of the induction is of 20 sites throughout our six regions.
These varied from to assist the Director to familiarise himself with the business residential to mixed-use sites and represented each of the and the roles and responsibilities of the Board and members of Groups brands.
He also visited the Group Support Centre in Senior Management.
John Allan took part in this process which Leicestershire and spent time with each of the Group functions.
included health and safety training, site visits, meetings with all During his visits John spoke to as many teams as possible Board members and the Group General Counsel and Company ranging from divisional management to the sales teams.
Secretary, key external advisers and Senior and Operational He also received an overview of the region he was visiting and Management teams across the business.
He was also provided various detailed presentations on key developments and issues with an induction pack containing general and specific information such as customer service and strategic land.
relating to his role such as a schedule of meetings, copies of Board minutes and various policies and procedures, details of his duties as a Director of a listed plc and other obligations under the various regulations governing the Company.
As part of his induction, the new Chief Financial Officer Designate will undergo a tailored programme of presentations and meetings with management along with visits to key offices and sites throughout the business to gain a greater understanding of our products, processes and policies.
John Allan visiting the sales office at our Great Denham development in the South Midlands.
Barratt Developments PLC 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate governance report Effectiveness continued Areas included in the FY15 evaluation The performance of the Board and its principal Committees generally and individually: Board contribution to strategy and shareholder accountability: Risk management: Financial and operating reporting: Succession planning including diversity : Inter-relationships between the Board and its Committees and between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: and Board Committees and decision making.
Table 2 highlights the progress made during the year against the actions arising from the FY14 review and findings from the evaluation undertaken in respect of FY15.
Table 2 Board composition Succession planning Board meetings 2014 Findings Ensure satisfactory skills, experience and Continue to monitor and refresh succession Maintain the disciplines enshrined into the knowledge are maintained to help deliver the plans in line with the needs of the business, not Board processes such as streamlined papers Companys long term strategy and objectives.
just at Board level but at Senior Management and pre-allocation of sufficient time to consider level too.
Progress in 2015 Appointment of new Chief Executive and Chief Internal appointment of new Chief Executive.
Agendas allocate adequate time for items to be Financial Officer Designate announced on discussed.
Action list and timetable for review of strategic items and actions explored at the Board annual review considered at each meeting.
Standing agendas regularly reviewed to ensure items are spread out throughout the year and are not concentrated to one or two meetings.
Actions for 2016 Continue to monitor tenure of Non-Executive Increase focus on succession plans for Continue to monitor the level of information Directors and skills and experience required to Non-Executive Directors and most notably provided in briefing papers and the number deliver the Groups strategy and objectives.
for the Chairman of the Audit Committee of items to be discussed considered at each and the Senior Management population below meeting.
Review diversity throughout the business.
Assess the balance between operational and strategical issues to be considered at each meeting.
Nomination Audit Safety, Health and Remuneration Committee Committee Environmental Committee Committee 2015 Findings All Committees are operating effectively with members understanding what is expected of them to undertake and discharge their responsibilities aswell as their regulatory requirements.
Actions for 2016 Focus on succession planning of Assess, in conjunction with the Oversee embedding of a pro-active Assess the level of interaction Board and Committee members Nomination Committee and the Health, Safety and Environmental with remuneration consultants aswell as Senior Management.
Board, succession planning of plan implemented in FY15 and inrespect of governance issues.
Committee members to ensure delivery of our goal to maintain a Review fixed and variable that there is not an over reliance 5 Star Health and Safety Standard remuneration structures as on the relevant and recent award by the British Safety Council.
retention tools for key employees financial expertise of the in the context of the annual AuditCommittees Chair.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Accountability Internal controls and risk management Fair, balanced and understandable In accordance with principle C. 2.1. of the Code the Board regularly As part of its considerations, the Board reflected upon the reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal feedback shareholders provided in respect of our 2013 14 Annual controls, including those related to material financial, operational Report and Accounts including the Remuneration Policy.
It and compliance performance and the risk management systems established an appropriate timetable to provide adequate time see the Audit Committee report on pages 66 to 72.
A risk to review and discuss significant areas of the 2014 15 Annual framework has been developed for all business processes by Report and Accounts.
the internal audit function and approved by the Audit Committee.
The Board also assessed the tone, balance and language of the This framework forms the basis of the internal control audit documentation, being mindful of the requirements of the Code plan for the year ahead, which tests if controls are being applied and the need for consistency between the narrative section of the effectively in each operating division.
Material issues identified Report and the Financial Statements in arriving at its conclusion during internal audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed in respect of fair, balanced and understandable.
The Boards by the Executive Directors and by the Board on a quarterly basis.
formal statement on the Annual Report and Accounts being fair, Any necessary actions are immediately taken to remedy any balanced and understandable is contained within the Directors significant failings in the internal control system.
The Groups system of internal controls is designed to See page 69 for the process undertaken by the Audit Committee manage risks that may impede the achievement of the Groups to assist the Board in assessing if the Annual Report and business objectives rather than to eliminate those risks Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
The system of internal controls therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal controls does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential issues canbe identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
Further details can be found in the Risk management section ofthe Strategic Report pages 40 to 45.
The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups Financial Statements are reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
A review of the consolidated accounts and Financial Statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group areappropriately reflected.
The Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
Barratt Developments PLC 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate governance report continued Relations with shareholders 2014 Activity July August September October November December Post year end Full year results Full year results Bank of America Q1 interim Private client brokers trading update.
announcement Merrill Lynch management group meeting.
and analyst Building & statement and Annual Private client brokers Annual update on presentation.
major investors and UK and US roadshow Citi Building principal investor following the full Institutional broker Conference.
year results sales desk briefings.
Private client brokers sales desk briefings.
Top shareholders sales desk briefings.
and key investor roundtable chaired by CEO and senior management team.
Ad hoc meetings with existing and potential investors and sell-side analysts.
The Board recognises the importance of having an effective The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director relationship with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
meet regularly with investors and analysts in order to convey The Group has arrangements in place which enable it to an understanding of the market and the Groups operations communicate effectively with shareholders in respect of matters and objectives.
These meetings take place throughout the such as business strategy, governance, remuneration and any year but particularly after the annual and interim results senior management or Board changes.
It also conducts regular announcements.
In FY15, the Directors attended a total of institutional investor meetings after the release of the Annual 222 investor meetings 142 one to one meetings and 80 group and Interim results and following the publication of each interim meetings.
In addition they attended a number of conferences management statement.
and investor roadshows in the UK and the US.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend In order to ensure that all Directors are aware of, and have a clear meetings with major shareholders at the request of either party.
understanding of, the views of major shareholders, the Group The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with major Finance Director reports regularly to the Board on the Companys shareholders, as and when required, to gain an understanding of investor relations activities.
Additionally, the Companys brokers any issues and concerns.
presented an analysis of investor feedback to the July 2015 board meeting.
During the year, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consulted with major investors and the principal investor advisory Any announcement published via the Regulatory Information groups on the proposed remuneration outcomes for FY15 and Service including the interim and annual reports, interim the Groups approach to remuneration, in accordance with the management statements and trading updates and Company remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM, for FY16.
announcements can be found on the Companys website at www.
All Directors, including the Chairmen of the Committees, attend the AGM and are available to answer shareholder questions.
The notice of each AGM and related papers are circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 Activity January February March April May June Post half year end Half year results Institutional broker Private client Q3 trading update.
announcement and sales desk briefings.
European Institutional broker analyst presentation.
Institutional broker sales desk briefings.
UK roadshow UBS UK following the half Housing Seminar.
year results Investor and announcement.
sell-side analyst Institutional broker perception studies.
Major shareholders In accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTRs, all notifications received by the Company are published on the Companys website www.
co. uk and via a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 30 June 2015, the persons set out in Table 3 have notified the Company, pursuant to DTR 5.1, of their interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital.
Table 3 Notifiable Interests Number of % of total issued share 1 Name voting rights capital when notified Nature of holding Capital Research and Management Company 109,303,356 11.019 Indirect FMR LLC 34,579,199 8.24 Indirect Standard Life Investments Ltd 47,711,714 4.94 Direct & Indirect 1 R epresents the number of voting rights last notified to the Company by the respective shareholder in accordance with DTR 5.1.
Between 1 July 2015 and 8 September 2015 the following changes in respect of interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital have been notified to the Company: Number of % of total issued 1 1 Name voting rights share capital Nature of holding Capital Research and Management Company 109,053,397 10.955 Indirect 1 Based on the Total Voting Rights as at the relevant notification dates.
The Total Voting Rights of the Company as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, as announced on 1 September 2015, are995,862,989.
On behalf of the Board Tom Keevil Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 8 September 2015
