52 Chairmans address Good governance supporting business change.
I am delighted that our established governanceframework has supported both the integration of our new Chief Executive Officer and the development of our new strategy.
Iain Ferguson Chairman Our goal is to be at the forefront of best What good governance Included in this report: practice in corporate governance and meansto us we consistently challenge ourselves 61 Leadership 2015 has been a year of significant to achieve this.
Our governance Key details on our board and senior change for Berendsen at board management team framework allows for the continued level.
This was the result of both the monitoring, review, development Our governance framework and how appointment of James Drummond, and implementation of the policies, it supports the development of good as our new Chief Executive Officer to governance practices procedures and culture that support our replace Peter Ventress, and the ongoing high governance standards.
Our boards key achievements during 2015 review of our strategy which led to the announcement of our new strategic Board achievements in 2015 63 Effectiveness approach in November.
Our ability to deal with change of this magnitude is Our three-year approach to performance Strategic review evaluations and the outcome of the boards due in no small part to the governance I reported last year that the board had 2014 and 2015 evaluations structures which have been developed commenced a strategy refresh process over the years to support the effective Our nomination committees report on and that this would continue during 2015. its key activities in the year including the operation of the board and the business The timetable was obviously impacted appointment of our new CEO as a whole.
by the change of our Chief Executive Officer, and the process was placed on I have previously reported to you that 66 Relations with shareholders hold until James took up the role of Chief corporate governance at Berendsen An overview of our shareholder engagement Executive Officer.
We were delighted is treated as a core and vital discipline activities during the year including: to be able to conclude a thorough complementing our desire to continually a Remuneration policy consultation review of our strategy during the year, improve upon the success of the the result of which was presented to group on behalf of our shareholders.
a Shareholder meetings investors at a Capital Markets Day held This remains the case.
The governance a Details of our 2016 AGM on 19 November 2015. framework described in this report is well established, and our Executive Board 71 Accountability continues to ensure that our approach Our audit committees report on its key is effectively implemented across the activities during the year including: whole business.
I am pleased to report a Monitoring the effectiveness of our risk that James shares the boards longmanagement and internal control systems held view of the importance of strong a Approving the viability statement process governance systems, and the board as a whole continues to believe that effective a Conducting a review of the effectiveness of governance is achieved through the external auditor leadership and collaboration, resulting in consistently focused and sensible business decisions.
If you would like to discuss any aspect of our groups governance with me, please feel free to email me at chairman@berendsen.
eu Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
