berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 governAnce Audit Committee Report The Board of Directors presents its Audit statements issued during the year.
the period is included in note 18 to the Committee Report for the year ended 30 The Committees review incorporated financial statements.
April 2015 which has been prepared on the consideration of the appropriateness of the recommendation of the Audit Committee relevant accounting policies and financial R evenue recognition the Committee.
The Committee recognises that the Groups accounting policy for The report has been prepared in The Committees review of the Annual revenue recognition, namely that accordance with the requirements of the Report concentrated on whether, properties are treated as sold and UK Corporate Governance Code, Schedule taken as a whole, it was fair, balanced profits are recognised when contracts 8 of the Large & Medium-Sized Companies and understandable and provided the are exchanged and building work is and Groups Accounts and Reports information necessary for users of the physically complete, involves an element Regulations 2008, and the Listing Rules of Annual Report to assess the Groups of judgement in determining the point the Financial Conduct Authority.
at which building work is physically Details of the composition, experience and The views of the Groups auditor, which complete.
The Committee reviewed the the number of meetings of the Committee was in attendance at each meeting of the quantum of properties not yet legally are reported on page 61 of the Corporate Committee during the year, were taken completed at each balance sheet date in Governance Report.
into account in reaching its conclusions on conjunction with the review undertaken these matters.
by the Groups external auditor and Role and responsibilities of the Audit concluded that the judgements were committee The significant matters considered by the appropriate.
The Committee has formal Terms of Committee in 2015 included: Reference which set out its role and the Carrying value of inventories and Shar e-based payments authority delegated to it by the Board.
The margin recognition The Committee recognises that key responsibilities of the Committee are Inventories comprise land not under accounting for share-based payments as follows: development, work in progress and represents a complex accounting area Financial Reporting completed units, which are held in and particularly so in a year in which Monitoring the integrity of the financial the balance sheet at the lower of there was a modification in the method reporting of the Company and reviewing cost and net realisable value.
The Committee reviewed significant financial reporting issues and demands a periodic assessment by the the impact of this modification in accounting policies: management team of each of Berkeleys conjunction with the external auditors sites which is sensitive to assumptions assessment and concluded that the Internal Control and Internal Audit in terms of future sales prices and judgement and application were Reviewing the adequacy and construction costs and recognises the appropriate.
effectiveness of the Groups internal inherently cyclical nature of the property control and risk management systems market and the risks of delivery.
These C ompliance with laws and regulations and monitoring the effectiveness of the assumptions are also relevant to the The Committee recognises that the Groups internal audit function: and determination of profit recognised on Company is subject to laws and properties sold.
The conclusions of this regulations across a number of areas External Audit assessment were reported by exception including, but not limited to, anti-bribery, Overseeing the relationship with the to the Committee in a financial overview anti-money laundering and sanctions external auditor, including appointment, paper prior to release of the Groups checking.
The Committee considered removal and fees, and ensuring the annual and interim results.
the Groups approach to reviewing and auditors independence and the updating its policies with respect to effectiveness of the audit process.
Provisions compliance with laws and regulations.
The Committee recognises that In performing this review, it considered This report considers each of these accounting for provisions relies on relevant legal matters.
The Committee responsibilities in turn, and how the management judgement in estimating was satisfied that there were no material Committee has discharged them during the quantum and timing of outflows of instances of non-compliance.
resources to settle any associated legal or constructive obligations.
The Group Other matters considered by the Financial reporting holds provisions for post-completion Committee included managements At each of the Audit Committee meetings, development obligations, onerous lease, assessment of the going concern status of the Group Managing Director and or estate liabilities and other litigation.
The the Group at the balance sheet date.
The the Group Finance Director presented, basis for determining these provisions Committee concurred with managements and the Committee debated, the results was presented to the Committee for adopted approach on all of these matters.
and business plan of the Group and any their consideration.
The Committee significant financial reporting judgements Since the year end, the Committee has reviewed the relevant papers and relevant to this.
completed its review of the 2015 Annual discussed the assumptions underlying Report and has confirmed to the Board The Committee reviewed, prior to their this determination with management that it considers it to be fair, balanced and publication, the financial disclosures in and the Groups external auditor and understandable.
the Groups Annual Report and Accounts, concluded that it was satisfied that the Preliminary Announcement, Interim Report assumptions adopted were appropriate.
and the contents of interim management A table of movements in provisions over 64 01 BERKAR15 CorpGovAud 60-65. indd 64 14 07 2015 10:06 Strategic report governance FinancialS berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 governAnce Internal control and internal audit Approach at each meeting.
There is open dialogue The Committee undertook its annual KPMG presented its audit strategy to the between KPMG and the Companys senior review of the Groups Internal Control Audit Committee meeting during the finance team to monitor any proposed new Framework during the year.
The strategy document identified its instructions.
focused on the system of risk management assessment of the key risks of the business The Committee has concluded that and internal control in place which is for the purpose of the audit, the scope of it is comfortable that the auditors are explained in more detail on page 62 of their work and updated the Committee on independent.
the Corporate Governance Report, and regulatory changes for the current year.
covered: Appointment of KPMG KPMG reported to the Committee at the On completion of the audit, the the key risks facing the Group: year end, prior to the public announcement Committee reviewed the performance and of the Companys results, in which it set the key elements of the Groups control effectiveness of KPMG with feedback from out its assessment of the Companys processes to mitigate these risks: executive management.
The Committee judgements and estimates in respect of has resolved to propose KPMGs the operations and effectiveness of these risks and any other findings arising appointment at the 2015 Annual General internal audit.
A paper was also presented to the The external auditors have open recourse The Committee remains mindful of Committee which summarised the Groups to the Non-executive Directors should evolving best practice under the UK consideration, controls and monitoring of they consider it necessary.
There is private Corporate Governance Code 2012, and fraud risk across its activities.
dialogue between the Chairman of the will monitor the proposals of the Financial Audit Committee and the external auditors The Committee also considered any Reporting Council and the European Union prior to each Audit Committee meeting internal control recommendations in determining its future approach to reand, after each meeting, the opportunity raised by the Groups auditors during tendering the external audit appointment.
for the Committee to meet with the the course of the external audit and the external auditors without the Executive companys response to dealing with such Directors and management present.
A Myers Independence of the external auditors Chairman, audit committee A report summarising the recent activities As part of its audit strategy presentation, 30 June 2015 of the Internal Audit function within and through the audit tender process, Berkeley was presented to each of the KPMG identified the safeguards in Committee meetings during the year.
place within its internal processes and These reports covered: procedures to protect, in respect of its own a summary of the key findings arising role, the independence of its audit.
from the most recent formal internal The Committee has a policy on the use of audits undertaken: the auditors for non-audit services in order management responses to any control to safeguard auditor independence and weaknesses identified, the closure of any the ratio of audit fees including the fees open items and any recurring themes: for the Interim Review to non-audit fees should be no greater than 1:1.
The ratio for the outcome of other operational review the year ended 30 April 2015 was within work undertaken by the internal audit the limits of this ratio.
Audit and non-audit function: fee disclosures are set out in Note 5 of the the internal audit plan for the coming Consolidated Financial Statements.
year, for debate with and the approval of Any departure from this ratio will only the Committee.
be as a consequence of transactional The Committee was satisfied that the work, where the Committee considers it scope, extent and effectiveness of the is right for the auditors to undertake such Internal Audit function are appropriate for work where the reasons for doing so are the Group.
compelling, such as where: External audit i it is proprietary to them: Following a competitive tender ii they have pre-existing knowledge and process for the audit of the Company experience that precludes the use of and its subsidiaries undertaken in the alternative firms: year ended 30 April 2014, KPMG LLP KPMG was identified to replace iii the nature of the transaction is such  LLP as the that the Groups auditors are the only Companys auditor and consequently practical solution.
was appointed to fill a casual vacancy in Non-audit work carried out by all accordance with the Companies Act 2006. accounting firms, including the auditors, is The appointment of KPMG was approved formally reported to the Audit Committee at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
