berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 governAnce Corporate Governance Report The Company is committed to maintaining Composition, Diversity and Independence to support the division of responsibility a high standard of corporate governance At the date of this report the Board between them.
The Group Chairman is in respect of leadership, effectiveness, comprises thirteen Directors: the Chairman, responsible for the effective conduct of accountability, remuneration and five Executive Directors and seven the Board and shareholder meetings and relationships with our shareholders as independent Non-executive Directors.
The for ensuring that each Director contributes identified by the UK Corporate Governance biographies of these directors are set out to effective decision-making.
In the year to 30 on pages 58 and 59.
Managing Director has day-to-day April 2015, the revised principles and executive responsibility for the running The Board has evolved over recent years to provisions of the Code published In of the Groups businesses.
His role is to put in place the succession planning that September 2012 by the Financial Reporting develop and deliver the strategy to enable all successful organisations require and Council FRC applied to the Company.
The the Group to meet its objectives.
the composition of the Board continues to provisions of the UK Corporate Governance be reviewed on a regular basis to ensure Meetings Code 2014 will apply to the Company that an appropriate balance of skills is The Board met five times during 2014 15 with effect from 1 May 2015 and so are not maintained.
The Board has chosen not and there were no absences.
to set specific representation targets for In addition to the above formal meetings This section, including the Audit Committee women at Board level at this time.
However, of the whole Board, the Non-executive Report and the Directors Remuneration it recognises that the benefits of diversity, Directors meet with the Group Chairman.
Report, details how the Company has including gender diversity, will continue to The Group Managing Director and Group applied the principles and provisions of be an active consideration when further Finance Director are invited to attend these the Code.
The Companys business model changes to the Boards composition are meetings in part, to provide an update on is explained in the Strategic Report.
the business activities of the Group.
The the Boards view that it has been fully The Board considers that all of the current Non-executive Directors meet at least compliant with the Code throughout the Non-executive Directors were independent annually without the Group Chairman 2014 15 financial year.
A copy of the Code throughout the year.
At the Annual General present, chaired by the Senior Independent is available on the Financial Reporting Meeting on 1 September 2014, David Director.
uk Howell stepped down after ten years on Board papers and agendas are sent out The Board the Board.
The Non-executive Directors, in the week prior to each meeting, thus Role led by the Senior Independent Director Sir allowing sufficient time for detailed review The Board has a collective responsibility John Armitt, have the skills, experience, and consideration of the documents for promoting the long term success of the independence and knowledge of the beforehand.
In addition, the Board is Company in a safe and sustainable manner Company to enable them to discharge supplied with comprehensive management in order to create shareholder value.
The their respective duties and responsibilities information on a regular basis.
Board provides leadership and sets the effectively.
Election and re-election of Directors During the year, the Company dismissed The Articles of Association of the Company Its duties are set out in a formal schedule its previous Finance Director, Mr Nicolas include the requirement for Directors to of matters specifically reserved for decision Simpkin, who left the Board on 8 submit themselves to shareholders for by the Board, which include: September 2014 and is currently on full re-election every three years.
In addition, paid garden leave until 23 September 2015.
Overall management of the Group, its all Directors are subject to election by strategy and long-term objectives: Richard Stearn was appointed as an shareholders at the first opportunity Executive Director, and re-joined the after their appointment and thereafter at Approval of corporate plans: Company on 13 April 2015 in the role of intervals of no more than three years.
Approval of all material corporate Group Finance Director, having previously However, in accordance with the transactions: held the position of Group Financial requirements of the Code, all Directors Controller from 2002 to 2011.
In the Changes to the Groups capital structure: offer themselves for re-election at the intervening period between the departure Annual General Meeting on 8 September Approval of the Groups treasury policy: of Nicolas Simpkin and the appointment 2015. of Richard Stearn, the financial function of Approval of the Groups interim and Berkeley was managed by Rob Perrins, the Induction and development annual results, dividend policy and Group Managing Director and previously On appointment, Non-executive Directors shareholder distributions: the Group Finance Director, supported by are provided with a detailed induction Reviewing the Groups risks and system Ben Marks, the Group Financial Controller.
This covers an overview of of internal control: the Groups operations and its policies, The Group Executive Directors do not hold corporate responsibility and corporate Changes to the Board and other senior any Non-executive Director appointments affairs issues, legal matters, and the executive roles: or commitments required to be disclosed opportunity to meet with Directors and key under the Code.
Corporate Governance arrangements staff and to visit the Groups sites.
and the Board evaluation: and Chairman and Managing Director No training needs were identified this year, The roles of Group Chairman and Group Approval of policies in key areas although ongoing training is available to Managing Director are separately held and including Sustainability, Health & Safety all Directors to meet their individual needs.
there are clear written guidelines and Business Ethics.
Board members also receive guidance 60 01 BERKAR15 CorpGovAud 60-65. indd 60 14 07 2015 10:06 Strategic report governance FinancialS berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 governAnce on regulatory matters and the corporate and to impose such limits or conditions the Groups internal audit function and governance framework that the Group as it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a overseeing the relationship with the operates under.
conflict of interest can only be made by external auditor.
The Audit Committee non-conflicted Directors those who have comprises four independent Non-executive Members of the Audit and Remuneration no interest in the matter being considered Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Committees received briefings from and in making such a decision the Directors Andy Myers and the other members at 30 our auditors and remuneration advisers must act in a way they consider in good April 2015 were Alison Nimmo, Glyn Barker respectively to ensure they remain up faith will be most likely to promote the and Veronica Wadley.
to date with current regulations and Companys success.
Andy Myers and Glyn Barker are all The Company has established a procedure considered to have recent and relevant All Directors have access to advice from whereby actual and potential conflicts of experience.
Andy Myers is qualified as the Company Secretary and independent interest of current and proposed roles to be a chartered accountant and is currently professional advisers, at the Companys undertaken by Directors of the Board with Chief Financial Officer at McLaren Group expense, where specific expertise is other organisations are regularly reviewed Limited and Glyn Barker is also qualified as required in the course of their duties.
in respect of both the nature of those a chartered accountant, having previously Board evaluation roles, and their time commitment, and for held a number of senior posts within PwC The Code requires that the Board proper authorisation to be sought prior to including Managing Partner and Head of undertakes an annual evaluation of its own the appointment of any new director.
performance and that of its committees Board consider these procedures to be The Committee met formally on three and individual directors with an externally working effectively.
occasions during the year to 30 April 2015 facilitated evaluation conducted at least Insurance with no absences, with the exception of every three years.
The Board evaluation The Company had in place at 30 April one meeting in March 2015 from which for 2015 was, in accordance with Code 2015 an appropriate policy which insures Veronica Wadley was absent.
6.2, externally facilitated, Directors against certain liabilities, including carried out by Clare Howard Consultancies, An explanation of the role and activities legal costs, which they may incur in who have no other connection with the of the Audit committee during the year is carrying out their duties.
The Board evaluation covered: contained in the Audit Committee report place.
Strategic matters Board committees Remuneration committee Board structure, committees and their The Board has delegated certain matters The Remuneration Committee is operation to individual Executives and to the responsible for determining the Companys specific committees of the Board: audit, Succession planning policy for Executive remuneration and remuneration and nomination.
The main the precise terms of employment and Induction and development three Board Committees operate within remuneration of the Executive Directors.
clearly defined Terms of Reference Assessment of the performance of pursuant to the provisions of the Code.
The At 30 April 2015, the Committee comprised individual committees and the Chairman Terms of Reference can be downloaded Glyn Barker, Sir John Armitt and Andy Shareholder communication from the section dealing with Investor Myers who are independent Non-executive Relations on the Berkeley website www.
The Committee was chaired by The unanimous outcome of the review was berkeleygroup.
Copies are also Glyn Barker.
that the Board works very well and that available to shareholders on application to all the Directors are passionate about the The Committee met formally on three the Company Secretary.
business, and that they enjoy their role on occasions during the year to April 2015 the Board.
The responsibilities of the key Board with no absences.
The Board has a pivotal role in preserving No Director is involved in deciding his the organisations culture and ultimately Executive committee or her remuneration.
In line with all successful The Executive Committee meets monthly Directors decide the remuneration of organisations, succession planning is seen and reviews the financial and operating the Non-executive Directors and the as a key focus for the Company and the performance of all Group divisions and Committee takes into consideration the Board continues to evolve to address this companies.
The Group Managing Director, recommendations of the Group Managing issue.
The autonomous structure of the Rob Perrins, chairs this Committee and Director and Group Finance Director Group also provides strength in depth other members comprise, Tony Pidgley, regarding the remuneration of their which further mitigates this risk.
Richard Stearn, Karl Whiteman, Sean Executive colleagues.
Ellis and Greg Fry alongside other senior An action plan has been agreed by the The principles and details of Directors management.
Board to address the recommendations remuneration are contained in the made from the review.
Audit committee Directors Remuneration Report on pages The Audit Committee is responsible for 66 to 83.
Conflicts of interset monitoring and reviewing the financial In accordance with the Companies Nomination committee reporting and accounting policies of Act 2006, the Companys Articles of The Nomination Committee ensures the Company, reviewing the adequacy Association allow the Board to authorise that the membership and composition of internal controls and the activities of potential conflicts of interest that may arise of the Board, including the balance of 61 01 BERKAR15 CorpGovAud 60-65. indd 61 14 07 2015 10:06 berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 governAnce Corporate Governance Report continued skills, is appropriate, as well as giving full divisional boards on a monthly basis, and budgets are a fundamental element of the consideration to succession planning on a comprehensive information is prepared for Companys financial reporting cycle.
such meetings on a standardised basis to Policies and procedures cover all aspects of the business.
Formal The Committee is chaired by the Policies and procedures, including reporting lines and delegated levels of Group Chairman, Tony Pidgley, and the operating and financial controls, are authority exist within this structure and the Independent Non-executive members at detailed in policies and procedures review of risk and performance occurs at 30 April 2015 were Sir John Armitt and manuals that are refreshed and improved multiple levels throughout the operating Veronica Wadley.
Training to staff is given companies, divisions and at Group.
The Committee met formally on two Risk assessment occasions during the year to 30 April 2015 Central functions Risk reporting is embedded within ongoing with no absences.
Strong central functions, including Legal, management reporting throughout Health & Safety and Company Secretarial, During the year, the activities of the the Group.
At operating company and provide support and consistency to the Committee included considering and divisional level, Board meeting agendas rest of the Group.
In addition, the principal making recommendations to the Board and packs are structured around the key treasury-related risks, decisions and control regarding the membership of the Board risks facing the Group.
These risks include processes are managed by the Group committees and reviewing succession health and safety, sales, production build Finance function, under the direction of the plans for the Executive team.
cost and programme, land and planning, Group Finance Director.
economic, regulatory and site specific The process for identifying and matters.
Internal audit recommending new appointments Internal auditors are in place at divisional includes a combination of discussions In addition, there is a formalised process and Group level to provide assurance and consultations, in addition to formal whereby each division produces quarterly on the operation of the Groups control interviews, utilising the services of risks and control reports that identify framework.
independent recruitment specialists, as significant risks, the potential impact and appropriate.
the actions being taken to mitigate the Whistleblowing risks.
These risk reports are reviewed and The Group has a whistleblowing policy Key risks and internal control updated regularly.
which has been communicated to all The Board acknowledges that it has overall staff, where Directors, management, staff responsibility for ensuring that the Groups A Group Risk Management Report is and external stakeholders can report in system of internal control comply with presented at each Group Main Board confidence any concerns they may have of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 Meeting, setting out the current factors malpractice, financial irregularity, breaches and for reviewing its effectiveness, at least affecting the risk profile of the Group, of any Group procedures, or other matters.
the mitigation of these risks and the key The policy is available to view on the changes to this risk profile since the last Internal control procedures are designed Groups website.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk Bribery act of failure to achieve business objectives, Financial reporting The Board has responsibility for complying and can only provide reasonable and A comprehensive budgeting and real-time with the requirements of the Bribery Act not absolute assurance against material forecasting system, covering both profit 2010 and is charged with overseeing the misstatement or loss.
and cash, operates within the Group.
This development and implementation of enables executive management to view There are ongoing processes and the Groups policies and procedures and key financial and operating data on a daily procedures for identifying, evaluating and monitoring ongoing compliance.
On a weekly and monthly basis managing the significant risks faced by the more formal reporting up to the Group Relations with shareholders Group.
These processes and procedures Executives is prepared.
The results of all The Company encourages active were in place from the start of the financial operating units are reported monthly and dialogue with its current and prospective year to the date on which the 2015 Annual compared to budget and forecast.
shareholders through ongoing meetings Report and Accounts were approved and with institutional investors.
Major accord with the Turnbull guidance issued There is a consolidation process in place shareholders have the opportunity to in 2005. which ensures that there is an audit trail meet all Directors after the Annual General between the Groups financial reporting The processes are regularly reviewed by Meeting in addition to individual meetings system and the Groups statutory financial the Board and include an annual review with the Company.
by the Directors of the operation and Shareholders are also kept up to date effectiveness of the system of internal Investment and contracting controls with the Companys activities through the control as part of its year end procedures.
The Group has clearly defined guidelines Annual and Interim Reports and Interim The key features of the system of internal for the purchase and sale of land within Management Statements.
In addition, the control include: the Group, which include detailed corporate website gives information on the environmental, planning and financial Clear organisational structure Group and latest news, including regulatory appraisal and are subject to executive The Group operates through autonomous announcements.
Rigorous procedures are also divisions and operating companies, each after the announcement of the preliminary followed for the selection of consultants with its own board.
Operating company and interim results are also available on the and contractors.
The review and boards meet on a weekly basis and website.
monitoring of all build programmes and 62 01 BERKAR15 CorpGovAud 60-65. indd 62 14 07 2015 10:06 Strategic report governance FinancialS berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 governAnce The Board is kept informed of the views of the shareholders through periodic reports from the Companys broker UBS.
Additionally, the Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend the biannual analyst presentations.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns where contact through the normal channels has failed or when such contact is inappropriate.
Annual General Meeting All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General Meeting AGM where the Group Chairman, the Group Managing Director and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions and will also be available for discussions with shareholders both prior to and after the meeting.
In accordance with the Code, the Company arranges for the Annual Report and Accounts and related papers to be posted to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 working days for consideration prior to the AGM.
The Company complies with the provisions of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, which, including abstentions, are declared at the AGM after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and are announced to the Stock Exchange shortly after the close of the meeting.
The Company also complies with the requirements of the Code with the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Chairmen of the Board Committees.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Non-executive Directors, which set out their expected time commitment, in addition to the service contracts for the Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
