Corporate governance statement Chairmans message Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to introduce the Groups corporate governance report on behalf of our Board of Directors.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance to enhance performance underpinned by our business model.
We have sought to manage the affairs of the Group not by merely following regimented rules, but by promoting a culture of open and transparent discussion, constructive challenge and support in the Board and across the Group.
Effective governance starts at the top, with clear roles, responsibilities and lines of reporting.
Directors have to operate within applicable laws and regulations, which include corporate governance rules.
In addition, directors have to operate within the mandate given to them by shareholders, for example, in the Companys Articles of Association.
On a more practical level the directors operate under agreed Board procedures such as the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, the role and descriptions of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, and service contracts and appointment letters.
The main Group-wide governance documents are our Core Values and the Code of Conduct, which set out the values and standards that we expect of our employees.
These documents, together with our policies, govern how we conduct our business and set the standards that drive performance.
Compliance training helps to enforce this.
Board oversight, reviews and audits form part of the monitoring and supervision process.
The important governance developments at Bodycote over the last year are detailed in the governance reporting section below.
It is of great importance to me, as Chairman, to ensure that the Board has the right composition.
This means having the right balance of skills and experience to contribute, and where appropriate challenge, decision making and ensuring that all directors have a good knowledge of the Group and the context in which it operates.
I encourage all shareholders to attend the AGM, which will be held at our Macclesfield head office on 27 May 2016.
This event provides an excellent opportunity to meet the executive and independent non-executive directors.
A. M. Thomson Chairman Board performance 2015 key actions 2015 achievements Priorities for 2016 Implement actions from the 2015 Accelerated growth from Specialist Undertake 2016 strategy review strategy review Technologies and enhanced business processes Undertake 2015 external Board evaluation All recommendations made at the 2012 Process recommendations from the external evaluation have been addressed 2015 external Board evaluation Appointment of a new Audit Committee I.
B. Duncan was appointed Audit Continued focus on management Chairman and Senior Independent Committee Chairman and R. Rajagopal development and succession planning Director Senior Independent Director Continued emphasis on external Board The Board visited plants in the UK and Use Board visits to meet the Czech and training and development Poland during the year and developed Turkish teams to promote understanding the directors understanding of these of markets and the opportunities they businesses and the markets they serve offer Continued review of the risk register, During the year the Board reviewed the The Board will continue to review cyber including major programme risks different elements of the Groups risk security protection, the management management framework and how it of risk in major programmes and crisis discharged its responsibilities management Governance reporting Board diversity Bodycote is a global business with operations in 24 countries and diversity is an integral part of how we do business.
The Nomination Committee considers diversity when making appointments to the Board, taking into account relevant skills, experience, knowledge, personality, ethnicity and gender.
Our prime responsibility, however, is the strength of the Board and our overriding aim in any new appointment must always be to select the best candidate.
We have made progress in addressing the issue of Board gender and diversity by appointing E. Lindqvist to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2012.
B. Duncan as a Non-Executive Director on 17 November 2014 as part of Board refreshment.
We will further address this issue when we discuss Board succession planning in the coming year.
The Board is kept deliberately small and currently comprises two executive directors, three non-executive directors and a non-executive chairman.
We believe it is difficult to set targets or timescales for the percentage of women, or any other group, on our Board and do not propose to do so.
38 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Female representation on our Board is currently 17% 2014: 14% and at manager level it is 24% 2014: 27%.
Females represent 18% 2014: 17% of our total workforce.
We will increase female representation on the Board if appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
The Corporate responsibility and sustainability report contains further details regarding the male and female representation within the Group, including Board representation.
Board evaluation The Board has undertaken its second external Board Evaluation during 2015.
Following a review of proposals from external facilitators, the Board appointed ICSA Board Evaluation to facilitate a review of its performance.
The facilitator Mr G. A. G. Shepheard who is independent of the Group, met with each director on an individual basis to obtain their views on seven aspects of the Boards performance and to ascertain whether their needs and expectations were being met.
The evaluator ensured that pre-defined constituent elements of each topic were covered in the discussions and a qualitative score was assigned by each director.
The seven topics were as follows: Board responsibilities Oversight Board meetings Support for the Board Board composition Working together Outcome and achievements The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board at its meeting in October 2015 which Mr Shepheard attended and the directors discussed the recommendations which are now in the process of being implemented.
Additional emphasis will be placed on succession planning and certain operational matters.
The approach to Board Evaluation included relevant questions to cover the activities of each Board committee.
The Board is considered to be functional and working well.
Arising from the exercise, the Board has concluded that its focus should remain on divisional growth strategies, technology development, risk and sustainability as well as continued training.
The overall conclusion is that the Board is performing well and high governance standards have been adopted.
It is apparent that the Executive is being strongly challenged by the Board when appropriate.
As in previous years, the Chairman has assessed the performance of each Board member by conducting individual interviews and we can confirm that all directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Executive Directors Messrs S. C. Harris and D. F. Landless were also appraised in February 2016.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the directors carried out an evaluation of the Chairmans performance in September 2015.
The Board is satisfied with the Chairmans commitment and performance.
Training All new directors are subject to a tailored induction programme covering a diverse range of topics including trading, investor relations, organisational and legal matters.
The Board receives training via ad hoc presentations and papers from advisers and the Group Company Secretary.
External periodic training on important topics takes place through the Deloitte Academy and during the year the directors received training on financial reporting developments and in particular on the viability statement.
Succession planning Succession planning ensures that appropriate senior executive leadership resources are in place to achieve Bodycotes strategic objectives.
The plans are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
The Board further develops its knowledge and gains greater visibility of executive talent and management succession by visiting the Groups sites and meeting with key talent and senior executives.
Board refreshment will continue over the coming years.
Non-executive tenure in years 8 7 3 1 E. Lindqvist R. Rajagopal A. M. Thomson I.
B. Duncan 39 Stock code: BOY www.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate governance statement continued Individual roles of the Board Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director operate leadership and governance of overall responsibility and leadership of the maintains strong financial management the Board and chairs the Nomination Group performance and implements effective financial Committee controls stewardship of Group assets Board effectiveness provides financial and commercial decision plans and executes objectives leadership, vision and support ensures members receive accurate, and strategies timely and clear information on Board ensures the appropriateness of risk maintains a close working relationship issues management systems with the Chairman, ensuring effective ensures, together with the Group dialogue with investors and stakeholders oversees all aspects of accounting Company Secretary, comprehensive finance operations including accounting ensures the leadership and development induction of new directors policies and integrity of financial data and frameworks are developed to generate a external financial reporting sets Board agenda, style and tone of positive pipeline for future opportunities Board discussions for the Group responsible for corporate finance functions, financial planning and budget effective communication with has overall responsibility for the Groups management shareholders sustainability performance supports and advises the senior communicates the vision and values of management team the Group leads the development of investor manages the senior management team relations strategy and communications Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Group Company Secretary acts as a sounding board for the provide constructive challenge secretary to the Board and its Chairman committees help develop strategy serves as an intermediary for other ensures efficient information flows ensure financial controls and systems directors within the Board and its committees and of risk management are robust and between senior management and nonis available to meet shareholders if they defensible executive directors have concerns which they have not determine appropriate levels of been able to resolve through the normal facilitates induction of new directors and remuneration for the executive directors channels assists with training and development monitor reporting of performance needs as required conducts an annual review of the scrutinise performance of management performance of the Chairman and regularly updates the Board on corporate convenes a meeting of the non-executive are available to meet with major governance matters, legislative changes directors to discuss the same shareholders and regulatory regimes affecting the Group ensures compliance with Board procedures co-ordinates external Board evaluation and conducts internal Board evaluation 40 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Core values The Board acknowledges its responsibility for determining and maintaining the Groups values and ensures these are reflected in the business practices.
This is monitored by the Board at regular intervals.
Further details are available on page 31.
Pre-emption rights In line with best practice provisions in the Pre-emption Group Statement of Principles, the Board confirms that it does not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Group on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period.
Compliance reporting In respect of the financial year 2015, Bodycotes obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is to prepare a corporate governance statement with reference to the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the FRC in September 2014 the Code.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2015, Bodycote has complied with the provisions of the Code with the exception of provision E1.1.
As in previous years, the Board has taken the view that generally it is the responsibility of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director to manage relationships with institutional investors.
The Chairman also meets institutional investors to discuss overall strategy, governance and any concerns that shareholders may have.
Only where these more usual channels of communication have failed would the Board expect the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID or other non-executive directors to become involved, notwithstanding that the Code specifies attendance of the SID at meetings with major shareholders.
The SID has contacted major shareholders and offered to facilitate meetings with them should they have any concerns they wish to discuss.
Regular feedback from the Groups advisers on investor meetings and results presentations is circulated to all directors.
During the year the Chairman met with shareholders to discuss governance matters.
Apart from this distinct area, Bodycote was in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout 2015.
Operation of the Code Taken together with the Report of the Audit Committee, the Report of the Nomination Committee and the Board report on remuneration presented on pages 48 to 73, this statement explains how Bodycote has applied the principles of good corporate governance as set out in the Code.
Leadership The Board is responsible to shareholders for good corporate governance, setting the Groups strategic objectives, values and standards, and ensuring the necessary resources are in place to achieve the objectives.
The Board met on eight occasions during 2015, including a specific meeting to review and update the Groups long-term strategy.
The Board of Directors comprises six members, of whom four are non-executive directors and two are executive directors, led by the Groups part-time Non-Executive Chairman, A. M. Thomson, who also chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Group Chief Executive is S. C. Harris and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is R. Rajagopal.
B. Duncan chairs the Audit Committee and E. Lindqvist is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Brief biographical details of all directors are given on pages 36 and 37.
During the year the Board visited a number of UK and overseas facilities, including sites in the UK and Poland.
Such events involved meetings with local management and the unit workforce to better understand technical and operational performance in countries where Bodycote has a significant presence.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate governance statement continued Matters reserved for the Board were reviewed during the year and updated where required.
Certain defined powers and issues reserved for the Board to decide are, inter alia: Strategy: Approval of financial statements and circulars: Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: Annual budgets: Directors appointments, service agreements, remuneration and succession planning: Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and environment, donations: Committees terms of reference: Board and committee chairmen and membership: Investments: Equity and bank financing: Internal control and risk management: Corporate governance: Key external and internal appointments: and Employee share incentives and pension arrangements.
In advance of Board meetings, directors are supplied with up-to-date information regarding the trading performance of each operating division and sub-division, in addition to the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against prior year results, budgets and forecasts.
They are also supplied with the latest available information on safety, health and environmental and risk management issues and details of the safety and health performance of the Group, and each division, in terms of severity and frequency rates for accidents at work.
Senior management from across the Group and advisers attend some of the meetings to provide updates.
The exposure to members of senior management from across the Group helps enhance the Boards understanding of the business, the implementation of strategy and the changing dynamics of the markets in which the Group operates.
Where required, a director may seek independent professional advice, the cost of which is reimbursed by the Group.
All directors have access to the Group Company Secretary and they may also address specific issues with the SID.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, all newly appointed directors must submit themselves for re-election.
All directors stand for yearly re-election.
Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding three years from the date of first election by shareholders, after which the appointment may be extended by mutual agreement.
A statement of the directors responsibilities is set out on page 74.
The Board also operates three committees.
These are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
All non-executive directors serve on each Board Committees.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, Board members serve for a period of six years, which will only be extended in certain circumstances.
If letters of appointment are extended beyond six years, the fixed term is reduced to one year.
In order that necessary actions can be taken promptly, a Finance Sub-Committee, comprising the Chairman or failing him, any other nonexecutive director, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director operates between the dates of scheduled Board meetings and is authorised to make decisions, within limits defined by the Board, in respect of certain finance, treasury, tax or investment matters.
42 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Shareholders The Chairman key responsibilities Effective running of the Board Monitors progress of strategy and objectives Guidance to Executive Directors Safeguards the interests of shareholders The Board key responsibilities Oversight of the Groups strategy and the long-term success of the Groups business Audit Nomination Remuneration Finance Group Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief Executive Monitors the Ensures an Determines Implementation of Responsible for running integrity and effective Board remuneration treasury and tax the Groups business, effectiveness of the that consists of policy and senior policies and, within interfaces with shareholders Groups financial individuals with executives limits fide ned by and analysts, and reporting and the correct balance remuneration the Board, oversees health and performance of of skills, knowledge packages authorise capital safety as well as audits and risks and experience expenditure environmental matters and allot shares Executive Committee Focus on the implementation of the Groups strategy, financial structure, organisational development and policies, and reviews the financial performance Independence of non-executive directors The Board considers that R. Rajagopal, E. Lindqvist and I.
B. Duncan are all independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Chairman was considered independent upon appointment.
Commitment Attendance of directors at regular scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees is shown in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Full Board Committee Committee Committee Director Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended A. M. Thomson 8 8 7 7 5 5 S. C. Harris 8 8 5 5 R. Rajagopal 8 7 4 4 7 7 5 5 E. Lindqvist 8 8 4 4 7 7 5 5 D. F. Landless 8 8 I.
A. Biles 3 3 2 2 2 2 3 3 All directors attended the maximum number of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings that they were scheduled to attend.
In addition, non-members Messrs A. M. Thomson, S. C. Harris and D. F. Landless attended by invitation some parts of the meetings of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate governance statement continued Proposals for re-election The Board decided, in line with the Code, that all directors will retire annually and, other than in the case of any director who has decided to stand down from the Board, will offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Accordingly A. M. Thomson, S. C. Harris, D. F. Landless, E. Lindqvist and I.
B. Duncan will stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
R. Rajagopal will retire as a Non-Executive Director at the May 2016 AGM.
The Board recommends to shareholders that they re-elect or elect all the directors.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, Board members will serve for a period of six years which may be extended in certain circumstances.
The performance of each director was evaluated as indicated above and the Board confirms in respect of each that their performance continues to be effective and that each continues to demonstrate commitment to his or her respective role.
Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management policies and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, including risks arising out of Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
The Board believes that the Group maintains an effective system of internal controls which is in accordance with the FRCs guidance entitled Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors formerly referred to as the Turnbull Report guidance and, in the view of the Board, no significant deficiencies have been identified in the system.
The system was in operation throughout 2015 and continues to operate up to the date of the approval of this report.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to consider whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
In September 2014 the FRC issued guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting which replaces the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors currently being applied by the Group.
The new guidance was applied in the Groups 2015 accounting period.
The Group prepares a comprehensive annual budget which is closely monitored and updated quarterly.
The Groups authority matrix clearly sets out authority limits for those with delegated responsibility and specifies what can only be decided with central approval.
The Board with the assistance of the Internal Audit department monitors the Groups internal financial control system.
Internal Audit reviews are conducted on the basis of plans approved by the Audit Committee, to which Internal Audit reports are submitted on a regular basis.
Every Bodycote site provides assurance on specified financial and non-financial controls through a control self-assessment process.
The results are validated by Internal Audit through spot checks and are reported to the Audit Committee.
In addition, the President and the Vice President of Finance of each division sign a letter of representation annually to confirm the adequacy of their systems of internal controls, their compliance with Group policies, relevant laws and regulations, and that they have reported any control weaknesses through the Groups assurance processes.
During 2015, in compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, management performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
Managements assessment, which has been reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board, included a review of the Groups key strategic and operational risks, which is summarised from work performed by the Group Head of Risk and the Groups Risk Committee to identify risks by means of workshops, interviews, investigations and by reviewing departmental or divisional risk registers.
Further information regarding the ways in which the principal business risks and uncertainties affecting the Group are managed is shown on pages 24 to 26.
No new significant risks were identified as part of this process, and the necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified as part of the reviews.
44 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Investor relations The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director regularly talk with and meet institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the Groups strategy.
In addition, internet users are able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price via the Bodycote website at www.
Users of the website can access recent announcements and copies of results presentations and can enrol to hear live presentations.
On a regular basis, Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public relations consultants provide the directors with opinion surveys from analysts and investing institutions following visits and meetings with the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman and SID are available to discuss any issues not resolved by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
On specific issues, such as the review of remuneration packages, the Group has sought and will continue to seek the views of leading investors.
By order of the Board: U. S. Ball Group Company Secretary 25 February 2016 Springwood Court Springwood Close Tytherington Business Park Macclesfield Cheshire SK10 2XF 45 Stock code: BOY www.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
