Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans Introduction to the Audit Committee Report I am pleased to report on the activities of the Committee for the year ended 27 March 2015.
This report sets out the Committee's findings and recommendations, including those in relation to the areas highlighted in the Code, particularly in: Reviewing the effectiveness of internal financial controls, of internal audit and of financial risk management systems: Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and reviewing judgements relating thereto: Safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the external audit and monitoring its effectiveness: and Recommending appointment of the external auditor and determining their remuneration.
We reported last year that we intended to tender the external audit engagement no later than for the year ending March 2017.
Our preparations for the tender process are underway now that the UK Competition and Markets Authoritys final Order and the EU regulation relating to statutory audit services have been published.
We will report on the process and outcome of the tender in next years annual report.
In parallel with the audit tender process, the Committee intends to review our policy on non-audit services provided by the External Auditor to ensure that the External Auditor continues to be free from any perceived conflict of interest in accordance with the EU Regulation.
We noted media concern surrounding the recognition of rebates and similar income received by other companies operating in the grocery sector from their suppliers during the year.
Such types of income are of financial significance to the Group and are therefore tightly controlled.
Nevertheless, the Committee commissioned a thorough review and remains satisfied with the treatment of, and controls over, such items as is explained in this report.
I will be available to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to answer any questions relating to the role of the Committee.
Andrew Cripps Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 May 2015 25 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Role and Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and other announcements of financial results published by the Group: and reviewing and challenging the judgements and actions of management in relation to the financial statements.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control and financial risk management systems and the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee manages the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor and monitors their performance and independence.
The Group supports an independent and confidential whistleblowing procedure and the Committee monitors the operation of this facility.
In accordance with the Code, the Board requested that the Committee advise whether it believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committees Terms of Reference reflect this requirement and can be found in the Investor Relations Investor Centre Legal Documents section of the Groups website.
A copy may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Membership The Committee is chaired by Andrew Cripps and, during the year, also comprised Lord Bilimoria and Stewart Gilliland.
All members of the Committee are and were considered by the Board to be independent.
The Committee members have been selected to provide the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties and responsibilities.
Andrew Cripps, who is a Chartered Accountant, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the Code.
He also has substantial and recent audit committee experience and ensures that the Committee remains abreast of accounting and regulatory developments.
Lord Bilimoria is also a Chartered Accountant and Stewart Gilliland has substantial relevant commercial experience.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 18 and 19.
The Committee has access to the Groups finance team, to its internal audit function and to its External Auditor and can seek further professional training and advice, at the Groups cost, as appropriate.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings, however, during the year, Richard Rose, Chairman, Charles Wilson, Chief Executive, Jonathan Prentis, Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, members of our trading and finance teams and representatives from KPMG LLP, the External Auditor, were invited to attend meetings.
The Committee also meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and the External Auditor without management being present.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Audit Committee.
Meeting Frequency and Main Activities in the Year The Committee met on four scheduled occasions during the year ended 27 March 2015.
In addition there were four meetings by conference call to review quarterly trading statements for recommendation to the Board.
All members of the Committee attended every scheduled meeting and meetings by conference call except Stewart Gilliland, who was unable to attend a Committee meeting by conference call due to a prior business commitment.
The members attendance record was as follows: Committee member Number of meetings attended Percentage attendance Andrew Cripps Chairman 8 8 100% Lord Bilimoria 8 8 100% Stewart Gilliland 7 8 88% During the year ended 27 March 2015, the Committee reviewed and made recommendations to the Board on the Preliminary Results Announcement for the period to 28 March 2014, the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim Results Announcement for the period to 12 September 2014 and Interim Management Statements in the twelve weeks to 28 March 2014, the twelve weeks to 20 June 2014, the twelve weeks to 12 September 2014 and the sixteen weeks to 2 January 2015.
26 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Since 27 March 2015, the Committee has met three times to review and make recommendations to the Board on the Interim Management Statement for the twelve weeks to 27 March 2015, the Preliminary Results Announcement for the period to 27 March 2015 and the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
In carrying out its reviews during the year, the Committee considered: whether the Group had applied appropriate accounting policies and practices both on a year on year basis and across the Group: the significant areas in which judgement had been applied in preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies set out on pages 64 to 69: reports from the Group Finance Director and the External Auditor: the clarity and completeness of disclosures and compliance with relevant financial reporting standards and corporate governance and regulatory requirements: and whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee also: approved the Internal and External Auditors work plans for the Group: considered regular reports from the Head of Internal Audit on their findings including additional work requested by the Committee concerning the recognition of income from suppliers: reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference: reviewed the External Auditors independence and objectivity, the effectiveness of the audit process, the re-appointment of the External Auditor and approved the External Auditors remuneration: and approved the appropriateness of the External Auditor providing non-audit services and related fees.
Significant Judgemental Areas The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the accounts for the year ended 27 March 2015 and how these were addressed are outlined below.
Each of these areas received particular focus from the External Auditor, who provided detailed analysis and assessment of the matters in their report to the Committee.
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme Accounting The Group operates a variety of post employment benefit arrangements, as outlined in note 19 to the financial statements.
Although the defined benefit scheme is closed to future accrual, it is sensitive to changes in actuarial assumptions.
We challenged the valuations prepared by the Groups pension advisors and, following discussions with management, were satisfied that the judgements exercised were appropriate.
During their audit, KPMG LLP evaluated the assumptions and methodologies used by the Groups pension advisors and assessed whether the assumptions made were appropriate and not materially different from external benchmarks.
KPMG LLP reported to us on the assumptions used and the way that our schemes had been accounted for.
Property Provisions The Group has recorded property provisions in the sum of 25.4m as outlined in note 20 to the financial statements, which, by their nature, are uncertain and highly judgemental.
We scrutinised the key elements of judgement with management to assure ourselves as to the adequacy and appropriateness of the provisions.
Following this review, we were satisfied that the judgements exercised were appropriate.
As part of the year end audit, KPMG LLP considered the nature of the provisions, the potential outcomes, any developments relating to specific claims, and the prior history of lease obligations, provisions and claims in order to assess whether the provisions recorded were appropriate.
Following discussions with the External Auditor, and the deliberations set out above, we were satisfied that the financial statements dealt appropriately with each of the areas of significant judgement.
The External Auditor also reported to the Committee on any misstatements that they had found in the course of their work.
The Committee noted their work and were satisfied that no material amounts required adjustment.
27 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial statements is for the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The coordination and review of Group wide contributions into the Annual Report and Accounts follows a well established and documented process, which is performed in parallel with the formal process undertaken by the External Auditor.
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by management in the preparation of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that it met the requirements of the Code and our Terms of Reference.
This, and our own scrutiny of the document, enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Internal Controls and Financial Risk Management Systems The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and financial risk management systems.
In carrying out these responsibilities, the Committee reviewed reports issued by both Internal Audit and the External Auditor and held regular discussions with the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the External Auditor.
The Committee noted media concern surrounding the recognition of rebates and similar income received by other companies operating in the grocery sector from their suppliers.
Such types of income are of financial significance to the Group and are therefore tightly controlled, as is evidenced from regular inspections by Internal Audit and their reports to the Committee.
Nevertheless, the Committee promptly commissioned a more detailed review including a written report from management, presentations to the Committee from both the trading team and those responsible for recording the terms of trade, and an additional investigation by Internal Audit.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the findings of these reports, presentations and investigations and is satisfied that the treatment of such types of income is both prudent and appropriate, and that controls are robust.
The treatment of supplier rebates is explained in Note 2, Accounting policies, on page 68.
Internal Audit The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function including its focus, work plan, activities and resources.
At the beginning of the financial year, the Committee reviewed and approved the Internal Audit plan for the year having considered the principal areas of risk in the business and the adequacy of staffing levels and expertise within the function.
During the year, the Committee received regular reports from the Head of Internal Audit summarising findings from the work of Internal Audit and the responses from management to deal with the findings.
The Committee monitors progress on the implementation of any action plans arising on significant findings to ensure these are completed satisfactorily and meets with the Head of Internal Audit in the absence of management.
External Audit It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the performance, objectivity and independence of the External Auditor.
In February 2015, we met with KPMG LLP, the External Auditor, to agree the audit plan for the year, highlighting the key financial statement and audit risks, to ensure that the audit was appropriately focused.
In addition, KPMG LLPs letter of engagement was reviewed by the Committee in advance of the audit.
In May 2015, in advance of the finalisation of the Groups financial statements, we received a report from KPMG LLP on their key audit findings, which included the key areas of risk and significant judgements referred to above, and discussed the issues with them in order for the Committee to form a judgement on the financial statements.
In addition, we considered the Letter of Representation that the External Auditor requires from the Board.
We meet with the External Auditor privately at least twice a year to discuss any matters they may wish to raise without management being present.
Assessment of Effectiveness of External Audit The Committee reviewed KPMG LLPs performance and on-going independence, taking into account input from management, consideration of responses to questions from the Committee and the audit findings reported to the Committee.
As part of the process, the Committee reviewed the feedback from the Public Report on the Audit Quality Inspection of KPMG LLP, issued by the FRC in May 2014.
The Committee concluded that the external audit process was operating effectively and KPMG LLP continued to prove effective in its role as External Auditor.
28 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance The External Auditor is required to replace its audit partner every five years.
The most recent change occurred in the year ended March 2011 and, therefore, the existing partner will rotate after the upcoming AGM and a new partner is required in respect of the financial year ending 25 March 2016.
The Chairman of the Committee and the Group Finance Director requested details of the most suitable partners from the External Auditor, conducted interviews and made a joint recommendation which was accepted by the Committee.
The criteria used for this process included examining experience of public company audits, work with similar businesses and absence of potential conflicts.
The Committee, having completed the activities outlined, remains confident that the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the External Auditor is not impaired in any way.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of External Auditor.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board and to shareholders that KPMG LLP should be re-appointed as the Companys External Auditor at the AGM on 8 July 2015.
The Committee is mindful, however, of the requirements of the Code that the audit should be put out to tender every ten years, and the UK Competition and Markets Authority's final Order the Order and the EU Regulation which was published in October 2014 and which will each require mandatory audit tendering and, as required, rotation at ten year intervals.
The Committee is also mindful of the transitional provisions of the EU Regulation which will require the Company to change its External Auditor prior to 16 June 2016.
The current External Auditor was first appointed for the year ended 1 April 2005 and the external audit has not been tendered since then.
In order to comply with the transitional provisions of the Order and the EU Regulation, the Committee has notified KPMG LLP of its intention to put the audit out to tender during the current financial year, with a view to the successful audit firm being appointed to audit the Groups financial statements for the year commencing 25 March 2016.
Non-Audit Services The Committee recognises the potential for any non-audit services to compromise auditor independence and the External Auditor is not permitted to conduct any assignment which may affect objectivity or independence.
Subject to this, where it is helpful to the Group for KPMG to provide assistance, the Committee monitors the services provided and fees charged.
Non-audit work comprised the interim review, for which fees of 41,000 were charged, and other small assignments to assist with tax compliance and other matters for aggregate fees of 24,000.
The Committee believes that there are sound commercial and practical reasons for this work being conducted by the External Auditor and that it is not of a nature which would affect their independence as External Auditor.
The Committee intends, at the same time as the audit tender, to review its policy on non audit services provided by the External Auditor to ensure that the External Auditor remains free from any perceived conflict of interest.
Whistleblowing Programme The Group has a whistleblowing programme in all of its operations whereby employees can, in confidence, report on matters where they feel a malpractice has taken or is taking place, or if health and safety standards have been or are being compromised.
Additional areas that are addressed by this procedure include criminal activities, improper or unethical behaviour and risks to the environment.
The programme allows employees to raise their concerns with their line manager or, if that is inappropriate, to raise them on a confidential basis.
An externally facilitated confidential helpline and confidential email facility are provided to protect the identity of employees in these circumstances.
Any concerns are investigated on a confidential basis by the Human Resources Department and or the Company Secretary and feedback is given to the person making the complaint as appropriate via the confidential email facility.
An official written record is kept of each stage of the procedure and reported to the Committee.
Committee Effectiveness The effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed on an annual basis by both the Board and the Committee itself.
Both reviews concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively and efficiently.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2015.
Andrew Cripps Chairman of the Audit Committee 29
