Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination Committee for 2015.
This Report provides shareholders with an overview of the activities carried out during the year.
On 2 April 2015, it was announced that after nine years as Chairman of Blueheath and then Booker Group Plc, I had decided to retire on conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
I should like to thank my fellow directors for all their support over the past nine years and to wish the Company continued success in the future.
In relation to the appointment of my successor as Chairman, Lord Bilimoria, the Company's Senior Independent Director, has chaired the Committee and the Board when dealing with the appointment of my successor as Chairman of the Company.
The search is ongoing and it is expected that an announcement will be made as to my successor prior to the forthcoming AGM.
To assist it in the search for a new Chairman, the Committee has engaged The Zygos Partnership.
During the year the Committee focused on reviewing the Companys succession plans for appointments to the Board to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity is achieved and having regard to the need to ensure the progressive refreshing of the Board.
This issue was of particular relevance given that Andrew Cripps and Lord Bilimoria will have completed over 9 years of service on the Board in 2016.
As a consequence of this review, we have decided to refresh the composition of our Board and of various Board committees in order to strengthen the Board in advance of any potential retirements and to aid future succession planning.
The Committee has engaged The Zygos Partnership to undertake a search for a candidate with the appropriate skills and experience to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director and ultimately to succeed Andrew Cripps as Chairman of the Audit Committee in due course.
Separately, membership of this Committee has been refreshed, with Karen Jones being appointed as a member with effect from 4 February 2015.
In addition, Lord Bilimoria will replace me as Chairman of the Committee with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Looking forward, the Committee will continue to review long term succession plans for the Board, with the aim of ensuring that an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity is maintained and that there is progressive refreshing of the Board over the next few years.
I will be available to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to answer any questions relating to the role of the Committee.
Richard Rose Chairman of the Nomination Committee 20 May 2015 30 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Role and Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee has defined Terms of Reference which can be found in the Investor Relations Legal Documents section of the Groups website.
A copy may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of additional Directors and for reviewing the size, structure and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and the membership of Board committees to ensure that they have the necessary range of competencies, knowledge and experience required for the direction and oversight of the business.
Membership The Committee during the year from 29 March 2014 until 4 February 2015 comprised Richard Rose Chairman, Lord Bilimoria and Andrew Cripps.
From 4 February 2015 the Committee comprised Richard Rose Chairman, Lord Bilimoria, Andrew Cripps, and Karen Jones.
All members of the Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Richard Rose did not chair the Committee when it dealt with the search for and selection of his successor and no other member of the Committee put themselves forward as a potential candidate for the Chairmanship.
No member of the Committee nor any other Director participates in discussions concerning or votes on his or her own reelection or evaluation of his own performance.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 18 and 19.
Their remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings, however, during the year, Charles Wilson Chief Executive was invited to attend meetings.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Board Composition Succession The Board plans for its own succession, with the support of the Committee.
The Committee remains focused, on behalf of the Board, on Board succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee aims to ensure that: the succession pipeline for senior executive and business critical roles in the organisation is adequate: processes are in place to identify potential successors and manage succession activity: there is a structured approach to developing and preparing possible successors: and processes are in place to identify at risk posts.
31 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Meeting Frequency and Main Activities in the Year The Nomination Committee met twice during the year ended 27 March 2015 to: Review the size, structure and composition of the Board.
Recommend to the Board that Karen Jones, whose three-year tenure expired in February of this year, be re-appointed as a Non-Executive Director for a further three-year term subject to re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM: Recommend to the Board that all of the Directors who have indicated their willingness to stand for re-election be proposed for re-election as Directors at the forthcoming AGM: Commence the search for a candidate to succeed Richard Rose as Chairman of the Company from the conclusion of the AGM on 8 July 2015.
That search is ongoing: Embark on a search for a new Non-Executive Director with appropriate skills and experience who it is intended will ultimately succeed Andrew Cripps as Chairman of the Audit Committee in due course.
This search commenced at the beginning of February this year and is ongoing: Review the Committees report within the 2014 Annual Report and recommend its approval to the Board.
In preparing the job specification, assessing the time commitment expected and agreeing the skills and experience desired for a potential successor Chairman, considerable emphasis has been placed on identifying a candidate with considerable recent experience of the grocery and wholesale retail sectors generally and the ability to work closely and effectively with the Chief Executive in delivering the Companys strategy whilst providing the necessary degree of independence and challenge.
The search for a suitable candidate began within the Board.
The search has then been widened through the use of an external agency, The Zygos Partnership.
The Zygos Partnership does not have any connection to the Group other than in respect of the provision of these services.
The Chairmans commitment to the Company will usually be two days per month.
To assist it in the search for a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee has again engaged The Zygos Partnership.
The Zygos Partnership has been provided with a detailed brief of the desired candidate profile based on merit and against objective criteria including an assessment of the time commitment expected and their services are being used to conduct a thorough search to identify suitable candidates.
The Committee has been considering a list of potential candidates and the skills, knowledge, independence and diversity in its widest sense gender, nationality, age, experience, ethnicity and background which would benefit the Company.
The search for a new Non-Executive Director who it is intended will ultimately succeed Andrew Cripps as Chairman of the Audit Committee is ongoing.
The Company did not use open advertising to search for suitable candidates for the roles of Chairman or Non-Executive Director, as we believe that the optimal way of recruiting for these positions is generally to use targeted recruitment based on the skills and experience required.
The Committee also considered the membership of the Board and each of its Committees.
The Committee continues to actively review the long term succession planning process for Directors to ensure the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees continues to be effective, thus ensuring appropriate levels of corporate governance and best practice and support for the Company as it pursues its strategy.
As part of its review, the Committee considered the performance and independence of Karen Jones, Helena Andreas, Stewart Gilliland, Andrew Cripps and Lord Bilimoria, each of them having confirmed their willingness to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Following a rigorous review, the Committee concluded that, notwithstanding Karen Jones, Andrew Cripps and Lord Bilimorias length of service over six years as Non-Executive Directors of the Company, they were each still independent in character and judgement and they each continued to devote sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
The Committee considered that the performance of each of Karen Jones, Helena Andreas, Stewart Gilliland, Andrew Cripps and Lord Bilimoria was effective and accordingly recommended to the Board that they each be proposed for re-election as a Director of the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
Membership of this Committee was also refreshed during the year, with Karen Jones being appointed as a member in February 2015.
In addition, Lord Bilimoria will replace Richard Rose as Chairman of the Committee with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
32 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Members attendance record was as follows: Committee member Number of meetings attended Percentage attendance Richard Rose Chairman 2 2 100% Lord Bilimoria 2 2 100% Andrew Cripps 2 2 100% Karen Jones 2 2 100% Since 27 March 2015, the Committee has met on three occasions.
Diversity We value diversity in the Boardroom and see it as a wider topic than simply gender.
Our Directors come from different backgrounds and each brings unique capabilities and perspectives to our discussions, with a wide range of professional and geographical backgrounds.
We are committed to maintaining a diverse Board.
Appointments to the Board and throughout the Group will continue to be made on merit and overall suitability for the role against objective criteria with due regard to the benefits of diversity including, but not limited to, experience and gender.
Whilst the Committee has not determined to set targets for the number of women on the Board, we continue to consider and make appointments based on merit, just as was the case when our first female Director was appointed in 2009.
When recruiting, we require any search agency to have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms setting out the seven key principles of best practice to abide by throughout the recruitment process.
Statistical gender diversity employment data for the Group can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 10.
Committee Performance and Effectiveness The Board additionally undertook an annual review of the Committees performance and effectiveness and concluded that the Committee operated effectively.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2015.
Richard Rose Chairman of the Nomination Committee 33
