Members Committee reports Brendan Nelson chair Member since November 2010: committee Audit committee chair since April 2011 George David Member from February 2008 to April 2015 Phuthuma Nhleko Member since February 2011 Paula Rosput Reynolds Member since May 2015 Andrew Shilston Member since February 2012 Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly vice chairman of KPMG and president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Currently he is chairman of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
The board is satisfied that Mr Nelson is the audit committee member with recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It considers that the committee as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to address.
The board also determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Chairmans introduction Exchange Act of 1934 and that Mr Nelson may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F. 2015 was another active year for the audit committee.
We took the opportunity of the new UK Corporate Governance Code reporting Meetings and attendance requirements to take a fresh look at the companys risk management There were 11 committee meetings in 2015, of which three were carried processes.
This involved reviewing the groups principal risks, considering out by teleconference and five were joint meetings with the SEEAC.
All scenarios that might impact the companys longer-term viability and directors attended every meeting for which they were eligible, with the debating the categorization of what would constitute significant failings and following exceptions: weaknesses in our system of internal control.
George David did not attend the teleconference on 25 February 2015 The committee continued to build its understanding of BPs business, due to prior commitments.
including how key risks are identied and mitigated and how segments and Phuthuma Nhleko did not attend the committee meeting on 23 April functions are performing to achieve the groups strategy.
To complement 2015 due to a clash with the AGM of another company.
the presentations received in the board room, the committee met Paula Rosput Reynolds did not attend the committee meeting on employees on several site visits including trading floors in Houston and 23 September 2015 due to a conflicting board meeting.
London and the groups cybersecurity monitoring centre.
Meetings are also attended by the chief financial officer, group controller, During 2015 the committees membership evolved, with our longest-serving chief accounting officer, head of group audit and external auditor.
member George David retiring in April and Paula Rosput Reynolds joining us in May.
I would like to thank George for his insight and challenge during his Activities during the year tenure and to welcome Paula, who brings broad financial and corporate Training knowledge from her business career.
The skills and experience of our The committee held a learning event on changes to the UK Corporate committee membership remain strong and I believe that the committee has Governance Code and received technical updates during the year from performed effectively over the year.
the chief accounting officer on developments in financial reporting and Brendan Nelson accounting policy.
Committee chair Financial disclosure The committee reviewed the quarterly, half-year and annual financial Role of the committee statements with management, focusing on the integrity and clarity of The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial disclosure, compliance with relevant legal and financial reporting standards reporting, systems of internal control and risk management and the and the application of critical accounting policies and judgements.
integrity of the groups external and internal audit processes.
The committee jointly reviewed with the SEEAC whether the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 was fair, balanced and understandable and Key responsibilities provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation position and performance, business model and strategy.
The two of financial risks is appropriately addressed by the group chief executive committees considered the processes underpinning the compilation and and that the system of internal control is designed and implemented assurance of the report in relation to financial and non-financial effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board executive management information.
Following this joint review, the full board limitations as set out in the BP board governance principles.
reviewed the report as a whole including tone, balance, language and Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and consistency between the narrative sections and financial statements.
Part monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements.
of the boards evaluation included a review of the companys internal Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function, BPs internal processes that form the groups reporting governance framework.
The financial controls and system of internal control and risk management.
boards statement on the report is on page 93.
Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services to BP.
Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issues and for those matters to be investigated.
68 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Corporate governance Areas of audit committee focus in 2015 Financial results announcements.
Conrmation of external auditor Annual Report and Form 20-F. independence.
Non-audit fees: policy and approval.
Developments in financial reporting Audit plan, fees and engagement.
Oil and gas reserves disclosure.
Proposed regulations for non-audit work.
Financial Fair, balanced and understandable.
External Key areas of judgement for year-end audit.
audit System of internal Review of effectiveness of BPs system Cybersecurity.
Risk control and risk of internal control and risk management.
reviews management Quarterly group audit reports.
Quarterly significant allegations and Review of the Downstream segment.
Quarterly ethics and compliance reports.
Succession and people development in Ethics and compliance function remit.
Principal risks, viability and significant Pensions and post-retirement benets failings and weaknesses.
Undertaken jointly with the SEEAC.
Significant areas of accounting judgement considered by the committee during the year Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit committee review Oil and natural gas BP uses judgement and estimations when accounting for oil The committee reviewed judgemental aspects of oil and gas accounting and gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure accounting such as intangible asset balances relating to and determining the groups estimated oil and gas reserves.
exploration and appraisal activities as part of the companys quarterly due-diligence process.
It also examined the governance framework for the oil and gas reserves process, training for staff and developments in regulations and controls.
significant exploration write-offs during the year were disclosed in the relevant quarter.
Recoverability of asset Determination as to whether and how much an asset is The committee reviewed the discount rates for impairment carrying values impaired involves management judgement and estimates on testing as part of its annual process and examined the highly uncertain matters such as future pricing or discount assumptions for long-term oil and gas prices and rening rates.
Judgements are also required in assessing the margins.
It received updates from management at each recoverability of overdue receivables and deciding whether quarter relating to market forward prices used for impairment a provision is required.
testing and considered whether any further impairment indicators were present.
The committee also reviewed managements approach to reviewing the carrying values of upstream assets following further falls in market forward prices.
significant impairments during the year were disclosed as non-operating items in the relevant quarter.
Accounting for BP exercises judgement when assessing the level of control The committee continued to review the accounting for BPs interests in other obtained in a transaction to acquire an interest in another investment in Rosneft including the judgement on whether entities entity and when determining the fair value of assets acquired the group has significant influence over Rosneft.
During the and liabilities assumed, and the level of control which year the committee received reports from management and continues to be exercised going forward.
the external auditor that assessed the extent of BPs influence, including participation in decision making through the election of two BP nominees to the Rosneft board.
It also assessed other factors, including the signing of binding agreements for BP to complete the purchase of a 20% interest in Taas-Yuryakh Neftegazodobycha, a Rosneft subsidiary.
The groups trading BP uses judgement when estimating the fair value of some The committee received a detailed brieng on the groups activities derivative instruments in cases where there is an absence of trading risk, controls and compliance and visited BPs trading liquid market pricing information for example, relating to floors in Houston and London.
The committee considered the supply and trading activities.
controls in place to prevent unauthorized trading activity and received information on the valuation of the groups derivative instruments and the financial models that are used.
The committee received briengs on the groups Provisions and The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of contingencies oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the decommissioning, environmental remediation and litigation provisioning, including key assumptions used, the governance end of their economic lives.
Most of these decommissioning events are in the long term and the requirements that will framework applied covering accountabilities and controls, discount rates and the movement in provisions over time.
have to be met when a removal event occurs are uncertain.
Judgement is applied when estimating issues such as settlement dates, technology and legal requirements.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 69 Dened on page 256.
Accounting judgements and estimates continued Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit committee review Gulf of Mexico oil spill Judgement was applied during the year around the significant The committee regularly discussed BPs provisioning for and uncertainties over provisions and contingencies relating to the the disclosure of contingent liabilities relating to the Gulf of incident.
Mexico oil spill with management and the external auditors, including as part of the review of BPs stock exchange announcement at each quarter end.
The committee examined the provisions booked as a result of the agreements in principle signed in July.
In instances where a reliable estimate could not be made of the provision required, the committee considered managements conclusions and monitored developments while considering the impact on the financial statements and other disclosures.
Pensions and other Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benets The committee examined the assumptions used by post-retirement involves judgement about uncertain events, including management as part of its annual reporting process.
benets discount rates, inflation and life expectancy.
Taxation Computation of the groups tax expense and liability, The committee reviewed the judgements exercised on tax provisioning for potential tax liabilities and the level of deferred provisioning as part of its annual review of key provisions.
tax asset recognition in relation to accumulated tax losses are underpinned by management judgement.
Risk reviews External audit The external auditors set out their audit strategy, identifying key risks to be The group risks allocated to the audit committee for monitoring in 2015 included those associated with trading activities, compliance with applicable considered during the year including longer-term oil and gas prices, the groups cost outlook, the capital framework in a lower oil price laws and regulations and security threats against BPs digital infrastructure.
The committee held in-depth reviews of these group risks over the year.
It environment, discount rate assumptions, considerations around impairments, estimation of oil and gas reserves and resources, also examined the groups information technology risks, its governance of the tax function and the use of financial models including their associated decommissioning, valuation of exploration assets, accounting for BPs investment in the Rosneft subsidiary Taas, deferred taxation, estimation of controls framework.
The committee further considered the financial group or principal risks identied for 2016 and the groups process to assess, the groups pension obligations, the recovery of receivables and management of change.
BPs principal risks are listed on page 53.
For 2016, the board has agreed that the committee will monitor cybersecurity, The committee received updates during the year on the audit process, trading activities and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
including how the auditors had independently considered the groups assumptions on these issues.
Other reviews During the year the committee reviewed succession and development of The audit committee reviews the fee structure, resourcing and terms of the groups finance function, including an overview of the demographics engagement for the external auditor annually.
Fees paid to the external and key capability challenges for finance staff.
The groups Downstream auditor for the year were $51 million 2014 $53 million, of which 6% was segment was reviewed to examine the financial performance and strategic for non-assurance work see Financial statements Note 35.
Non-audit or priorities of the individual fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals businesses, non-audit related assurance fees were $3 million 2014 $5 million.
The including key areas of financial risk management.
$2-million reduction in non-audit fees relates primarily to decreases in tax Internal control and risk management advisory and other assurance services.
Non-audit or non-audit related assurance services consisted of tax compliance services, tax advisory The committee reviewed the groups system of internal control and risk management throughout the year, holding a joint meeting with the SEEAC services, other assurance services and services relating to corporate finance transactions.
The audit committee is satisfied that this level of fee to discuss key audit findings and managements actions.
The committee reviewed the scope, activity and effectiveness of the group audit function is appropriate in respect of the audit services provided and that an effective audit can be conducted for this fee.
and met privately with the head of group audit and his leadership team during the year.
Audit non-audit service three-year comparison $m During the year the committee examined the requirements of the revised Audit and audit-related assurance services Non-audit and other assurance services UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the assessment and Services relating to BP pension plans reporting of longer-term viability, risk management and internal control.
The committee looked at key elements of BPs risk management process, 50 47 47 47 including the reporting and categorisation of risk across the group, and 40 jointly with the SEEAC examined what might constitute a significant failing 30 or weakness in the system of internal control.
The two committees also reviewed the modelling undertaken to stress test different financial and 20 operational events and considered the appropriate period for which the 10 5 5 3 company was viable.
1 1 1 0 See our statements on risk management and internal control on page 93 2013 2014 2015 and on longer-term viability on page 94.
The committee received quarterly reports on the findings of group audit, The effectiveness of the audit process was evaluated through two surveys on significant allegations and investigations and on key ethics and one completed by committee members only and the second by those BP compliance issues: a joint meeting was held with the SEEAC to discuss personnel impacted by the audit.
The surveys used a set of criteria to the annual report certifying compliance with the BP code of conduct.
The measure the auditors performance against the quality commitment set two committees also met to discuss future programmes for the group out in their annual audit plan.
This included the robustness of the audit audit and ethics and compliance functions.
The committee held a private process, independence and objectivity, quality of delivery, quality of people meeting with the group ethics and compliance officer during the year.
and service and value added advice.
70 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
