Nomination Committee report The Committee has kept the balance and composition of the Board under review, made nominations for appointment and maintained its focus on succession planning.
Ian Tyler, Committee Chairman Monitoring the leadership needs of the Company and leading Overview the process for Board appointments, ensuring they are With the growth of the Group, the Committee maintained conducted on merit, against objective criteria including diversity, a watching brief on the knowledge, skills and experience using the services of an appropriate external search consultant.
available to the Board and its diversity.
Two new directors were Making recommendations to the Board, including on the recommended for appointment.
Ralph Findlay joined the Board re-appointment of non-executive directors, the re-election in April 2015 as a non-executive director and succeeded to the of directors at the AGM, and membership of the Audit and Chair of the Audit Committee at the 2015 AGM.
was appointed Group Finance Director, also in April 2015.
The Committee also reviews the results of the Board performance The Committee will continue to monitor the balance and evaluation relating to the composition of the Board.
External legal composition of the Board as the Group implements its growth or other independent professional advice can be obtained at the strategy.
Information on the Boards skillset is set out on page 44, Companys expense, although this facility was not utilised during together with biographies.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre Committee membership and meetings corporate-governance.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Company Main activities during the year and the Chief Executive.
Ian Tyler chaired the Committee during The main activities during early 2015 were focused on succession the year and the other members of the Committee were Alastair planning following a long period of stability.
The Committee Lyons, John Warren until 15 May 2015, Chris Browne, Ralph recommended the appointment of Ralph Findlay as a non-executive Findlay from 7 April 2015 and David Ritchie.
director, with the intention that he take over as Chairman of the Attendance Audit Committee following the conclusion of a handover process.
Name Date of appointment Role at meetings Ralph was appointed on 7 April 2015 and took over as Audit Ian Tyler 29 11 2013 Chairman 5 5 Committee Chairman at the AGM on 15 May 2015, with the retirement of John Warren from the Board.
A formal, comprehensive Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 5 5 and tailored induction was provided for Ralph, which included visits to Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Member 5 5 the regional offices, site visits and meetings with senior management.
Ralph Findlay 07 04 2015 Member 3 3 The Committee also concluded the recruitment of a new Group John Warren Finance Director, which began during the fourth quarter of 2014, 01 03 2006 Member 2 2 retired 15 05 15 with Earl Sibley being appointed to the Board on 16 April 2015.
David Ritchie 03 07 2008 Member 5 5 A summary of the Committees activities during 2015 follows: The Committee met five times in 2015, with the key focus in Keeping the structure, size and composition of the Board the early part of the year being on Board composition and the under review, concluding that the present Board balance and recruitment of a non-executive director and a new Group Finance composition remains appropriate for the time being.
Later in the year the Committee reviewed the diversity policy, considered Running the recruitment process for a new non-executive director, succession planning for the executive directors and senior using objective criteria and the external search services of The Zygos management and noted the publication of the FRC discussion paper Partnership who have no other connection with the Company, on succession planning and the role of the nomination committee.
including recommendation of appointment to the Board.
For all meetings, papers and supporting documentation were Running the recruitment process for the new Group Finance circulated sufficiently in advance to allow proper consideration Director, using objective criteria and the external search services of matters for discussion.
The Group Company Secretary acts as of Odgers Berndtson who have no other connection with the secretary to the Committee.
Company, including recommendation of appointment to the Board.
Responsibilities and terms of reference Considering succession planning as the Group grows in size, with a view to future requirements.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: Reviewing planning for executive director and senior management Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board succession, against the background of organisational development.
including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity and to make recommendations to the Board.
Recommending the directors to stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Considering succession planning for directors and senior executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities Approving the Nomination Committee report for the 2014 facing the Company and the skills and expertise needed in Annual Report.
Reviewing the Committees terms of reference.
78 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Cloakham Lawns Axminster The Committee also reviewed the results of the 2014 external Board important consideration as part of the objective criteria used to assess performance evaluation relating to the composition of the Board.
candidates to achieve a balanced board.
A decision has been taken not to set measurable objectives and the Committee continues to Non-executive directors service contracts are renewed on an annual consider boardroom diversity in its succession planning discussions.
basis following the conclusion of a second three year term, subject to satisfactory performance and there being no need to re-balance Performance evaluation the Board, with the third year of the third term extending until the An evaluation of the performance of the Board Committees was subsequent AGM.
Having served for seven years, a recommendation completed as part of the formal evaluation of the Board, completed was made to the Board that the service contract for Alastair Lyons be at the start of 2016.
The Committee was found to be effective renewed for a further one year term.
This followed a rigorous review, and it was concluded that it had fulfilled its remit in 2015 and had including the contribution, performance and commitment of Alastair appropriate terms of reference.
and the composition of the Board as a whole.
The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly supported and the Committee reviewed the diversity policy, first published in Ian Tyler September 2011.
The policy sets out that appointments to the Chairman of the Nomination Committee Board will always be based on merit, so that the Board has the 19 February 2016 right individuals in place, and explains that diversity is seen as an Bovis Homes Group PLC | 79
