Audit Committee report I am pleased to introduce my first Audit Committee report since taking over as Chairman following the 2015 AGM.
The Committee continues to play a fundamental role in protecting shareholders interests and, during the year, has reviewed the Groups financial reporting, risk management and internal control systems and acted in oversight of external and Internal Audit.
Ralph Findlay, Committee Chairman Overview Responsibilities and terms of reference During the year, the Committee reviewed the integrity of the The key responsibilities of the Committee are: Groups financial statements, with focus on significant areas Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, the of judgement, and kept operating, financial and accounting accompanying reports to shareholders and corporate governance practices under review.
The system for internal control, financial statements, including reviewing the findings of the external auditor.
reporting and risk management was monitored in the context Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of systems for of the growth of the Group to ensure its ongoing effectiveness internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
and reporting from management, Internal Audit and the external auditor was openly debated, testing conclusions and Overseeing and reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
The Committee was pleased to welcome Making recommendations to the Board in relation to the  LLP as external auditor, following their appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving appointment at the 2015 AGM.
their remuneration and terms of engagement.
Committee membership and meetings Reviewing and monitoring the external audit process and the The Committee comprises three independent non-executive independence and objectivity of the auditor, as well as the directors, who between them have the recent and relevant nature and scope of the external audit and its effectiveness.
experience required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Developing the policy on the engagement of the external auditor Biographical details and information on skillsets are provided on to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant pages 44 and 45. ethical guidance.
Committee membership is determined by the Board following The Committees terms of reference are available on the recommendation from the Nomination Committee and it is Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre reviewed as part of the Committees performance evaluation.
Ralph Findlay became a member of the Committee on his appointment as a non-executive director on 7 April 2015 and Main activities during the year took over as Chairman with the retirement of John Warren at the The Committee followed a programme structured around AGM on 15 May 2015.
The Company Chairman, Chief Executive the annual reporting cycle and received reports from Internal and Group Finance Director attend meetings by invitation and Audit, the external auditors and management.
The key activities were present at all meetings in 2015.
KPMG LLP attended the first undertaken were: meeting of the year and  LLP attended two meetings following their appointment as external auditors Discussed with the external auditors the key accounting at the 2015 AGM.
The Internal Audit Director and the Group considerations and judgements reflected in the Groups results Financial Controller were also in attendance at all meetings.
for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Attendance Reviewed the 2014 annual report and accounts, so as to Name Date of appointment Role at meetings recommend to the Board that, taken as a whole, it was fair, Ralph Findlay 07 04 2015 Chairman 2 2 balanced and understandable.
appointed Chairman 15 05 15 Considered and recommended to the Board the presentations Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 3 3 for analysts.
John Warren 01 03 2006 Chairman 1 1 retired 15 05 15 Assessed the results and effectiveness of the 2014 final audit.
Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Member 3 3 Recommended the appointment of a new external auditor to the Board, following a competitive tender process, and The Committee met three times in 2015 and detailed papers approved the terms of engagement and remuneration.
and information were received sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration of matters for discussion.
Reviewed and discussed with the external auditor the key The Committee also met with the external auditors and Internal accounting considerations and judgements reflected in the Audit, without executive management present, following the Groups results for the six months ended 30 June 2015. final audit and the review of the 2014 financial statements and Evaluated and agreed the external auditors audit strategy the 2014 Internal Audit report.
No matters of concern were memorandum in advance of their 2015 year-end audit.
Both John Warren and Ralph Findlay met privately with the audit engagement partner of the external Received reports from Internal Audit covering various aspects of auditors and the Internal Audit Director during the year.
the Groups operations, controls and processes.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
An overview of the main activities during 2015 is provided below.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 73 Audit Committee report Assessed and agreed the Internal Auditors audit plan for 2016, justified by management and the land write down provision based on the agreed risk universe, together with the required remaining at the period end 6.7 million was reviewed, level of resource.
together with the profit attributable to the reversal of the provision on the sale of written down units during the year, Reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control which was not considered to be material.
Following discussion, and risk management systems and reported to the Board that the Committee was satisfied that the judgements exercised were there were no material control weaknesses.
appropriate and that the provision was appropriately stated at the year end.
Details of the movements in the provision are Reviewed managements going concern assessment at each provided in note 3.1 to the accounts on page 101. reporting period end, considering detailed financial forecasts, future cash flow projections and the resources available to the Available for sale financial assets - the assumptions used to fair Group, including the current banking facility and forecast value available for sale financial assets, otherwise known as covenant compliance.
shared equity and details of which are provided in note 4.2 on page 103, affects the carrying value on the balance sheet.
Reviewed managements viability assessment for the year end These assumptions require the exercise of significant reporting period covering strategic planning, principal risks, judgement by management.
This is assessed through the detailed financial forecasts, resources available to the Group, Committee discussing with management and the auditors the scenario testing, qualifications and assumptions and the assumptions adopted and any adjustments made to those period chosen.
assumptions, including, in particular, the long run HPI Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
assumption and the discount rate which are the key determinants of the expected final redemption value.
Following Reviewed the Companys whistleblowing policy and discussion the Committee considered that the assumptions arrangements.
At its meeting in February 2016, the Committee discussed with Margin recognition - the level of costs attributable to each legal the external auditor the key accounting considerations and completion affects the profit and margin recognised in the judgements reflected in the Groups results for the year ended income statement.
Certain site wide costs including land and 31 December 2015 and reviewed the 2015 annual report and infrastructure are allocated to individual legal completions on a accounts, to be able to recommend to the Board that, taken proportionate basis using an approximate measure for the area as a whole, it was fair, balanced and understandable and of land each housing plot utilises as the basis of allocation.
provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess The total costs allocated represent the combination of costs the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
incurred to date and an estimate of the cost to complete.
The approach taken was to analyse key areas of progress and The assessment of cost to complete is based on the specific challenge during the year, followed by reviewing the 2015 details of each site and incorporates certain assumptions and annual report and accounts to ensure that all key areas had been judgements by management.
The level of profit recognised in reported upon in a balanced and fair way.
the income statement is monitored throughout the year via Significant areas the Groups usual budgeting, forecasting and management accounts reporting.
The methodology adopted and the Groups The key accounting judgements considered by the Committee in performance to date against expectations had been audited by relation to the 2015 accounts and discussed with the external the external auditors.
auditors, were: Land acquisitions - certain land acquisitions incorporate site Inventory provisioning - the level of inventory provisioning specific terms for example overages, conditionality or ongoing impacts the carrying value of the most significant balance on obligations with the land owner.
The key terms are assessed the balance sheet.
Since the downturn in the land market in and appropriate accounting entries made for such acquisitions 2008 the Company has carried a provision to write down the where they impact the balance sheet land value.
The material carrying value of the land held within inventories to the lower and complex land transactions in the year were substantively of cost and net realisable value, less costs to sell, where this audited by the external auditors.
Management review and is less than the historical cost.
The assessment of the level of understand the impact of the key terms of each land provision required, requires the exercise of judgement transaction as part of the acquisition process and in line with by management.
The Committee receives a regular report on an escalating system of approval based on materiality certain this provision, updated by management, at relevant Committee acquisitions are appropriately assessed by the Chairman and meetings.
At this year end the paper proposed an immaterial the Board as a whole.
The external auditors reported on adjustment, which was in line with the forecast position and relevant transactions to the Audit Committee and following had been audited by the external auditors.
The written down discussion the Committee considered the accounting to sites and any adjustments proposed were discussed and be appropriate.
74 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The related fee level, both separately and relative to the audit External auditors fee is also considered.
For an analysis of fees paid to both  LLP PwC were appointed as external KPMG LLP and PwC, for audit and non-audit services, see note auditor at the 2015 AGM, following the completion of a 2.1 on page 99.
The non-audit services provided during the competitive audit tender process supervised by the Committee.
year related to tax advisory and compliance work.
Provision of In doing so, the Committee complied with the provisions of these services is not considered to impair the external auditors the Competition & Markets Authority Order.
Our 2016 AGM independence or objectivity.
Notice contains a resolution for the re-appointment of PwC as auditors to the Company.
In making this recommendation, Performance evaluation the Committee took into account, amongst other matters, The Committee undertook a self-assessment process in the independence and objectivity of PwC, the effectiveness of January 2016 to review the Committees performance, the the external audit process and cost.
There are no contractual effectiveness of the external auditor, and the Groups Internal restrictions on the choice of external auditor.
The AGM Notice Audit function.
The Committee is considered to be effective, also contains a resolution to give the directors authority to with members having a good mix of skills and experience to determine the auditors remuneration, which provides a provide an appropriate level of challenge when debating the practical flexibility to the Committee.
reports, statements and findings presented to them.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditor, a Prior to the appointment of PwC, the Committee reviewed particular focus this year has been the appointment of PwC the independence and objectivity of KPMG LLP, which was in 2015.
The Committee considers PwC to have carried confirmed in an independence letter containing information out a high quality audit in the first year since appointment, on procedures providing safeguards established by the external established effective working relationships, and gained a auditor.
Regulation, professional requirements and ethical good understanding of the Groups business.
The Committee standards were taken into account, together with consideration was satisfied with the scope of the external audit, and that of all relationships between the Company and KPMG LLP and PwC demonstrate independence having reviewed all services their staff.
provided to the Group by them.
The Committee believes the Relations with the external auditors are managed through a external audit to be effective.
In relation to Internal Audit, series of meetings and regular discussions and we ensure a during the year, the Committee considered it appropriate for high quality audit by challenging the key areas of the external the resources and operation of Internal Audit to be reviewed in auditors work.
the context of the significant growth of the business in recent years and that there are opportunities for improvement.
At its meeting in February 2016, the Committee reviewed This process has commenced and additional external resource the effectiveness of the external audit process as part of its has been incorporated into the Internal Audit plan for 2016. consideration of the 2015 final audit.
This involved assessing The overall review of the Internal Audit function will be delivery and content against the audit plan for the 2015 year concluded during 2016.
Finally, the evaluation also concluded end audit, including determination of audit risks and significant that the Committee had appropriate terms of reference and areas of judgement, consideration of the performance and had fulfilled its remit in 2015. communication of the audit team, and the quality of reporting, observations, recommendations and insight.
It also included reviewing comprehensive papers from the external auditors, discussing and challenging their conclusions and audit Ralph Findlay judgements and assessing responses from the external auditor.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Lastly, feedback was taken on the effectiveness and conduct 19 February 2016 of the audit from those involved, including feedback from the regional businesses on visits to the regions, which was positive.
The Committee keeps under review its policy which requires the Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business and audit related services, which are treated as pre-approved.
When an approval request is made, the Committee has due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditor is a suitable supplier, and whether there is likely to be any threat to independence and objectivity in the conduct of the audit.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 75 76 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance College Green Godalming Bovis Homes Group PLC | 77
