Corporate governance report Dear Shareholder, 2015 was another significant year for Bovis Homes, as we delivered record levels of profitability and volume and achieved a further improvement in returns, supported by strong land investment and efficient capital management.
Our return on capital employed reached 18.3% and our capital turn was in excess of one times.
The Groups growth strategy remains on track, supported by our approach to governance.
We are well positioned to deliver further Ian Tyler volume growth, during 2016 and beyond, with the long term Chairman objective of improving shareholder returns in a sustainable business.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the success of the Our corporate governance practices were aligned with the latest Company and my task is to ensure that it provides strong version of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2015 and strategic leadership, monitoring the delivery of strategic priorities the Board reviewed its policy on diversity, which says that we will and objectives, with an eye on the principal risks.
In doing so, the always make appointments to the Board based on merit.
Board must uphold the highest standards of integrity and probity I was pleased to welcome Ralph Findlay, CEO of Marstons PLC, and promote effective relationships and communication, not only to the Board as a non-executive director in April 2015.
He took in the boardroom, but throughout the business and externally over as Chairman of the Audit Committee at the 2015 AGM and with stakeholders.
Building trust is important and high standards has already established himself as a valuable Board member.
We of corporate governance underpin this.
Embedded standards and were also pleased that Earl Sibley joined us as Group Finance behaviours enable the Board to function effectively in supporting Director in April 2015, having had previous experience with and monitoring senior management and they follow through the Group.
in the Boards interactions with regional teams and in visits by individual non-executive directors to the regional operations.
I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their strong In turn, the Board expects these standards and behaviours to individual contributions and collective support during 2015 influence and form part of the broader culture of the business, and look forward to a strong performance from the Board driving the right behaviours and helping the operations to during 2016.
John Warren retired at the 2015 AGM and I function properly and effectively.
would like to thank him for his valuable contribution during nine years as a non-executive director and eight years as Audit The Board had a busy year in 2015 and again made several Committee Chairman.
visits to the regions, which provided the opportunity for closer interaction with the regional teams and greater understanding We value dialogue with all our shareholders, institutional of their challenges and concerns.
Progress with delivery of the and retail, and I look forward to meeting more of our major Groups strategy was monitored and it was reviewed, tested and shareholders during the coming year.
Our 2016 AGM will be reaffirmed at the Boards strategy day.
Other regular activities held on 10 May 2016 and you will find the Notice at the end of included monitoring of principal risks, scrutiny of health and this Annual Report.
safety performance, customer satisfaction performance, cost pressures and the delivery of build production.
This report has been approved by the Board and I can confirm that, during 2015, your Company was compliant with the At Board meetings, the non-executive directors were effective in provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the providing constructive challenge and they tested proposals put exception that incentives schemes did not include withholding forward by the executive directors during the year, together with and recovery provisions malus and clawback.
The Company the supporting assumptions.
An internal formal Board evaluation remains compliant with the Code in all other respects and you was carried out at the beginning of 2016, which provided will find further information on the implementation of malus and valuable insights for the future.
Further information is provided clawback in 2016 in the remuneration report.
on page 51, including the objectives we will be pursuing during 2016.
The Committees, likewise, performed effectively during 2015.
Ian Tyler Chairman Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC || 47 47 Corporate governance report 2016 onwards.
Further detail is provided in the remuneration Introduction report.
The current remuneration policy was approved at the This report sets out the Companys compliance with the UK 2014 AGM and the Company will include for such provisions in Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the the policy to be put to shareholders for approval in 2017.
Financial Reporting Council publicly available at www.
uk and also describes how the governance framework, set out in The leadership structure the annex to this report, is applied.
The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for The Board is pleased to report that the Company has, the long-term success of the Group and its strategy, values and throughout 2015, complied with and applied the provisions of governance.
It provides leadership, sets the Groups strategic the UK Corporate Governance Code, as set out below, with objectives and approves and monitors progress with business the exception that the Companys incentive schemes did not plans, budgets and forecasts, applying independent judgment.
include provisions that enable the withholding of payment or The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed and the recovery of sums paid malus and clawback.
The Board has approved annually by the Board and a copy is available on the been satisfied that the majority of performance measures are Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre outcome measures with no forward impact and that the risk of corporate-governance.
circumstances arising in which such provisions may be required is strictly limited.
Intentionally keeping this area under review, The governance structure for 2015 is shown on page 36 of the the Remuneration Committee decided that clawback will apply 2014 Annual report and accounts.
to 2015 annual bonus payments made in 2016 and that malus and clawback will apply to annual bonus and LTIP awards from The governance structure in 2016 is shown below.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Board Responsible for leadership, strategy, values and governance Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Oversees financial Sets and reviews Reviews balance and statements and reporting remuneration policy composition of the Board Monitors internal controls Determines remuneration Maintains focus on Executive Leadership Team and risk management and incentives of the succession planning formerly the GEC executive directors and the Monitors effectiveness Leads recruitment process Bovis Homes Limited Board Chairman of external and internal for the Board Responsible for the operations of the Group auditors Sets performance criteria Recommends for incentive plans appointment of directors West Division board East Division board Responsible for the operational Responsible for the operational management of the West Division management of the East Division Northern region West Midlands East Midlands Eastern region board region board region board board Western region South West Thames Valley Southern region board region board region board board 48 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The Board Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, the Board management.
John Warren retired from the Board at the 2015 comprised the non-executive Chairman, three independent nonAGM.
Jonathan Hill left the Group on 6 March 2015 and Earl Sibley executive and two executive directors.
Ralph Findlay was appointed was appointed Group Finance Director on 16 April 2015. an independent non-executive director on 7 April 2015 and Biographical details for the directors are provided on page 45.
Their with effect from the AGM held on 15 May 2015 was appointed dates of appointment retirement, length of service to the end of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A formal, comprehensive 2015 and attendance at Board meetings in 2015 are and tailored induction was provided for Ralph, which included shown below.
visits to the regional offices, site visits and meetings with senior Tenure in Attendance Name Date of appointment Current role current role at meetings Ian Tyler 29 11 13 Chairman 2 years 8 8 Alastair Lyons 01 10 08 Deputy Chairman 7.25 years 8 8 Chris Browne 01 09 14 Non-executive 1.3 years 8 8 Ralph Findlay 07 04 15 Non-executive 9 months 5 5 John Warren 01 03 06 Non-executive 9 years 4 4 retired 15 05 15 David Ritchie 01 07 02 Chief Executive 7.5 years 8 8 current role 03 07 08 Jonathan Hill 23 08 10 Group Finance Director 4.5 years 2 2 resigned 06 03 15 Earl Sibley 16 04 15 Group Finance Director 9 months 5 5 The Board benefits from a broad range of expertise and experience In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and as permitted by and has a strong blend of skills, which has allowed it to perform the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has authorised effectively and to a high level in 2015 during a period in which any conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are membership has been changing.
The non-executive Chairman brings reviewed annually.
The Board is satisfied that powers to authorise a strong track record of commercial experience in construction and actual and potential conflicts are operating effectively.
infrastructure related industries, which benefit the Group in the ongoing execution of its growth strategy.
Alastair Lyons has a broad Board meetings base of business experience, with a particular focus on mortgage There were eight meetings during 2015.
The Board maintains lending and insurance industries and including chairing listed and reviews a rolling agenda plan, which ensures that all key companies.
Chris Browne brings a strong commercial and operational issues and matters reserved to the Board are discussed at the background from a consumer facing industry and the appointment appropriate time.
The Chairman reviews meeting agendas with the of Ralph Findlay adds strong commercial, financial and general Chief Executive and Company Secretary and the Company Secretary management expertise, again from a consumer facing industry.
maintains a rolling schedule of matters arising which is reviewed at each meeting.
The three non-executive directors have been determined by the Board to be independent in character and judgement with no The Board receives a comprehensive electronic meeting pack a relationships or circumstances likely to affect, or that could appear week in advance of each meeting plus other information required to affect, their judgement.
to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in an atmosphere of open and free flowing discussion and debate, with a All the directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the questioning approach which enables the non-executive directors to forthcoming AGM, in accordance with the Code.
The Board strongly challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by supports all the individual directors re-elections, taking account of the executive directors.
The Division Managing Directors attended the balance of skills and expertise and the performance of the Board the majority of meetings in 2015 and this increases the range of as a whole.
views available to the non-executive directors.
The newly appointed All the directors have service agreements or contracts and the details Chief Operating Officer, Keith Carnegie will be invited to attend all are set out in the approved remuneration policy, which is available at meetings in 2016. www.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 49 Corporate governance report At each Board meeting during 2015: environment, land acquisitions, land sales, analysis of competitors, investor and analyst feedback, and the process for the Chief Executive provided a review of business and current the longer term viability statement.
Topic specific presentations trading performance, recent developments and strategic issues.
were received on the results of an investor perception study the Group Finance Director provided a financial review, and on modern methods of construction and training was including results and latest projections, budgets, forecasts, provided on health and safety practice and governance and Group KPIs, leading market indicators and an analysis of regulatory developments.
share price valuation and movements.
Five meetings were held in London and three were held in the the Board received regular reports covering health and safety, regions, providing further opportunity to interact with local customer satisfaction, investor relations, major shareholdings management teams.
Three regions provided presentations to and litigation.
the Board at these meetings in discussion and question and answer sessions.
One meeting was followed by an evening At particular points in the year, the Board reviewed: meeting with the Group Executive Committee the senior strategy, principal risks and mitigation, financial statements management below the Board and the Board also met its and regulatory announcements, dividend policy and members at other points in the year.
Visits to sites, including facility refinancing.
product viewings, took place in three regions and a strategic updates on large projects.
land site was also visited.
progress with succession planning and organisational The annual strategy day in July provided the Board with the development.
opportunity for an in-depth review of the mid-term strategy for the Group and was preceded by an evening starter session.
the report on the 2014 external independent evaluation of its own performance and the actions arising.
The Chairman also held a meeting with the non-executive directors, without the executives present, during the year.
The Board also reviewed other topics, such as the market The Boards site visit to the Groups Takeley development At the start of October 2015, the Board visited Eastern regions Takeley development in Essex, titled The Ashes.
Located close to the M11, the site offers two, three, four and five bedroom homes in a rural setting, convenient for local living and for commuters to London.
Discussion with sales staff took place in the sales office, covering the local market, sales rates and customer satisfaction, coupled with a viewing of the show homes.
Led by the site manager, a tour of the construction site followed, allowing feedback to be given by site staff on the build programme, production issues and health and safety performance.
On returning to the sales office, a discussion summarising the sites overall performance concluded the visit.
50 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The final report was presented to the Board by Independent Ensuring an effective Board Audit and discussed and an action plan was developed for 2015.
The Board undertook an internal formal evaluation of its own In following this action plan, the Board: performance at the beginning of 2016.
A questionnaire was used to capture views on the functioning of the Board in 2015, including kept its size and structure under review and agreed to do so areas of performance and ongoing effectiveness, composition going forward.
and progress since the 2014 external performance evaluation.
considered improvements to the Boards agenda plan and adopted The Chairman then conducted an interview process, which explored a more dynamic approach.
and expanded on the views expressed, and a draft report was prepared and discussed by the Board.
increased focus on leadership development and executive director succession planning.
The overall conclusion was positive.
The Board had continued to operate effectively as a positive force in 2015 and had maintained kept the availability and use of further information on competitors continuity with the change in its membership.
The Chairman and industry best practice under review.
provided strong and effective leadership and meetings had seen an increasing degree of challenge, with open and free flowing The performance evaluation of the Chairman was led by the discussion facilitating decision making.
A common sense of Senior Independent Director, with input from all other members purpose, strong communication and positive relationships were of the Board.
It was considered that the Board had been effective all maintained and developed.
The broad range of expertise and under the Chairmans leadership with well-planned meetings, experience amongst the non-executive directors remained a appropriate agendas based on a good understanding of the key strength and the size and structure of the Board was kept Companys business model and strategy, and broad effective under review.
Future succession planning would seek to contribution by directors.
Board meetings were held in a conducive maintain and enhance the strengths on the Board.
environment with a strong focus on the important issues and open debate and constructive challenge.
The Chairman had maintained The recommendations, many of which were already under good and effective working relationships with both executive and consideration, were developed into an action plan for 2016. non-executive directors and had spent significant time both on sites An overview Is provided below.
and with the Companys executives and relevant external advisers.
He had also maintained constructive dialogue with the Companys Focus areas Objectives for 2016 principal institutional investors, providing useful feedback to the Boards assessment of the Companys progress.
Culture Oversee a process to refine and develop the Groups culture during a period of growth for the Group.
Board committees The Board is supported by standing Audit, Nomination and Board meetings Continue to improve the Boards Remuneration Committees and their memberships, roles and agenda plan to enhance meeting activities are set out in separate reports: The Audit Committee effectiveness.
report is on pages 73 to 75, the Nomination Committee report is on pages 78 and 79, and the Remuneration Committee report is Succession planning Continue to focus on leadership development and non-executive and on pages 57 to 72.
Each Committee reports to and has terms of executive director succession planning.
reference approved by the Board and the minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to and are reviewed by the Board.
Business models Continue to develop the Boards competitor activity The Audit Committee is chaired by Ralph Findlay, the Remuneration understanding of market trends and developments as they impact the sector Committee is chaired by Alastair Lyons and the Nomination and our customers.
Committee is chaired by Ian Tyler.
The Board completed a performance evaluation of its Committees The Board completed its second external independent performance during early 2016 and all were found to be effective and working evaluation of its own performance towards the end of 2014. well, with all achieving their respective remits.
This was conducted by Independent Audit, who have no other connection with the Company, who undertook a thorough review of Board materials, followed by a confidential interview process which included meetings with the directors, Company Secretary and the Division Managing Directors and the observation of a Board and Committee meetings.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 51 Corporate governance report Training is made available to directors when required and the Governance through the business Chairman is responsible for ensuring that directors continually The Board aims to meet governance best practice where it fits update and refresh their knowledge and skills and familiarity with our business.
Further details are set out below.
with the Company, as appropriate to their role on the Board Amongst matters reserved for the Board are leadership of and on Board Committees.
During 2015 the directors received the Group, approval of strategy and budgets, oversight of training on health and safety practice and governance and operations and performance, capital structure, financial regulatory developments.
reporting, internal controls and approval of major expenditure The Company has an insurance policy in place which insures and transactions.
directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
The Board has approved a written division of responsibilities Information on share capital is provided on page 81. between the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive and the role of the non-executive Deputy Chairman has been Shareholder engagement similarly defined.
The Company has a comprehensive investor relations The Chairman is primarily responsible for: programme, which allows the Chief Executive and Group the effective working of the Board, Finance Director to regularly engage with our major shareholders.
In addition to one-to-one meetings through the taking a leading role in determining the Boards composition year, the Company holds a series of presentations and meetings and structure, and following the announcement of the final and half-yearly results.
ensuring that effective communications are maintained These presentations are made publicly available so that all with shareholders.
shareholders can access them on the Groups website at www.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: The Board reviews feedback on investor relations meetings, the operational management of the Group, visits and presentations, including the matters communicated developing strategic operating plans and presenting them to and discussed.
During 2015, the feedback was positive and the Board, and helpful to the Board and the Chairman held a number of meetings with major shareholders.
the implementation of strategy agreed by the Board.
The Board also values other channels to obtain shareholders The Deputy Chairman supports the Chairman in ensuring that views.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all the Board is effective and constructive relations are maintained, directors are aware of any issues or concerns that major in addition to acting as the Senior Independent Director, in shareholders may have.
In addition, the Deputy Chairman also which capacity he leads the annual performance evaluation the Senior Independent Director is accessible to shareholders.
of the Chairman and provides an additional point of contact for shareholders.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, which this year will be held on 10 May 2016.
The full Board, The Companys Management Paper is subject to regular including all Committee Chairmen, attend and value this Board review.
It contains appropriate controls, authorities meeting as a means of communicating with private investors and procedures across the range of the Groups activities and and encourages their participation.
All shareholders have the includes the authorities and decision making delegated by the opportunity to exercise their right to vote and can appoint Board to management.
proxies if they are unable to attend.
To facilitate this we provide The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary an electronic voting facility.
Shareholders attending the AGM are available to the directors.
All directors have access to the have the opportunity to ask questions relevant to the business Companys professional advisers and can seek independent of the meeting and hear the views of other shareholders before professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice casting their vote.
After the meeting the results of voting on all was sought during the year.
resolutions are published on the Groups website.
52 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance There are a number of elements of the Companys internal control Risk management and internal control and risk management systems that are specifically related to the The Board has responsibility for maintaining and monitoring sound Companys financial reporting process: risk management and internal control systems.
The Boards role includes responsibility for the risk appetite and the identification, there is a well understood management structure which allows management and mitigation of risk.
Risk is a regular agenda item, for clear accountability and an appropriately granular level of which allows the directors to review the risk appetite and principal financial control.
risks and assess the quality of risk management processes and risk the structure is underpinned by documented authority levels mitigation.
In setting its approach, the Board aims to ensure that the for business transactions laid out in the Companys Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed Management Paper.
the process is further supported by process documents for both Monitoring and review forms part of the work undertaken by the internal management reporting and external reporting which Audit Committee and is based principally on reviewing reports stipulates, amongst other things, reporting timetables and the from Internal Audit and from management and covers all material contents of key management reports.
controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and compliance with risk management processes.
The Company maintains computer systems that record financial transactions and whose effectiveness is reviewed by the Internal In reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal Audit function on a regular basis.
Any findings arising from these control and risk management systems, the Board i considered the exercises are reported to the Audit Committee and action is taken, risk appetite and ii reviewed changes in the nature, likelihood and as appropriate.
impact of the principal risks, their mitigation, the controls placed against them and the Companys ability to respond to changes at Control over cash expenditure is key.
The Company maintains three separate stages during the year and iii received reports from tight control in this area through a centralised payment function, the Audit Committee on the operation and effectiveness of the risk regularly maintained authorisation documents and segregation of management and internal controls systems and their integration authorisation accountability.
with strategy and the business model, which included review of the minutes of Committee meetings.
Recommendations for The Company maintains a regular weekly and monthly financial improvements to internal controls were made during the year and reporting cycle, allowing management to assess financial progress.
corrective action was taken, but they did not represent significant This is further supported by a formal budget and monthly control failings or weaknesses.
forecasting process which ensures that there is a robust and recent financial forecast in place at all times against which to The Board has complied with Principle C. 2 of the Code by completing assess performance.
Together with this financial reporting, the a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and it Company requires its Division and regional management teams to has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and report key business issues as part of a monthly regional reporting managing the principal risks, in accordance with the FRCs Guidance pack on a standardised basis.
on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
This process has been in place for the period Finally, there is a process of accounts preparation which ensures under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report that there is an audit trail between the output from the Companys and Accounts and includes compliance with provision C. 2.3.
It is financial reporting system and the financial statements as they are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide prepared for reporting.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Control framework The Company maintains a robust control environment, which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The principal elements of the control environment include regular board meetings, the Division and regional structure, defined operating controls and authorisation limits, an Internal Audit function and a comprehensive financial reporting system.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 53 Corporate governance report 5 Number of directors Annex to corporate governance report An appropriate balance between executive and non-executive Corporate governance policy guidelines directors is maintained.
The number of non-executive directors is decided so as to provide the diversity of skills, ability, These guidelines have been adopted by the Board vision and experience necessary for a sound independent and provide guidance on how corporate governance contribution to the Board and the successful management principles are applied by the Company.
By way of guidance, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, will comprise independent 1 Board membership and balance non-executive directors.
The structure, size and composition of the Board is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that it remains appropriate for 6 Length of appointment the successful direction of business activities.
Consideration is Executive directors are employed on service contracts with given to boardroom diversity and the mix of experience, skills, notice periods which do not exceed one year.
Non-executive ability and vision of executive and non-executive directors by directors service agreements set the length of their the Nomination Committee.
appointments at periods of up to three years and their The Nomination Committee and the Board give regular notice periods up to twelve months.
Their total length of consideration to planning for succession to Board and appointment would not normally exceed nine years from senior management positions, ensuring that appropriate the date of their first AGM election.
management development measures are in place.
The renewal of service agreements after two three year The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Deputy terms is subject to rigorous review and based on annual Chairman also the Senior Independent Director, re-appointment thereafter, with the third term extending until two further independent non-executive directors and the AGM following the ninth anniversary of appointment.
Under the Articles of Association, all directors are subject to 2 Board selection retirement by rotation at the AGM at least once in every The Board receives recommendations on the appointment three years.
New directors appointed by the Board must be re-appointed by shareholders at the next following AGM.
of directors from the Nomination Committee, following an The Board has agreed that, in accordance with the Code, all evaluation of the balance of knowledge, skills, experience directors will offer themselves for re-election at each AGM.
and diversity available on the Board.
This Board committee comprises the independent non-executive directors, the 7 Training Chairman and the Chief Executive and meets as required.
On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive 3 Non-executive director independence tailored induction to business activities, strategy and methods of operating, policies, procedures and management structure.
The non-executive directors are independent in character and Directors receive training to complement their roles on the judgement and free from any business or other relationship Board and Board Committees, as necessary.
which could affect or appear to affect the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration 8 Remuneration by the Board.
The receipt of fair remuneration and being a shareholder is not considered to prejudice independence or The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the policy for executive remuneration and prevent a non-executive director from acting independently.
remuneration for the Chairman, each of the executive 4 Chairman and Chief Executive directors and senior management in accordance with its terms The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and of reference.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors and meets as required.
there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles which has been set out in writing and approved by External remuneration advice appropriate to the size the Board.
It is normal practice for the role of Chairman to be and position of the Company is sought when necessary.
The role of the Deputy Chairman Non-executive director remuneration, excluding that of has also been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
the Chairman, is determined by the Board without their participation.
54 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance 9 Financial information and internal control The review of submissions for Board approval in respect of the Groups annual report and accounts, half-yearly financial report, preliminary statement and other public financial information is the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control and oversees compliance therewith.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors and meets as required.
10 Supply of information Senior management are responsible for providing the Board with appropriate, complete and timely information relevant to the Boards discharge of its responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance of business activities, including significant variances, principal risks and progress with the implementation of strategies.
Directors have reasonable access to senior management to enable them to make further enquiries as they consider in their judgement appropriate.
11 Board procedures and authorities The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary determine the agenda for each Board meeting and papers are circulated in advance so that matters can be properly considered by the directors.
A schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision is maintained.
The Board undertakes annual performance evaluations and a formal external performance evaluation every third year.
12 Relations with shareholders The Board as a whole accepts responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue is maintained with shareholders.
The aim is to ensure that this dialogue is based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
Investors are encouraged to attend the AGM and to vote and participate.
13 Corporate policies The Board ensures that corporate policies and procedures on ethical and corporate social responsibility matters, including sustainability, health and safety and the environment are maintained, monitored and reviewed on a regular basis.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 55 Haversham Gardens Newport 56 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance
