Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Board activities in 2015 Growth Productivity The Groups plans for continued The Board pays close attention to the investment in high growth markets, in Groups operational efficiency and our Tobacco Products and Next Generation programmes are aimed at delivering a Products, is central to the Boards annual globally integrated enterprise with cost agenda, ensuring that growth remains and capital effectiveness.
Activities in 2015 Activities in 2015 Strategy deep dives Consideration of industry trends and the Monitoring the final stages of the roll-out of Delivering growth competitor environment for Tobacco Products the Groups new operating model and global In October 2015, the Board held a and Next Generation Products: IT solution which will ensure standardisation week of meetings in Brazil led by senior and more effective management and use of Reviewing the implementation of the Groups management from the Americas region.
Group data: Strategy in light of evolving global trends, in The Board participated in a comprehensive particular the slower economic recovery and Working through the Audit Committee to review of the Groups Product and Leaf its impact on emerging markets and changing establish and conduct a compressed audit Strategy, including the Must Win sources consumer preferences.
Agreeing key strategic tender process to appoint new Group for high-quality leaf and issues of farmer imperatives to ensure that the Group Strategy Auditors and appointing KPMG LLP as Group sustainability and reviewed the Americas remains relevant and appropriately targets key Auditors in March 2015: regional strategy and its implementation.
growth segments: Reviewing the Groups trade marketing and It also reviewed the Groups combustible Receiving and agreeing to pursue M&A distribution resources, including the proposal product and innovation pipeline at the strategic and tactical opportunities for to leverage the Groups Direct to Store Regional Product Centre in Porto Alegre, growth.
In the tobacco sector this included Distribution DSD networks in the Americas inparticular its process for innovation.
the maintenance of the Groups shareholding by partnering with other FMCG companies of 42% in the enlarged Reynolds American to distribute their products, to achieve further The Board spent a day visiting a contractor Inc. following its purchase of Lorillard Inc. : efficiencies and cost savings: farmer, reviewing all aspects of the leaf the acquisition by the Group of the minority growing and curing business and conducted Regularly reviewing the Groups liquidity, interest shareholding in Souza Cruz S. A. : the a market visit in Rio fide Janeiro.
confirming that the Company was acquisition of TDR d. o. o. which has strong conforming with its financing principles, and For more information on our Group Strategy distribution networks for tobacco products in noting planned refinancing activities for the see pages 89 of our Strategic Report.
Croatia, Bosnia and Serbia: and the acquisition year ahead: of the Blue Nile Cigarette Company Monitoring the Groups IT security threat Limited in Sudan, enhancing the Groups assessment process: manufacturing and distribution capabilities in Reviewing progress on the merger of this market.
In the Next Generation Products the Group Legal and the Corporate and sector, this included the acquisition of the Regulatory Affairs functions to form a CHIC e-cigarette manufacturing business combined Legal and External Affairs function.
in Poland and the conclusion of a vapour products technology-sharing agreement with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, a subsidiary of Reynolds American Inc. which provides a framework for collaboration and mutual cross-licensing of the parties vapour product technologies until the end of 2022: Reviewing operating performance and the continued impact of foreign exchange rates on the Groups financial performance, including measures taken by management tomitigate the foreign exchange risks: Reviewing the quarterly financial performance of the Groups associate companies, Reynolds American Inc. and Imperial Tobacco Canada ITCAN.
52 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Sustainability Winning organisation The Board places considerable emphasis Setting the tone from the top is an on the need for our business to be important part of the Boards role, sustainable for the long term, to meet helping to foster a culture centred the expectations of our stakeholders on our Guiding Principles and which andinform our commitments to society.
Reviewing the new risk management related Activities in 2015 Activities in 2015 requirements set out in the revised UK Receiving updates on the Groups Next Reviewing the results of the Group-wide Corporate Governance Code: reviewing Generation Products business, including a survey of employee engagement undertaken Group-wide and regional risks in the new organisational structure and strategy for in late 2014, where all categories had context of identified growth opportunities.
the Vapour Products and Tobacco Heating improved compared to the 2012 survey and Considering the Groups risk appetite and Products business.
Reviewing performance where, in the majority of categories the Group determining the Groups viability for Financial following the launch of the Vype e-stick and scores were higher than the average for Reporting Council reporting purposes, taking Vype e-pen including the innovation pipeline comparable companies: account of the Companys current position in this area and proposed timelines and Receiving updates on the difficulties of and principal risks: markets for future launches, including the glo attracting and retaining talent and factoring Reviewing future sustainability reporting iFuse Tobacco Heating Product: this into consideration of revised talent and plans to ensure continued focus on priority Monitoring progress made by the Group remuneration policies: topics, namely sustainable agriculture, in securing regulatory approval for its Reviewing the application and continuing corporate conduct and harm reduction.
nicotine inhalation product, Voke, for impact of the Remuneration Policy during Reviewing progress on the Groups activities which a Medicines and Healthcare Products 2015: agreeing proposals for a revised to improve its relationships with its contracted Regulatory Agency licence was received in Policy and consulting with key shareholders farmers in key markets: February 2015: in both early and late 2015 in relation to Monitoring compliance with the Groups Approving Group-wide Vapour Marketing those proposals: Standards of Business Conduct and internal Principles to govern the Groups advertising Reviewing the development of leaders in the controls.
A number of allegations were made and promotion of Vapour Products: Group, in particular activities to drive a hightowards the end of 2015 regarding historic Monitoring the status of the Groups litigation performance leadership culture, including a misconduct in Africa.
This included receiving updates revised performance management system to was aware of and had looked into some of on the class actions in Quebec, Canada develop diverse leaders at all levels and a focus the allegations in the past, given the high against the Groups subsidiary Imperial on external recruitment utilising social media: standards to which we hold ourselves and Tobacco Canada ITCAN and two other Receiving updates on the Groups diversity the number and nature of the allegations of Canadian manufacturers, and the Plaintiffs ambitions with particular focus on gender which the Group is now aware, the Board unsuccessful claim for a Provisional Execution andnationality diversity at senior grades: approved the appointment of an external order in July: the Plaintiffs successful law firm to conduct a full investigation and Reviewing detailed succession planning at application for security for costs in October instructed that it be kept updated on the Board level, including Executive Director and and preparations for ITCANs appeal of the progress and findings of this investigation.
Management Board succession planning and substantive judgment.
Receiving updates on monitoring the progress of Management legacy litigation in relation to pollution in the Board development plans: US Fox River and Kalamazoo River and the Reviewing the performance of the Executive settlement of asbestos-related claims made Directors and Management Board members: against a former US subsidiary of the Groups Considering Non-Executive Director Canadian business Flintkote : appointments proposed by the Nominations Reviewing the Groups regulatory strategy Committee and appointing three new in the context of the current regulatory Non-Executive Directors and reviewing landscape, including plain packaging and refreshing the composition of proposals within the EU and their potential Board Committees.
implications for the business, including the Groups legal challenge to the UK Governments proposed new packaging rules: British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 53
