BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee report The Committee and its membership The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for monitoring all aspects of financial reporting and management of risk.
The Committees full terms of reference, reviewed and updated during the year, are available on the Companys website, or from the Company Secretary on request.
Committee members Member since Giles Kerr Committee Chairman 6 November 2007 Ian Much 1 November 2010 Richard Wohanka 1 January 2013 There were three Committee meetings during the year.
Details Dear Shareholder, of attendance can be found on page 45.
50 The Audit Committees key objectives are to provide Governance effective governance over the Groups financial Committee members qualifications activities.
It reviews and enhances integrity of the The Committees composition was reviewed during the year Groups internal controls, its financial reporting and and the Board is satisfied that the current members have the way the Group assesses, manages and reports the breadth of knowledge and experience necessary to risk and compliance as well as the performance effectively fulfil the Committees responsibilities.
Giles Kerr has a strong financial background, he is a Fellow of the of both the internal and external audit functions.
Institute of Chartered Accountants and Director of Finance A significant part of the Committees time is spent on at Oxford University.
As required by the Code, he is considered these areas, and the highly regulated environment to have the necessary significant recent and relevant financial in which the Company operates only enhances the experience to qualify him to be the Chairman of the Committee.
need to ensure our processes remain fit for purpose.
He receives additional remuneration to compensate him for The 2014 version of the Corporate Governance his additional responsibilities, as set out on page 75.
Other members bring substantial experience in international Code the Code which will apply to next years business areas as well as financial expertise to the deliberations annual report, will further strengthen the role of of the Committee.
In particular Richard Wohanka has more the Committee.
The Committee already puts focus than 20 years experience in the finance and asset management on areas subject to change in the Code, such as industry.
More information is given in the directors biographies the robust assessment of principal risks and how on pages 38 and 39. these are managed and mitigated as well as internal Committee meetings control systems.
Only members of the Audit Committee are entitled to attend During the year we have spent more time building meetings, however the CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller, on our understanding of the risk management Internal Auditor and Corporate Risk and Compliance Officer processes and reviewing the risks.
The whole also normally attend meetings.
The external auditor always risk management process has been thoroughly attends Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
reviewed and there have been changes in the Risk Management Committee following this review.
Time spent by the Committee during the year The Board, after taking advice from the Audit Internal audit 13% Committee, confirmed that the Annual Report External audit and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced inc. non-audit services 19% Financial reporting 21% and understandable and provides the information Tax 10% necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Risk management and compliance position and performance, business model inc. whistleblowing 26% and strategy.
Governance policy other 11% The following report sets out the activities of the Committee over the past year and how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Giles Kerr Chairman of the Audit Committee BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Activities A summary of matters considered at the Committee meetings since the last Annual Report is shown.
Each area of review is explained in further detail within this report: Area of review Activities undertaken Financial reporting Review of the Groups half year and full year results Consideration of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable Review of external auditor reports on the half year and full year results Consideration of significant accounting issues as detailed on the following page Review of prospective changes in accounting standards and their potential impact Review of trading updates issued by the Group and amendments thereto 51 Assessment of the going concern basis of preparation for the financial statements and considering whether there were any material uncertainties to the Groups ability Governance to continue to adopt this basis over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements Current and deferred tax External auditor Review of External Auditor independence Review of the scope, nature and resource planning for half year and full year audits Approval of external auditor fees Review and approval where required of use of Auditors for non-audit work Risk management and internal control Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud, anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures Review of enhanced compliance systems and policies Review of the results of internal compliance monitoring and auditing Review of the Groups whistle-blowing policy Review of the Groups tax affairs Review of internal investigations and Internal Investigations Policy Internal audit Review of the integration of the acquisition made in 2015 so far as it relates to key controls Review of the Internal Auditors work plan Review of Internal Audit reports produced throughout the year Review of structure and resources of the Internal Audit group Committee governance Review and amendment of Committee terms of reference Externally facilitated effectiveness review balanced and understandable.
As part of this review it Financial reporting discusses the audit findings and Auditors Report with The detailed monitoring of the integrity of the annual and management and the External Auditor and considers half year results is a key role of the Committee and includes significant judgments and issues contained in them as a review of the significant financial reporting judgments set out below.
Following this discussion the Chairman of the contained in them with the aim of ensuring that they present Committee reports the results of its review to the full Board.
a fair and balanced view of the Company and comply fully The External Auditor meets with the non-executive directors with the relevant statutes and accounting standards.
Where in the absence of management at least twice a year, when requested by the Board, the Committee will advise on whether, the half and full year results are discussed.
taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee report continued The Committee has a formal policy for approving the use Significant accounting matters of the auditor for non-audit work detailing areas where the The Committee considered the following key accounting auditors may not be used, areas where they may be used issues, judgments and disclosures during the course of subject to the agreement of the Committee and areas where the year: prior approval is not required.
Areas where prior approval is not Carrying value of Goodwill and Intangible Assets: required include audit-related services as specified in the APB The Committee received and critically reviewed a report Ethical Standards for Auditors and other services, that are from management setting out the approach to and results routine in nature, where the fee is not significant in the context of impairment testing in accordance with IAS 36.
The report of the audit fee and where the conduct of such services will covered all asset classes, with a particular focus on goodwill not adversely impact auditor independence or objectivity.
and intangible assets as further disclosed in note 12 and The Committee receives a written annual report from the valuation methodology including discount rates, management summarising the fees paid to the auditors for assumed growth rates across and sensitivity analysis non-audit work and whether such services were pre-approved for these asset classes or specifically approved by the Committee.
Details of the 52 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities: amounts paid to the external auditor for non-audit services Governance The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of deferred are set out below.
tax asset recognition and the movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year.
This included the Audit Committee approval Task Fees movements arising from the Groups acquisition and the 000 assumptions made in setting up the deferred tax liability Pre-approval required: on acquired intangibles No US tax compliance services 256 Others Acquisition accounting: The Group completed the acquisition of PneumRx during the year.
The Committee discussed the Total fees paid to the Companys auditor, KPMG, are shown key assumptions and judgments applied by management in note 6 on page 99.
The Committee believes that the use of in satisfying the requirements of IFRS 3 and reviewed KPMG was appropriate and efficient in the circumstances valuation reports prepared by an independent third party and that independence was preserved as a partner other including valuation of the contingent consideration.
Note 32 than the audit partner was responsible for the work and the contains further details of acquisition accounting fees paid were insignificant in the context of the size of KPMG Presentation format of Consolidated Income Statement: as a whole.
The Groups Consolidated Income Statement on page 83 Each year, the Committee considers the reappointment of has, for a number of years, been prepared using a three the external auditor and makes a recommendation to the column format for each financial year.
As part of this process, the Committee also looks at reviews the appropriateness of this disclosure on an annual the need for the rotation of the audit partner and assesses basis and did so once again this year the auditors independence.
Richard Broadbelt has been audit engagement partner as from the year ended 31 March 2014.
Other matters: During the course of the year, the Committee KPMG have been the Groups sole external auditors since the received updates from management on Group corporate Company listed in 1995 and the audit contract has not been structure, tax strategy, the adoption of new accounting put out to tender since their appointment.
The Committee standards and the potential impact of future accounting reviews annually whether it is an appropriate time to standards.
In particular, the Committee discussed the undertake an external audit tender and this year, taking into potential impacts of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts account the complexity of the business, the speed that with Customers.
changes continue to take place and the services offered by KPMG and their independence, as well as guidance issued Review of external auditor effectiveness, by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, the Committee independence and appointment concluded that it would not be in the Companys interests to commence a tender process.
Following this review, which The Committee reviews the overall performance of the included considering auditor performance and independence, auditor annually and approves its terms of engagement the Board recommends the reappointment of KPMG as and remuneration.
The Committee discussed and agreed external auditor, and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors proposed work plan prior to the commencement the auditors remuneration.
of the audit of the results for the year to 31 March 2015 and also reviews the non-audit work carried out by the auditor Having regard to the transitional arrangements under the new to ensure that such services do not impair its independence EU Audit reform framework and the Competition & Markets or objectivity.
The external auditor provided a report Authoritys Order, the Company still intends to consider demonstrating how their independence and objectivity external audit tender, at the latest, nearer the time of the is maintained when providing non-audit services.
next audit partner rotation, currently scheduled for 2018.
The Company may however put the audit out for tender at any time before this date.
The Committee will continue to monitor the BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 consultations regarding how the EU Regulation will be provide direct oversight.
The Leadership Team, therefore, sets implemented in the UK, and will comply with any new policy and oversees any investigations required with respect applicable requirements.
It also assists in the definition and assessment and response to compliance monitoring and auditing and the results are reported to the Audit Committee Risk management and internal control alongside the risk management report.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Additional details of risk management and principal risks Group maintains an adequate system of internal control that may affect the business are given on pages 33 to 36 in and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the detailed monitoring of the risk management process and Whistle-blowing internal control effectiveness and reports to the Board on In line with best practice, the Group supports an independent its findings twice-yearly.
In particular, the Committees review and confidential whistle-blowing procedure and the focuses on financial, operational, healthcare law compliance Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements 53 and risk management controls for the year under review and under which employees may raise concerns about possible Governance up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
improprieties in matters of financial performance or other Such a system is designed to manage appropriately rather matters are operating effectively and that appropriate than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, follow-up action takes place.
Included within the Employee and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Code of Conduct are details of the Groups whistle-blowing against material misstatement or loss.
policy and displays at each site give details of what employees should do if they have concerns regarding any aspect of the The Committee discharges its risk management duties business.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns using a combination of reports from management, Internal without fear of recrimination and an independent telephone Audit and the external auditor.
A risk management reporting line is available should staff wish to use it.
The arrangements structure has been in place throughout the year and up were reviewed by the Committee during the year and were to the date of approval of the financial statements and found to be operating effectively.
is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with the Code.
During the year, a thorough review of the risk UK Bribery Act management reporting structure took place and changes The Group has continued to operate its anti-bribery and made to enhance the process.
anti-corruption policy introduced in 2010 in response to The Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and including the UK Bribery Act 2010.
This has included the conduct of employees from the appropriate sections of the business, due diligence on new key business partners who may act reviews risk throughout the business.
The membership of on behalf of the Group in higher risk areas of business.
the Committee was considered as part of the review and Enhancements were made to the review process during some changes made.
The Risk Committee maintains a risk the year to further strengthen our approach.
management plan that is designed to identify risks, assess the probability of those risks occurring, the impact should Internal audit they occur, how such risks are being appropriately mitigated The Committee monitored and reviewed the work of Internal and monitored and the actions and individuals responsible Audit throughout the year.
The annual internal audit plan was for delivering the mitigations.
In depth analysis of key risks approved by the Committee at the start of the year and any is undertaken periodically to ensure a degree of independent subsequent changes to that plan have also been approved assessment of the operational application of the risk by the Committee.
The internal audit plan focuses on financial management process and to seek to identify opportunities controls and compliance with healthcare law.
The work to apply alternative or enhanced risk mitigation strategies.
carried out by Internal Audit did not identify any material The Committee continues to monitor this process including weaknesses in internal controls but included proposals a consideration of what comprises an acceptable level of to enhance control procedures.
The Committee monitors risk in key areas and the optimal mitigation strategy, having managements responses to ensure that control improvements regard to the costs, timelines and likelihood of success of are instigated on a timely basis.
The internal audit function is the mitigation options.
The Committee reports its findings supported by PwC under the direction of the Audit Committee.
Historically, the Group had a Compliance Steering Committee, Committee evaluation which was responsible for maintaining and overseeing a system to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all As part of corporate governance, the review of the Committee applicable laws including US Federal and State requirements and its effectiveness was externally facilitated this year.
The that relate to the commercial operations of the Group, results and recommendations for improvement were reported including its US sales and marketing teams.
The Committee was found to be functioning well, importance of compliance, a change was made during the with an effective reporting relationship with the Board and year to move this responsibility to the Leadership Team to providing a good balance between in-depth assessment, diagnosis and analysis and a clear practical approach.
