Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Leadership and effectiveness Governance framework The Board Board programme The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders of the Company The Board has a comprehensive annual programme of meetings for its performance and for the Groups strategic direction, its values to monitor and review the Groups strategy across all the elements and its governance.
It provides the leadership necessary for the Group of the Groups business model.
The key activities of the Board in to meet its performance objectives within arobust framework of 2015, grouped under the Groups four strategy pillars of Growth, internal controls.
Productivity, Sustainability and Winning Organisation, are detailed onpages 5253.
The Boards strategic priorities for 2016 are identified Board responsibilities: within the key performance indicators set out in our Strategic Report Group strategy.
Risk management and internal control.
The Board devotes considerable attention to Group Corporate Group policies.
Governance, including internal control and compliance issues.
It receives verbal updates from the Chairmen of the Audit, Board succession plans.
Remuneration and CSR Committees following each Committee meeting and updates from the Nominations Committee on a Board Committees periodic basis, where appropriate.
Copies of the minutes of the The Board has four principal Board Committees, listed below, to Audit and CSRCommittees are circulated to all members of the which it has delegated certain responsibilities.
With effect from 1 January 2016, copies of the minutes of and activities of these Committees are described in their individual all Committees redacted where necessary will be made available reports in this section.
Each Committee has its own terms of reference, toall Directors.
com governance, which are reviewed and updated regularly, most recently with effect from September 2015.
Audit CSR Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee page 58 page 64 page 66 page 92 Management Board Next Generation Products Governance The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, is Until September 2015, the Board of British American Tobacco NGP responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Groups Limited, a Group subsidiary, was exclusively responsible for the strategy and policies set by the Board, and for creating the framework strategic oversight and governance of the Next Generation Products for the day-to-day operation of the Groups operating subsidiaries.
This facilitated a flexible and proactive approach to the early Its other members comprise the Finance Director and 11 senior stages of building this new category.
As the Next Generation Products Group executives, whose biographies are detailed on pages 5051. business has developed and as non-combustible tobacco product Neil Withington, General Counsel, retired from the Management development has progressed and become more integrated with the Board with effect from 30 April 2015.
Jerome Abelman was rest of the Group, the separation of its management and strategic appointed to the combined role of Director, Legal & External Affairs oversight from that of the combustible tobacco business is no longer and General Counsel with effect from 1 May 2015. required.
With effect from October 2015, all matters relating to the Next Generation Products business now also fall within the remit Principal Management Board role: of the Management Board.
The corporate structure of the Next Developing Group strategy for Ensuring Group, regional and Generation Products business is not affected by this change.
Tobacco Products and Next functional strategies and resources Generation Products for approval areeffective and aligned.
Monitoring Group operating Overseeing the management and performance.
Leadership roles and responsibilities Leadership Oversight Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors NEDs Senior Independent Director SID Leadership of the Board.
Overall responsibility for Oversee Group strategy.
Leads review of Chairmans Groupperformance.
Presides at Board in Chairmans Sets Board agenda.
Enables planning and execution Interfaces with shareholders.
Bring an external perspective and ofobjectives and strategies.
effective challenge to the Board.
Ensures effective shareholder Stewardship of Group assets.
Available to meet with major engagement.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 47
