Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Board effectiveness Balance of Non-Executive Directors Conflicts of interest Balance and diversity and Executive Directors The Board has formal procedures for Our Non-Executive Directors come from managing conflicts of interest.
Directors are broad industry and professional backgrounds, required to give advance notice of any conflict with varied experience and expertise issues to the Company Secretary.
These are aligned to the needs of our business.
considered either at the next Board meeting Short biographies of the Directors are set out or, if the timing requires it, at a meeting of in this section on pages 4849.
In 2015 over the Boards Conflicts Committee.
Each year, 30% of our Board was female.
the Board also considers afresh all previously The Board appreciates the benefit of diversity authorised situational conflicts.
Directors are in all its forms, within its own membership excluded from the quorum and vote in and at all levels of the Group.
The Board respect of any matters in which they have promotes diversity and encourages initiatives an interest.
Chairman 1 Independent Nonto improve gender diversity in senior Executive Directors 10 Executive Directors 2 management roles.
Our Strategic Report Information and professional contains details of our diversity policy, development including the proportion of women in our Board induction Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors total workforce and in senior management, On joining the Board, all Directors receive on pages 1819. a full induction.
Non-Executive Directors Independence and also receive a full programme of briefings on all areas of the Companys business from conflicts of interest the Executive Directors, members of the Independence Management Board, the Company Secretary The Board considers all Non-Executive and other senior executives.
Directors to be independent, as they are free Sue Farr, Pedro Malan and Dimitri from any business or other relationships that Panayotopoulos received a comprehensive could interfere materially with, or appear to induction in 2015 including briefings covering affect, their judgement.
the Groups Strategy, its functions including 15 years 6 79 years 2 Marketing and Next Generation Products, 57 years 3 statutory reporting cycle, Group Treasury, IT strategy and legal and regulatory issues.
They, along with the rest of the Board, also had Gender split of Directors the opportunity to visit the Groups Regional Product Centre in Brazil.
A visit to a factory is planned for 2016 to complete their induction.
Conflicts of interest in 2015 Two particular issues of potential conflicts of interest were considered in 2015 in connection with the decision to bring proceedings against PwC and the resulting tender process for new auditors.
The Board reconsidered whether or not it should re-authorise any situational conflict which had already arisen or which could arise for each of Kieran Poynter and Christine Morin-Postel, both of whom had previously advised of separate circumstances which could be considered to have impacted their independence.
The issue arose in relation to discussions on Male 9 Female 4 whether or not to pursue proceedings against PwC in relation to potential claims the Group has against the French company Sequana SA, in respect of the Groups exposure to clean-up Nationality of Directors costs for pollution in the Lower Fox River, Wisconsin.
Christine Morin-Postel was a nonexecutive director of a shareholder in Sequana SA from 15 April 2009 until 29 May 2012, a time when the issues in dispute may have taken place.
In addition, Kieran Poynter was Senior Partner at PwC during the period in which it was auditing the accounts of the third party connected with the proceedings.
Neither Christine Morin-Postel nor Kieran Poynter had any personal involvement in or knowledge of the matters underlying the dispute.
After careful consideration, the Board authorised both potential situational conflicts.
Both Kieran Poynter and Christine Morin-Postel recused themselves from the Board discussion as to whether or not proceedings would be pursued against PwC.
The Board also decided that neither Director was required to recuse him or herself from any subsequent discussions relating to the consequences of the Boards decision to bring proceedings against PwC.
As a consequence, both Kieran Poynter and Christine Morin-Postel, both members of the Audit Committee, Brazilian 2 Dutch 1 Irish 2 played a full role in the audit tender process which led to the appointment of KPMG LLP as the British 4 French 1 US 1 Groups Auditors.
Canadian 1 Greek 1 54 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Training and development The AGM is an opportunity for further The Board also receives reports at each shareholder engagement and for the meeting on any changes to the holdings Non-Executive Directors are encouraged Chairman to explain the Companys progress of the Companys main institutional to attend meetings of the Groups regional and, along with other members of the Board, shareholders.
The Chairman also comments Audit and Corporate and Social Responsibility to answer any questions.
All Directors attend, on any meetings he has had with shareholders Committees to gain a better understanding unless illness or pressing commitments allowing the Board to discuss the key points of the Groups regional and central functions prevent them.
All Directors attended the AGM they have raised.
and are also invited to attend a market visit in 2015.
Details of our 2016 AGM are set out alongside a Regional Director to see the Board evaluation in the other corporate disclosures section.
Groups business on the ground.
In 2015, Evaluation process a number of Non-Executive Directors Annual investor relations programme visited Turkey where they discussed the The performance and effectiveness of the A full programme of engagement with local challenges being faced by the Group.
Board, its Committees, the Executive and shareholders, potential investors and analysts, In addition, in April 2015 a number of NonNon-Executive Directors and the Chairman in the UK and overseas, is undertaken each Executive Directors attended a training session have again been assessed internally, using year by the Head of Investor Relations, often on the new approach to brand development questionnaires produced with the assistance accompanied by one or more Executive being applied across the Groups Global of the online governance assessment service, Directors.
Every two years, combined investor Drive Brands.
For each question, Directors meetings are held over two days with the were requested to rank the Board against The Board and its Committees receive Management Board also in attendance.
They also had the regular briefings on legal and regulatory This years investor roadshow was held opportunity to provide specific comments.
In 2015, the Board reviewed in Bucharest, Romania, and all members the revised requirements for audit tenders of the Management Board gave detailed Constructive feedback and the appointment of auditors and presentations covering the current status and Reports were prepared by the Company the new regulatory requirements for issues in Marketing, Regulation, Operations, Secretary for the Board and each Board assessing risk appetite and for developing and Research and Development, as well as Committee on the results of the evaluation.
In addition, the Chairman received reports from the Company Secretary on the The Chairman meets each Non-Executive In 2015, as part of the annual investors performance of each of the Executive and Director individually, in the latter part of each relations programme, meetings were also Non-Executive Directors.
A report on the year, to discuss their individual training and held with institutional shareholders in 17 Chairmans own performance was prepared development plans.
In terms for the Senior Independent Director.
of percentage shareholding, the Company Shareholder engagement Individual feedback was given by the engaged with the owners of the majority The Chairman and the Executive Directors Chairman to all Board members, and by the of its shares.
Regular investor presentations are committed to open and transparent Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
were also given and these together with dialogue with shareholders.
In early 2015, the roadshow and results presentations The results of the evaluation show that both the Chairman and the Chairman of the are all published on www.
the Board continues to function very well Remuneration Committee met a number All results presentations are also available to and each of its Committees continue of key shareholders to engage further in shareholders by webcast.
to be efficient and effective.
All Board relation to the Groups Remuneration Policy.
members are considered to be making an In addition, there is a micro site on The Board decided, following engagement, effective contribution to the Board and www.
com for debt investors, with that it would not submit changes to the Board discussions.
comprehensive bondholder information on Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGM.
credit ratings, debt facilities, outstanding That feedback has, however, led to revised A summary of the key points arising from the bonds and maturity profiles.
proposals and subsequent further consultation evaluation, our progress against 2015 action with shareholders in late 2015.
Input from points and proposed actions for 2016, is set Board reporting on shareholder views shareholders has been reflected in the final out on pages 5657.
Twice a year, the Head of Investor Relations Policy proposals being submitted to the AGM reports to the Board, identifying key issues For disclosures required by paragraph in 2016. raised by institutional shareholders as well as 7.2.
6of the Disclosure and Transparency rulesand the Companies Act 2006 see The Chairman also meets significant a commentary on share price performance.
the other corporate disclosures section on shareholders and, during the year, held eight Many of the same issues have been raised by pages 113119. personal meetings with major investors.
shareholders this year, including the impact He also met with the Investment Association, of foreign exchange rates, industry volume to discuss the introduction of their Board declines, industry pricing, the rise of the valueConfidence index.
for-money segment, and the slowing down of emerging market economies.
In addition, the The Senior Independent Director and other regulatory challenges facing the Group such Non-Executive Directors are also available to as plain packaging in Australia and the UK as meet with major shareholders on request.
well as the Groups significant M&A activity have also been areas of interest.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 55 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Board effectiveness continued Board evaluation 2015 Leadership Oversight Meetings Good discussion about the Companys NEDs demonstrate a willingness to Well managed in terms of scope, performance with the right degree understand the business in depth complexity, efficiency and time ofchallenge on the performance of management thebusiness Thorough documentation Findings Findings Findings The Board continues to have a clear The Board has effective oversight of the The annual Board programme continues to understanding of the Groups business and business and a good understanding of the be comprehensive with all key issues being the environment in which it operates.
Papers are of a high quality with very thorough documentation.
Strategy is continually reviewed with The Groups Audit and Corporate and Social management and its focus refined as Responsibility Committee framework, and Meetings enable good discussion about the necessary.
There is an excellent balance risks monitored by the Board in this context, Companys results with the right degree of between the long and short-term views in continues to work well.
Group performance against a range of Views are presented clearly.
Meeting times There is a good understanding of the risks to measures was reported to the Board by the may be extended and discussions often the business, including reputational risks.
Chief Executive and the Finance Director in continue over dinner, without management regular Board updates.
being present, to allow full and The continuing importance and the value of frank discussion.
the market visits, particularly for the NonAction for 2016 Executive Directors, was rated highly although Action for 2016 To provide further context for Board as a global organisation it is recognised that discussions, more regular deep dives into the Committee memberships and the scheduling not all Regions can be covered each year.
performance and published strategies of the of Committee meetings will be reviewed The Executive Directors and senior Groups key competitors will be scheduled.
during 2016, with a view to maximising the management are well regarded.
effectiveness of each Committee, and of the More regular reviews of shareholder and Board, within the overall time allocated for Action for 2016 media views of the Company will be sought each meeting schedule.
directly by the Board to help challenge the Continue to ensure that the Board receives Boards assumptions.
Non-Executive Director-only discussions timely briefings on the development and have been particularly valuable during 2015 progress of strategy and on the challenges Progress against 2015 actions and these will continue to be scheduled and opportunities facing the sector.
The Board reviewed detailed proposals on during 2016.
Earlier involvement in strategy development defining and setting the Groups risk appetite could allow more input from the Board, in Progress against 2015 actions and considered the viability of its business particular around different scenarios and model relative to its principal risks.
Non-Executive Directors received regular alternative strategic proposals.
functional briefings on the Next Generation Market visits conducted during the year allow Products business, M&A and litigation matters Progress against 2015 actions senior managers greater access to Nonduring 2015, and briefings on operational Executive Directors and vice versa, increasing To assist the Non-Executive Directors in and regional issues during the market visit to the Boards confidence that effective oversight understanding fully the challenges and Turkey and the Strategy meeting in Brazil.
and a detailed line of sight is prevalent opportunities facing the Group, the annual throughout the organisation.
Strategy meeting was held in Brazil where the Board received presentations on leaf and product issues, discussed regional issues with senior management and visited a tobacco farm and the Regional Product Centre.
Additional Board training sessions were held Collective Board effectiveness on the Groups Brand Building activity and Collective decision-making the Next Generation Products businesses The Chairman seeks a consensus at Board meetings but, if necessary, decisions are taken by which provided further opportunities for majority.
If any Director has concerns on any issues that cannot be resolved, such concerns are Board interaction with senior managers noted in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2015. in the Marketing and Next Generation Products functions.
When required, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet prior to Board meetings and without the Executive Directors present.
The Executive and the Non-Executive Directors also meet annually, led by the Senior Independent Director and without the Chairman present, in order to discuss the Chairmans performance.
56 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Support Composition Working together The administrative and secretariat The approach to succession planning Working well together as a group support is first class and much and the oversight exercised by the Cohesion and active participation of all appreciated Boardrepresents very best practice Findings Findings Findings The Board continues to receive good support The addition of new Non-Executive Directors The Chairman creates a culture of openness, from management and the secretariat.
with branding and marketing experience respect and trust and creates opportunities All Non-Executive Directors appreciate the is seen as a real plus given the Groups for discussions with the Non-Executive level of training and support they receive in operations in the FMCG sector.
Difficult discussions with regards to the The Board has broad and diverse skills, impact of the current Remuneration Policy As mentioned on page 55, the Chairman experience and talent.
The Board mix meets on recruitment and employee relations were meets each Non-Executive Director current and future needs and benefits from handled sensitively.
individually, each year, to discuss their the right mix of personalities and styles.
The Chief Executive and the Chairman have The Board also deals with transition and a good working relationship: in addition, the long-term planning well.
Action for 2016 Board works within a consensus position, Action for 2016 Regular, relevant training on legal duties and once established.
corporate governance will continue to be The succession needs of specific Committees, The change of auditor was noted as being an provided, for example on the new Market as opposed to the Board as a whole, will be example of a united Board working well and Abuse Regulations.
afocus area in 2016. being effective to achieve a desired outcome Progress against 2015 actions The appointment of Non-Executive Directors in a very tight timeframe.
with diverse skills, nationalities and gender All new Non-Executive Directors completed The Directors scored each other highly on will continue to support the Groups diversity a detailed induction covering all aspects of teamwork and relationships in the Director and strategy ambitions, particularly in light of the business where they have been able to 360-degree review.
the retirement of one female Non-Executive meet all of the Management Board members Action for 2016 Director in 2016. and Heads of Function.
The final element, Ensure that market visits and opportunities Succession contingency plans will be kept afactory visit, is planned for 2016. toengage with senior management continue under regular review.
Training sessions for the Board have been as these not only give confidence to the held on brand building activity and on Progress against 2015 actions Board that strategy implementation is aligned, the development of the Next Generation The Board refreshment exercise undertaken it also provides context for succession Products business.
in 2014 and early 2015 culminated in the planning discussions.
appointment of three new Non-Executive Progress against 2015 actions Directors in February 2015.
Each of the new appointees brings identified skills to the In addition to the opportunities to meet Board, whether consumer goods marketing senior managers provided by the market visit experience or business and geopolitical skills.
to Turkey and the Strategy meeting in Brazil, the Board budget meeting in December was also attended by all members of the Management Board.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 57
