strategic report key performance indicators NET REVENUE GROWTH Definition Why we measure Performance Net revenue excludes the impact of foreign This measure reflects our performance Net revenue declined 0.6%, primarily exchange rate movements.
in terms of our ability to participate in our reflecting the challenging conditions in GB.
markets effectively and to raise prices and or grow volume sold.
EBITA MARGIN Definition Why we measure Performance The basis point movement in operating Improving operating margin is a key focus EBITA margin was 13.2%, an improvement profit before exceptional items, interest, of the business and measures our ability to of 100bps.
This reflects our disciplined tax and acquisition-related amortisation, drive a positive mix and eliminate approach to cost management, given the divided by net sales, after excluding the unnecessary cost.
EBITA is preferred challenging market conditions.
impact of exchange rate movements.
ahead of EBIT to allow for the impact of fair value amortisation that is generated when acquisitions are made.
EBITA Definition Why we measure Performance Earnings before exceptional items, interest, EBITA measures the operating profit for the EBITA increased to 171.6m, an group.
This is primarily as a result of the disciplined cost management of the group underpinning profitability.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Definition Why we measure Performance Adjusted earnings before exceptional items, Earnings per share reflects the profitability Adjusted earnings per share was 46.3p, up interest, tax and amortisation specifically of the business and how effectively we 11%, reflecting the growth in EBITA of 7.1% related to fair value adjustments generated finance our balance sheet.
It is a key and the benefit of a reduction of 3.2m in from acquisitions divided by the weighted measure for our shareholders.
average number of shares in issue.
For reward purposes this measure is further adjusted for the impact of exchange rates and other factors not controlled by management, to ensure focus on our underlying performance drivers.
12 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements other information strategic report key performance indicators continued FREE CASH FLOW Definition Why we measure Performance Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow Free cash flow is a key indicator of the Free cash flow was 89.3m, an increase of excluding movements in borrowings, financial management of the business and 0.4% on last year.
The improvement in EBIT dividend payments, exceptional and other reflects the cash generated by the business and working capital was largely offset by an items and proceeds from the share to fund payments to our shareholders and increase in other spend, including the timing placement in July 2015. acquisitions.
of tax payments and the purchase of shares to satisfy share incentive schemes.
RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL ROIC Definition Why we measure Performance Profit before finance charges and exceptional Return on invested capital ROIC is used Return on invested capital ROIC was items divided by average invested capital.
by management to assess the return 26.2%, an increase of 130bps.
Invested capital comprises net assets obtained from the groups asset base.
aggregated with exceptional restructuring Improving ROIC builds financial strength to costs and goodwill at the date of transition to enable us to attain our financial objectives.
IFRS, excluding post-employment liabilities and net borrowings.
making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 13
