Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Board of Directors Richard Burrows Christine Morin-Postel Nicandro Durante Ben Stevens Chairman 70 Senior Independent Director 69 Chief Executive 59 Finance Director 56 Nationality: Irish Nationality: French Nationality: Brazilian Italian Nationality: British Position: Chairman since November Position: Senior Independent Director Position: Chief Executive since 2011.
Position: Finance Director since 2008. since 2013: Non-Executive Director since 2009: Non-Executive Director since Key appointments: Non-Executive Key appointments: Noexternal 2007: Chair of the Audit Committee and September 2009: Chairman of the Director and member of the appointments.
member of the Nominations and Nominations Committee.
Nomination and Remuneration Remuneration Committees.
Skills and experience: Ben joined Key appointments: NED and member Committees of Reckitt Benckiser theGroup in 1990 and has broad Key appointments: NED and member of the Remuneration and Nominations Group plc.
international experience spanning of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees of Rentokil Initial plc: Skills and experience: Nicandro has both senior finance and general Committee of Groupe Bruxelles Lambert Supervisory Board member, member extensive leadership skills developed management roles.
He was Head of S. A. : NED and Chair of the Nomination of the Audit Committee and Chairman invarious senior international roles Merger Integration following the and Remuneration Committee of of the Remuneration Committee at within the Group.
He joined Souza merger with Rothmans and Chairman Hightech Payment Systems S. A. : Carlsberg A S. Member of the Investment Committee Cruz in Brazil in 1981, rising to become and Managing Director of both Skills and experience: Richard brings President of that company.
Nicandro Pakistan Tobacco Company and British of Capmezzanine 2 private equity fund.
considerable consumer goods and joined the Management Board in American Tobacco Russia.
Ben was Skills and experience: Christine has international business experience to 2006as Regional Director for the appointed to the Management Board extensive international board experience the Board, having been Chief Executive Africa and Middle East region and in 2001 as Development Director and and has held a number ofsenior of Irish Distillers and Co-Chief joined the Board in 2008 as Chief became Director, Europe, in 2004. management positions, including Chief Executive of Pernod Ricard.
Executive of Socit Gnrale fide tojoining the Board, Richard was Belgique, Executive Vice-President and Governor of the Bank of Ireland.
member of the Executive Committee of Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of Suez and Chairman and CEO of Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
Sue Farr Ann Godbehere Savio Kwan Dr Pedro Malan Non-Executive Director 59 Non-Executive Director 60 Non-Executive Director 67 Non-Executive Director 73 Nationality: British Nationality: Canadian British Nationality: British Nationality: Brazilian Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director sinceFebruary 2015: member of the since2011: member of the since January 2014: member of the sinceFebruary 2015: member of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Audit, Nominations and Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Social Responsibility and Nominations Committees.
Key appointments: Special Advisor, Key appointments: NED, member of Key appointments: Co-Founder and Key appointments: Chairman of the Chime Group: NED, member of the the Nominations Committee and Chair CEO of A&K Consulting Co Ltd, International Advisory Board of Ita Audit, Nomination and Remuneration of the Audit Committee of Rio Tinto advising entrepreneurs and their Unibanco: member of the Advisory Committees and Chair of the Corporate plc and Rio Tinto Limited: NED, start-up businesses in China: Visiting Board of EDP Energias do Brasil SA: Social Responsibility Committee of Dairy member of the Audit Committee and Professor at Henley Business School: NED of Mills Estruturas e Servicos fide Crest Group plc: NED and member of Chair of the Compensation Committee Member of APAC Advisory Board of Engenharia SA: Trustee of the Thomson the Remuneration and Nominations of UBS Group AG and UBS AG: NED, UBS Wealth Management, UBS AG Reuters Trust Principles: member of the Committees of Millennium & Copthorne member of the Nomination and Risk Hong Kong Branch: Non-Executive Temasek International Panel.
Hotels plc: NED and member of the Committees and Chair of the Audit Director of The Hong Kong Skills and experience: Pedro has Audit and Nominations & Remuneration Committee of Prudential plc.
extensive experience of Brazilian trade Committees of Accsys Technologies PLC.
Skills and experience: Ann has more Skills and experience: Savio brings and industry and an in-depth Skills and experience: Sue brings than 25 years experience in the significant business leadership knowledge of the international considerable expertise in marketing, financial services industry.
She spent experience of Greater China and Asia economy.
Pedro was Minister of branding and consumer issues to the ten years at Swiss Re Group, latterly as to the Board.
During his extensive Finance for Brazil from 1995 to 2002, Board.
Sue is a former Chairwoman of Chief Financial Officer from 2003 to career he has worked broadly in having been President of the Central both the Marketing Society and the 2007.
From 2008 until 2009 she was technology for General Electric, BTR Bank of Brazil from 1993 to 1994, and Marketing Group of Great Britain.
Prior Chief Financial Officer of Northern plc and Alibaba Group, Chinas largest before that Chief External Debt to joining the Chime Group in2003, Rock during the initial phase of its internet business, where he was both Negotiator for Brazil from mid-1991 to where she was Director, Strategic and public ownership.
Ann is a Fellow of Chief Operating Officer and, later, 1993.
He is a former Chairman of Business Development until 2015, Sues the Certified General Accountants of aNon-Executive Director.
Unibanco and was NED of Souza Cruz career in corporate communications Canada and a Fellow of the Chartered S. A. from 2010 to 2015. included roles with the BBC and Vauxhall Motors.
48 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Attendance at Board meetings in 2015 Director Attended Name since Eligible to attend Richard Burrows 2009 9 9 Christine Morin-Postel 2007 9 9 Nicandro Durante 2008 9 9 Ben Stevens 2008 9 9 Dr Gerard Murphy Dimitri Panayotopoulos Sue Farr 2015 9 9 Non-Executive Director 60 Non-Executive Director 64 1 Ann Godbehere 2011 8 9 2 Savio Kwan 2014 8 9 Nationality: Irish Nationality: Greek Tanzanian 3 Dr Pedro Malan 2015 8 9 Position: Non-Executive Director since Position: Non-Executive Director Dr Gerry Murphy 2009 9 9 2009: member of the Audit and sinceFebruary 2015: member 1 Dimitri Panayotopoulos 2015 8 9 Nominations Committees.
oftheNominations and Kieran Poynter 2010 9 9 Remuneration Committees.
Key appointments: Chairman of 4 Karen fide Segundo 2007 8 9 theExecutive Committee of The Key appointments: Senior Advisor at 5 Dr Richard Tubb 2013 8 9 Blackstone Group International The Boston Consulting Group: NED Partners LLP: Chairman of Ideal and member of the Compensation Notes: Shopping Direct: and Supervisory Committee of  S. A.
Ann Godbehere and Dimitri Panayotopoulos missed the Mar ch ad hoc Board meeting, arranged Board member of Intertrust N. V. at short notice, due to prior engagements.
Skills and experience: Dimitri has and Jack Wolfskin.
Savio Kwan missed the Januar y ad hoc Board meeting, arranged at short notice, due to aprior engagement.
Skills and experience: Gerry brings international sales and brand building wide-ranging senior board level and expertise.
Pedro Malan, missed the July ad hoc Board meeting, arranged at short notice, due to a prior general management experience to Advisor to the Chairman and CEO of engagement.
He was Chief Executive Procter & Gamble P&G, where he 4.
Karen fide Segundo missed the October Board meeting due to illness.
Officer of Kingfisher plc, Carlton started his career in 1977.
Dr Richard T ubb missed the September Board meeting due to a family bereavement.
Communications plc, Exel plc and time at P&G Dimitri led on significant 6.
The Board held nine meetings in 2015.
Six of these were scheduled.
One meeting was held Greencore Group plc, and held senior breakthrough innovations and off site, in Brazil, to review the Groups strategy and the Groups Americas regional businesses.
operating roles at Grand Metropolitan continued to focus on this, speed to Six Board meetings are scheduled for 2016. plc now Diageo plc.
market and scale across all of P&Gs 7.
The Board of Directors is shown as at the date of this Annual Report.
businesses while Vice Chairman of all the Global Business Units.
Kieran Poynter Karen fide Segundo Dr Richard Tubb Non-Executive Director 65 Non-Executive Director 69 Non-Executive Director 56 Nationality: British Nationality: Dutch Nationality: US Position: Non-Executive Director since Position: Non-Executive Director since Position: Non-Executive Director 2010: Chairman of the Remuneration 2007: Chair of the Corporate Social since2013: member of the Corporate Committee: member of the Audit and Responsibility Committee: member Social Responsibility and Nominations Nominations Committees.
Will retire at the Will retire at the conclusion of the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Key appointments: NED and member 2016 AGM.
of the Audit and Compliance and Key appointments: White House Safety Committees of International Key appointments: Supervisory Board Physician Emeritus: member of the Consolidated Airlines Group S. A. : Member and member of the Finance Board of Reference for Project Rescue: Chairman and Chair of the & Investment and Nomination Senior Managing Director, Shoreland, Nominations, Audit and Compliance Committees at E. ON SE: member of Inc: advisory position at Lonsdale.
and Risk and Remuneration Committees the Board and member of the Audit Skills and experience: Richard is a of F&C Asset Management plc.
Committee of Pyry Oyj: NED of leading public health figure actively Cubico Sustainable Investments Skills and experience: Kieran brings involved in the science and policy Holdings Limited.
awealth of financial and international development of tobacco harm experience to the Board.
He was Skills and experience: Karen has reduction and alternative nicotine Chairman and Senior Partner of considerable leadership experience products.
He was White House  from 2000 ofglobal business.
Karen spent more Physician from 1995 to 2009, including tohis retirement in 2008, having started than 30 years with Shell, holding various Physician to the President of the United as a graduate trainee in 1971: and is a senior executive roles before retiring States from 2002 until his retirement in former Chairman of Nomura asCEO Shell International Renewables 2009.
Prior to that, Richard was Clinical International PLC.
Kieran served on the and President Shell Hydrogen in 2005.
Assistant Professor at the Uniformed Presidents Committee of the Karen is a Council Member of the Services University retired and Confederation of British Industry and as Anglo Netherlands Society.
Brigadier General retired in the member of an advisory committee for US Air Force.
the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 49
