governance governancer corporate This support also includes ensuring good governance, managing risk and adding value to our business.
As such, governance the board continues to be committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council the report Code.
The Corporate Governance Report which follows sets out the activities of the board and its committees and how we conduct our operations in line with the Codes Dear Shareholder, provisions and other accepted principles of good corporate As I mentioned in my Chairmans governance.
The application by the company of the 2014 Code will be reported on for the financial period ending statement earlier in this report, this has 2 October 2016. been another year of significant activity under the second full year of Changes to board composition leadership of Simon Litherland, our As part of our previously reported succession planning, we welcomed John Daly as an Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer.
The board has to the board with effect from the conclusion of the companys been busy supporting the business in Annual General Meeting on 27 January 2015.
John is currently a Non-Executive Director of Wolseley plc, a position he has held the execution of the strategy launched since May 2014, and of G4S plc following his appointment on in 2013, including the pursuit of our 5 June 2015.
John Daly has extensive international experience, combined with a deep understanding of global leadership in a international expansion plan, with the number of sectors, and is well placed to add value to Britvic.
successful acquisition of Empresa John Gibney, Chief Financial Officer, announced his intention Brasileira fide Bebidas e Ailmentos SA to retire on 20 May 2015.
The board further announced the appointment of Mathew Dunn as Chief Financial Officer on Ebba, a Brazilian soft drinks 30 July 2015.
Mathew joined the company on 28 September 2015 company, which completed on 30 and, following a period of overlap to ensure a smooth transition, September 2015. will succeed John Gibney as CFO following the announcement of the companys preliminary results on 25 November 2015.
Mathew was formerly the CFO of South African Breweries Ltd, a division of SABMiller plc in South Africa, where he was based since 2014.
He first joined SABMiller plc in 2002 where he held various financial planning and management positions, as well as leadership positions, and he brings significant experience in the international beverage sector and expertise in operational leadership to the board.
This will be invaluable as we continue to execute our strategy to pursue the expansion of our brands globally.
Following his appointment to the board on 25 November 2015, he will stand for election at the AGM on 27 January 2016.
The board would like to thank John for his significant contribution and support to the company during his ten years as a director of the company.
He played a crucial role in the flotation of the business in 2005, has successfully overseen the acquisitions we have made to date, and helped to create the strong balance sheet we enjoy today.
I am pleased that John will remain with the company until his retirement in April 2016: he will not be standing for re-election at the AGM and, consequently, he will formally step down as a director of the company from that date.
Silvia Lagnado, a Non-Executive Director of the company since 2 June 2014, stepped down from the board on 31 July 2015 following her appointment as Global Chief Marketing Officer of McDonalds Corp and her associated relocation to the U. S. The board would also like to thank Silvia for her valuable contribution to the company during her relatively short tenure.
32 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information governance corporate governance report continued Bob Ivell, Senior Independent Director SID and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, reaches his nine year tenure as a director since his first election by shareholders in 2007, but will remain on the board until it is satisfied that it has identified a suitable successor to replace him.
Meanwhile, John Daly will succeed Bob as SID and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Your board is committed to remaining effective and recognises that to do so it must ensure that it has the right balance of skills, independence and knowledge of the company to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
Further details on the boards succession planning activities, and the steps it is taking to develop its policy on diversity are discussed in my Nomination Committee Report on pages 46 to 47.
Details of the directors biographies are set out on pages 34 and 35.
Board evaluation Evidence of the impact made by refreshing the skills of the board and its committees can been seen in the outputs of this years board evaluation, details of which are summarised on pages 41 to 42.
Fair, balanced and understandable During the year the board reviewed the requirement for directors to make a statement that they consider the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
As part of this review, we received an early draft of the annual report to have enough time to review and comment.
The Audit Committee met to consider the criteria for a fair, balanced and understandable annual report and to review the processes underpinning the compilation and assurance of the report, in relation to the financial and non-financial information.
The board then considered the annual report as a whole being mindful of the new UK reporting requirements to ensure consistency between the narrative sections and the financial statements.
The boards statement on the report is outlined on page 73.
Gerald Corbett Chairman 24 November 2015 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 33
