Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Nominations Committee making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates for appointments to the Board and Management Board: and assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, and ensuring Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
Key activities in 2015 considering Non-Executive Director appointments, interviewing candidates and recommending appointments to the Board: considering the Group Talent Strategy and talent development priorities for 2015, including the promotion of diversity: Richard Burrows Chairman of the Nominations Committee reviewing succession planning for the Executive Directors and for the Management Board: and Nominations Committee current members reviewing the progress of bespoke development plans for high potential candidates for Executive Director and Management Board Richard Burrows Chairman Dr Gerry Murphy roles covering the key experience required for further progression, Sue Farr Dimitri Panayotopoulos mentoring and education opportunities.
Ann Godbehere Kieran Poynter Savio Kwan Karen fide Segundo Terms of appointment to the Board Dr Pedro Malan Dr Richard Tubb Details of the Directors terms of appointment to the Board are contained in the Remuneration Policy which is set out in full in the Christine Morin-Postel Annual Report 2013 on www.
A new Policy is being submitted to shareholders for consideration at the AGM on 27 April 2016.
Attendance at meetings in 2015 Details of this revised Policy, which if approved will apply to Executive Member Attendance Eligible Directors with effect from 28 April 2016, are set out on pages 7490.
Name since to attend The Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
The NonRichard Burrows 2009 3 3 Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company Sue Farr 2015 2 2 but instead have letters of appointment for one year.
Their expected time commitment is 2530 days per year.
The Board takes into Ann Godbehere 2011 3 3 1 account the need for it to refresh its membership progressively over Savio Kwan 2014 2 3 time.
Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve for up to Dr Pedro Malan 2015 2 2 six years.
They may be invited to serve for longer, but additional service Christine Morin-Postel 2007 3 3 beyond six years is subject to rigorous review and service beyond nine Dr Gerry Murphy 2009 3 3 years is unlikely.
Dimitri Panayotopoulos 2015 2 2 In 2015, the Board underwent a significant refreshment process.
Kieran Poynter 2010 3 3 In order to provide continuity and stability throughout this period of Karen fide Segundo 2007 3 3 change, it is considered prudent that Christine Morin-Postel should Dr Richard Tubb 2013 3 3 remain on the Board and she is considered to remain independent Notes: notwithstanding her length of service.
Savio Kwan missed the January ad hoc meeting, arranged at short notice, due to for identifying candidates for positions on the Board.
includes an evaluation of the skills and experience to be looked 2.
The Committee held three meetings, one of which was convened at short notice.
for in candidates to ensure continuing Board balance and relevant 3.
The Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director regularly attend meetings experience.
The selection process involves interviews with several byinvitation but are not members.
candidates, using the services of specialist external search firms to identify and shortlist appropriate candidates.
A balanced list including For the Committees terms of reference visit www.
com governance both genders is a requirement of any shortlist.
An explanation of the Groups diversity policy appears on page 19 of this report.
Annual General Meeting 2016 Role Karen fide Segundo has indicated that she will be retiring from the The Nominations Committee is responsible for: Board at the end of this years AGM on 27 April 2016, having served reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for eight years on the Board, nearly seven of which as Chairman of the Management Board to ensure both have an appropriate balance Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee.
Dr Richard Tubb will ofskills, expertise, knowledge and for the Board independence: also retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, having served as a Non-Executive Director since January 2013. reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Directors and members of the Management Board: The Company will be submitting all other Directors for re-election at this years AGM.
The Chairmans letter accompanying the AGM Notice ensuring that the procedure for appointing Directors is rigorous, confirms that all Directors being proposed for re-election are effective transparent, objective, merit-based and has regard for diversity: and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as Non-Executive Directors.
66 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015
