Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Audit Committee Role The Audit Committee monitors and reviews: the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance, considering any significant issues and judgements reflected in them, before their submission to the Board: the consistency of the Groups accounting policies: the effectiveness of, and makes recommendations to the Board on, the Groups accounting, risk and internal control systems: the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: and Christine Morin-Postel Chairman of the Audit Committee the performance, independence and objectivity of the Companys external auditors, making recommendations as to their reappointment or for a tender of audit services, and approving Audit Committee current members theirterms of engagement and the level of audit fees.
Christine Morin-Postel Chairman Ann Godbehere Key activities in 2015 Gerry Murphy Regular work programme: Kieran Poynter reviewing the application of accounting standards, the Groups 2014 results, 2015 half-year results, the interim management statements and the external auditors reports where results are audited: Attendance at meetings in 2015 Member Attendance Eligible reviewing the Groups liquidity position, current facilities and Name since to attend financing needs through 2015: 1 Ann Godbehere 2012 6 6 reviewing the steps taken to validate the Groups Going Concern 2 Christine Morin-Postel 2014 6 6 assessment at half-year and year-end and the discussions and 3 Gerry Murphy 2015 3 3 agreeing of the process steps taken to determine the Groups viability 1 Kieran Poynter 2012 6 6 statement at year-end: Notes: reviewing the 2016 Internal Audit Plan: 1.
Ann Godbehere and Kieran Poynter have recent and relevant financial experience.
reviewing periodic reports from the Groups regional Audit and 2.
Christine Morin-Postel became Chairman of the Committee, replacing Kieran Poynter, with CSRCommittees and Corporate Audit Committee: effect from 5 May 2015.
She re-joined the Committee on 6 January 2014 having previously served as a member of the Committee from 2007 to 2012. reviewing the Groups Risk Register, including the categorisation of, 3.
Gerry Murphy joined the Committee with effect from 5 May 2015. and mitigating factors in respect of, Group risks: 4.
The Finance Director attends all meetings of the Committee but is not a member.
Other Directors may attend by invitation.
The Group Head of Audit and Business Risk, reviewing regular reports from the Group Head of Audit and Business theDirector, Legal & External Affairs, and the external auditors also attend meetings on Risk on international audits and the management responses and aregular basis.
action plans being put in place to address any concerns raised: 5.
The Committee held six meetings in 2015.
Five of these were scheduled.
One ad hoc meeting was held in March regarding the tender process to appoint new Group Auditors.
reviewing in-depth reviews of specific risk topics see page 59 : 6.
The Committee meets alone with the external auditors and, separately, with the Group Head reviewing the annual assessment of goodwill impairment: ofAudit and Business Risk, at the end of most meetings.
reviewing the annual report from the Head of Group Security on For the Committees terms of reference see security risks and frauds and losses arising during the preceding year: www.
com governance and reviewing quarterly reports on compliance with the Groups Standards of Business Conduct and biannual reports on political contributions.
58 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further specific matters considered by the Committee: contingent liabilities, provisions and deposits in connection with ongoing litigation: the Committee reassessed the provision receiving a report on the threat to independence arising from in respect of the Fox River clean-up costs and related legal expenses the proposal to bring legal proceedings against the Groups then subsequent to a funding agreement in relation to the sharing of auditors,  LLP PwC and accepting their the costs.
As a result, there has been no release of this provision in resignation following the Boards decision to bring proceedings: 2015 see note 3 in the Notes on the Accounts.
However, inherent reviewing the audit tender process and conducting the tender for the uncertainties remain see note 30 in the Notes on the Accounts.
appointment of new Group Auditors and agreeing the audit strategy The Committee agreed that no provision should be recognised at this and transition plan following the appointment of KPMG LLP as the point in time in respect of the Kalamazoo River claim.
The Committee Groups auditors following the resignation of PwC: also agreed that the quarterly deposits in relation to security for costs in relation to the Quebec Class Action, made by the Groups reviewing the Groups tax position including the progress made in subsidiary Imperial Tobacco Canada, would be treated as an asset tax litigation cases in various jurisdictions: to be recovered upon a successful appeal of the original judgment reviewing accounting issues and policies relating to M&A activity: seenote 14 in the Notes on the Accounts : reviewing and agreeing a revised Group Treasury Policy: and changes in the Group: the Committee reviewed and approved the accounting treatment in relation the US$4.7 billion cash investment receiving an update on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting and country by the Group to maintain its 42% shareholding in RAI, as part of by country tax reporting.
the RAIs acquisition of Lorillard Inc. including the recognition by Risk topics considered by the Committee: the Group of a deemed gain of US$931 million 601 million in the continued roll-out of the Groups revised operating model and compliance with IAS 39 see note 4 b in the Notes on the Accounts.
single IT operating system programme, including reviewing the The Committee also agreed the Groups treatment in relation to programme costs, its timeframe, and the risks and mitigation plans: the acquisition of the shares it does not already own in its subsidiary Souza Cruz: and the review of projects which will leverage the capabilities of the single IT operating system and its global scale to increase standardisation, foreign exchange and restricted cash: as the Group has operations automation, scale and service orientation in the areas of HR shared in certain territories with severe currency restrictions, where foreign services and business information capabilities: and currency is not readily available, the Committee satisfied itself that the methodologies used to determine relevant exchange rates for the Groups position and progress made with regard to various accounting purposes remained appropriate for restricted cash, smoking and health litigation brought in Canada.
seenote 19 intheNotes on the Accounts.
Significant accounting judgements considered by theCommittee in relation to the 2015 accounts: the continuing roll-out of the Groups revised operating model and single IT operating system: given the level of investment, complexity and strategic importance to the Group, the Committee received regular updates from management, internal audit and the external auditors on progress with the roll-out throughout the year including programme governance, risk and compliance activities.
The Committee examined the capitalisation of the IT template as an intangible asset on the Group balance sheet seenote 9 in the Notes on the Accounts, amortisation of IT assets generated as part of the programme, and adjusting items in relation to implementation costs see note 3 e in the Notes on the Accounts, and was satisfied that the accounting treatment anddisclosure of these matters adopted previously remains appropriate: the Groups significant corporate tax exposures and related provisions: the Committee was updated periodically on corporate tax matters and considered reports from the Group Head of Tax on the current status of issues in various markets.
These included significant tax disputes in Brazil, SouthAfrica, Turkey and the Netherlands and a favourable outcome in Canada.
The Committee agreed with managements proposed provisions and extended disclosures in respect of them see note 30 in the Noteson the Accounts : British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 59 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Audit Committee continued There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice External auditors of auditors.
The Groups external auditors are required to rotate As reported in the 2014 Annual Report,  LLP the audit partner responsible for the Group audit at least every five PwC notified the Group that it would not seek reappointment as the years, and those responsible for the subsidiary audits at least every Groups auditors at the 2015 AGM.
This situation arose from potential seven years.
claims against PwC, which had been assigned to the Group, in relation to the audit of the accounts of a third party.
These claims do not Auditor independence policy concern the audit of any Group company see below for further details The Committee has an established policy to safeguard and support the of the tender process.
KPMG LLP KPMG was appointed as Group independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, which Auditors on 27 March 2015 and their appointment was approved by complies with the provisions of the CMA Order.
The key principle of shareholders at the AGM on 29 April 2015.
The Committee considers the policy is that the Groups external auditors may be engaged to that the relationship with the auditors is working well and is satisfied provide services only in cases where those services do not impair their with their effectiveness.
independence and objectivity, and provided that the total annual fees for non-audit services are below the sum of annual fees for audit and Group auditor tender process audit-related services.
Process and selection criteria The external auditors may not be engaged to provide services if the The tender process was carried out in compliance with the provisions provision of such services would result in the external auditors: of the Competition and Markets Authority Audit Order 2014 the having a mutual or conflicting interest with any Group company: CMA Order.
The selection criteria adopted by the Committee also closely followed those detailed in the Audit Tender notes of best being placed in the position of auditing their own work: practice set out by the FRC as at July 2013 namely, quality and clarity acting as a manager or employee of any Group company: or of approach, understanding of the business and risks, appropriate geographic breadth, appropriate team structure and experience, being placed in the position of advocate for any Group company.
cultural fit and approach to independence and conflict issues.
Subject to the above, the external auditors may provide certain tax Due to the global nature of the Groups business, it was deemed and other non-audit services.
The Committee recognises that using the not practicable to invite a mid-tier accountancy firm to tender, nor, external auditors to provide such services is often of benefit where they given the short timescale, were investors views sought on the list of have detailed knowledge of our business, although such services must tender participants.
be put to tender if expected spend exceeds specified limits, unless Process summary from 24 February to 27 March 2015 a waiver of this requirement is agreed by the Finance Director and notified to the Committee.
Request for Proposal RFP issued by the Chairman of the Audit Committee to RFP Vendors.
The Committee also reviews a work plan identifying the total fees for all audit-related services, tax services and other non-audit services that it A data room was set up and introduction and engagement meetings is expected will be undertaken by the external auditors in the following were held between RFP Vendors and the Chairman of the Audit year.
Tax services and other non-audit services in excess of the tender Committee, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director thresholds referred to above must be itemised.
Updated work plans are and the Director responsible for corporate and regulatory affairs.
also submitted to the Committee at the mid-year and year-end, so that Knowledge and information meetings were then held between RFP it has full visibility of the Group spend on non-audit services.
Vendors and senior management from key functions and functional A breakdown of audit, audit-related and non-audit fees paid to KPMG teams submitted their evaluation on the selection criteria to the Head firms and associates in 2015 is provided in note 3 d in the Notes on of Audit.
the Accounts and is summarised as follows: RFP Vendors submitted their final written tenders.
Services provided by KPMG firms and associates 2015 An ad hoc Audit Committee was convened to consider the tender and by PwC and associates in 2014 responses.
Each of the firms presented to the Audit Committee on 2015 2014 their sector and global experience and the Committee questioned KPMG PwC each firm in relation to its audit approach, on issues of independence m m and on the terms of their proposed engagement letters.
A Board Audit services 8.7 9.3 meeting followed on the same day.
On the recommendation of the Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.3 Audit Committee, and following receipt of PwCs letter of resignation, the Board appointed KPMG as the Groups new auditors.
Total audit and audit-related services 8.9 9.6 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 A resolution to appoint KPMG as the Groups auditors was included Tax advisory services 0.6 3.8 in the Notice of AGM.
Tax compliance 0.4 0.8 KPMG was confirmed by shareholders 99.76% voted in favour as Other non-audit services 2.0 0.2 Group Auditors at the 2015 AGM.
Total non-audit services 3.1 4.9 Note: In 2015 non-audit fees paid to KPMG amounted to 35% of the audit and audit-related assurance fees paid to them 2014 Auditors, PwC: 51%.
60 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Annual assessment The Groups regional Audit and CSR Committees are all chaired by an Executive Director and attended by one or more Non-Executive In the ordinary course of business, each year, the Committee will Directors.
In the EEMEA Region, given the size of the Region and the normally separately assess the qualification, expertise and resources, number of countries it includes, the regional Audit and CSR Committee and independence of the Groups external auditors and the is supported by an area Audit and CSR Committee.
Local audit and effectiveness of the audit process.
This year, given the change of CSR Committees also operate in a number of markets in EEMEA and in auditors, KPMGs suitability was assessed by the Committee as part other Regions where the complexity of the business requires it.
of the audit tender process, taking due consideration of the FRC guidance for Audit Committees on the evaluation of external auditor The Corporate Audit Committee focuses on the Groups risks and quality, including culture, skills, character, knowledge, quality control control environment that fall outside the regional committees remit, and judgement.
The Committee were also particularly interested in for example head office central functions, global programmes and understanding KPMGs proposed approach to the Group audit and projects.
It comprises members of the Management Board, is chaired questioned them carefully to ensure its effectiveness given the scope by a Regional Director and is also attended by one or more of the and geographic spread of the organisation and their links with, and the Non-Executive Directors.
competence of, non UK-based component auditors.
External and internal auditors attend meetings of these committees The Finance Director, Director, Legal & External Affairs, Group Head and regularly have private audiences with members of the committees of Internal Audit and Business Risk, Company Secretary and the after meetings.
Additionally, central, regional and individual market Committee Chairman all meet with the external auditors throughout management, along with internal audit, supports the Board in its role the year to discuss relevant issues as well as the progress of the audit.
of ensuring a sound control environment.
Significant issues are included on the Committees agenda.
Risk management Risk management and internal control Risk registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used at Overview Group, regional, area and individual market level to identify, assess and monitor the principal risks both financial and non-financial faced The Company maintains its system of risk management and internal by the business at each level.
Information on prevailing trends, for control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and example whether a risk is considered to be increasing or decreasing the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, evaluate and manage over time, is provided in relation to each risk and all identified risks risks that may impede the Companys objectives.
It cannot, and is not are assessed at three levels high medium low by reference to their designed to, eliminate them entirely.
The system therefore provides impact and likelihood.
Mitigation plans are required to be in place a reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement to manage the risks identified and their progress is also monitored.
A description of the principal risk factors that may affect the The risk registers and mitigation plans are reviewed on a regular basis.
Groups business is provided in our Strategic Report on pages 3744.
Regional and above-market risk registers are reviewed regularly by the The main features of the risk management processes and system of relevant regional Audit and CSR Committee or the Corporate Audit internal control operated within the Group are described below, and Committee, as appropriate.
have beenin place throughout the year under review and remain in place todate.
They do not cover the Groups associate undertakings.
At Group level, specific responsibility for managing each identified risk is allocated to a member of the Management Board.
The responsible Board oversight Management Board member is identified in relation to each of the During the year, the Board considered the nature and extent of principal Group risk factors set out in our Strategic Report.
The Group the principal risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its Risk Register is reviewed regularly by a committee of senior managers, strategic objectives its risk appetite and for maintaining sound risk chaired by the Finance Director.
In addition, it is reviewed annually by management and internal control systems.
It will review and monitor the Board and twice yearly by the Audit Committee.
The Board and its risk appetite on an annual basis to ensure that it is appropriate the Audit Committee review changes in the status of identified risks, and consistent with internal policies.
With the support of the Audit assessing the changes in impact and likelihood.
The Audit Committee Committee, the Board also carries out a review of the effectiveness of also conducts deep dives into selected risks, meeting senior managers the Groups risk management and internal control systems annually responsible for managing and mitigating them, so that it can consider and reports to shareholders that it has done so.
This review covers those risks in detail.
all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
In 2015, the Board noted that despite a number of changes to the Group Risk Register, which demonstrated its dynamic nature, the Audit and CSR Committee framework Groups risk profile remained stable.
The Groups Audit and CSR Committee framework underpins the Boards Audit and CSR Committees.
It provides a flexible channel This year the Board also considered the development of the Group for the structured flow of information through the Group, with Viability Statement see page 38 of the Strategic Report.
committees covering locally listed Group entities in certain markets, and covering the Groups regions, each referring matters to the next For more information on risk factors see the principal Group risk factors level as appropriate.
This framework ensures that significant financial, section inour Strategic Report on pages 3744. social, environmental and reputational risks faced by the Company and its subsidiaries are appropriately managed and that any failings orweaknesses are identified so that remedial action may be taken.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 61 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Audit Committee continued Standards of Business Conduct Internal control The Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with the Group companies and other business units are required, on an annual Companys Standards of Business Conduct the Standards, which basis, to complete a checklist, called Control Navigator, of the key underpin the Groups commitment to good corporate behaviour.
controls that they are expected to have in place.
Its purpose is to The Standards require all staff to act with a high degree of business enable them to self-assess their internal control environment, assist integrity, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and ensure that them in identifying any controls that may need strengthening and standards are never compromised for the sake of results.
Every Group support them in implementing and monitoring action plans to address company and all staff worldwide, including senior management and control weaknesses.
The Control Navigator checklist is reviewed the Board, are expected to live up to the Standards.
Guidance on annually to ensure that it remains relevant to the business and covers them is provided across the Group, including through training and all applicable key controls.
In addition, at each year-end, Group awareness programmes.
All Group companies have adopted the companies and other business units are required to: Standards or local equivalents.
review their system of internal control, confirm whether it remains Information on compliance with the Standards is gathered at a effective and report on any material weaknesses and the action being regional and global level and reported to the regional Audit and CSR taken to address them: and Committees and to the Committee.
review and confirm compliance with the Standards of Business The Standards, and information on the total number of incidents Conduct and identify any material instances of non-compliance or reported under them in 2015 including established breaches, is conflicts of interest.
The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant regional Audit In the year to 31 December 2015, 94 instances of suspected improper and CSR Committees or to the Corporate Audit Committee and, conduct contrary to the Standards excluding non-material employee where appropriate, to the Audit Committee to ensure that appropriate fraud and theft against Group companies were reported to the remedial action has been, or will be, taken where necessary.
In mid-2014, a new category under the Internal audit function Standards was included which encompassed Respect in the Workplace.
The Groups internal audit function provides advice and guidance In 2015, the first full year of reporting in this category, Respect in to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk management and the Workplace matters accounted for 30 of the reported instances, control systems.
It is also responsible for carrying out audit checks following training in this area.
on Group companies and other business units, and does so against Of the 94 instances reported, 29 were established as breaches and an audit plan presented annually to the Audit Committee, which appropriate action taken 2014: 20.
In 43 cases, an investigation focuses in particular on higher risk areas of the Groups business.
In 22 cases, the investigation Throughout much of 2015 there has been a significant focus by continued at the year-end 2014: 5. internal audit on the roll-out of the Groups revised operating model and single IT system, reviewing the Groups planning process for rollout, its testing and business readiness, as well as reviewing the success of implementation.
Once the roll-out completes in 2016, the focus of internal audit during the year will revert to both global process reviews as well as entity audits on a business-as-usual basis.
Financial reporting controls The Group has in place a series of policies, practices and controls in relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, which are designed to address key financial reporting risks, including risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards and to provide assurance of the completeness and accuracy of the content of the Annual Report and in particular, to assess whether it is fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with regulatory requirements.
The Group Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out the Group accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its internal reporting requirements.
The internal reporting of financial information in order to prepare the Groups quarterly interim management statements and half-yearly and year-end financial statements is signed off by the heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and business units.
The heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and all senior managers must also confirm annually that all information relevant to the Group audit has been provided to the Directors and that reasonable steps have been taken to ensure full disclosure in response to requests for information from the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Committee attended an internal Annual Report drafting meeting and engaged separately with the Finance Director during the drafting process in 2015.
The effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting controls are assessed as part of the Control Navigator exercise described above and evaluated by internal audit in the context of the annual audit plan.
62 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Whistleblowing Annual review The Standards also set out the Groups whistleblowing policy, The Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management enabling staff, in confidence, to raise concerns without fear of reprisal.
and Internal Control and Related Business Reporting published in September 2014 the Guidance replaces the Turnbull Guidance on The policy is supplemented by local procedures throughout the these matters and reflects the recent changes to the UK Corporate Group and at the Groups London headquarters, providing staff with Governance Code the Code regarding the applicability of, and further guidance and enabling them to report matters in a language compliance with, the Codes Provisions with regard to issues of with which they are comfortable.
The Committee receives quarterly risk and internal control management and related financial and reports on whistleblowing incidents, often discussing them in detail.
It remains satisfied that the Groups policy and procedures enable proportionate and independent investigation of matters raised and The processes described above, and the reports that they give rise to, ensure appropriate follow-up action is taken.
enable the Board and the Committee to monitor the issue of risk and internal control management on a continuing basis throughout the Of the total number of business conduct incidents reported in 2015, year and to review its effectiveness at the year-end.
The Board, with set out on the previous page, 73 were brought to managements advice from the Committee, has completed its annual review of the attention through whistleblowing reports from employees, effectiveness of that system for 2015. ex-employees, third parties or unknown individuals reporting anonymously 2014: 42.
The increase is also considered to be a No significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Board is result of reporting relating to the new Standards of Business Conduct satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified, processes category which encompasses Respect in the Workplace, as well as are in place to ensure that remedial action is taken and progress is continued awareness training delivered during 2015. monitored.
The Board is satisfied that the system of risk and internal control management accords with the Guidance.
Political contributions The Committee is responsible for reviewing donations made for political purposes throughout the Group.
The total amount of political donations paid in 2015 was 25,804 2014: 3,214, as follows: British American Tobacco Japan Limited reported contributions totalling Japanese yen 1,910,000, 10,324 for the full year 2015.
This expenditure is reported as a political contribution although it related specifically to the purchase of tickets to receptions or dinners hosted by Members of Parliament MPs.
Representatives from British American Tobacco Japan Limited engaged with these MPs at the receptions on local tobacco tax issues.
British American Tobacco Colombia S. A. S. reported contributions totalling Colombian peso $65,000,000 15,480 for the period covering 1 July to 31 December 2015.
This expenditure relates specifically to donations made to five different political parties in Colombia in order to contribute to public and democratic debates onissues affecting that company.
No other political donations were reported.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 63
