strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information governance governance audit The committee has an open dialogue throughout the year with the Director of Audit and Risk and the external auditors to raise committee challenges and questions to support understanding whilst sharing experience and an independent perspective.
Ian McHoul Objective Audit Committee Chairman The objective of the committee is to provide independent scrutiny of the groups financial reporting, the internal control environment and The committees role is to ensure processes in place to monitor this, the adequacy of the risk appropriate oversight and review of management framework and the activities of the external auditors.
the presentation and integrity of the Responsibilities financial reporting and statements, Reviewing the financial results announcements and financial internal control and risk management, statements and any significant financial reporting issues and internal audit programmes, changes in judgements which they may contain regulatory requirements, and the Advising the board on whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and independence and appointment of provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the external auditors.
companys performance, business model and strategy Ensuring compliance with applicable accounting standards and To enable the committee to discharge its responsibilities, reviewing the appropriateness of accounting policies and discussions on a broad range of topics and reports were practices in place held with management, internal audit and the external Assessing the adequacy of the internal control environment and auditors throughout the year.
This provided us with the processes in place to monitor this, including reviewing the insight into the progress towards the companys activities and performance of the internal audit team strategic goals and the challenges and risks and how Reviewing risk management processes and considering the they are being managed.
adequacy of the actions being taken to identify risks and reduce These include considering the requirements of the 2014 the exposure of the group to those risks Corporate Governance Code and assessing the impact on Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing our processes so that we are ready to report against the their activities and performance and advising the board on their new code for our year ending 2 October 2016 and appointment and remuneration discussions over the timing and approach to the external Ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place for individuals to audit tender.
The most significant matters discussed over raise issues with the board where a breach of conduct or the course of the year are described in the pages that follow.
compliance, including any financial reporting irregularity, is suspected.
Membership and meetings Membership and Attendance Number of Meetings Attended Held Ian McHoul Chairman 3 3 1 John Daly 1 2 Bob Ivell 3 3 Ben Gordon 3 3 Notes: 1.
Meetings attended by John Daly subsequent to his appointment on 27 January 2015.
The committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors, John Daly, Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and myself as Chairman.
The board is satisfied that I have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 43 governance audit committee continued The committee meets three times a year: in November and May to The primary areas of focus and judgement considered by the review the annual report and accounts and interim report committee in relation to the 2015 accounts were as follows: respectively and to consider the external audit findings, and in Revenue recognition September to review the activities of the previous year, the plan for The group recognises revenue when goods are delivered and accepted the year ahead and to consider any emerging issues.
At each by customers, and significant risks and rewards of ownership have meeting the performance and findings of the internal audit team are passed to the buyer and can be measured reliably.
Revenue includes reviewed and the most recent key risks are considered.
deductions for long-term discounts and promotional discounts and Attendees at each of the meetings are the committees members as management makes an accrual where it is probable that a rebate or well as, by invitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial discount will be earned.
Governance of this process has been Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the General Counsel, the Director reviewed by the committee with updates during the year.
of Audit and Risk and the external auditor, Ernst and Young LLP EY.
The committee discussed the balanced approach to judgements Each meeting allows time for the committee to speak with key and completeness of accruals with management and external people without the presence of the others, in particular the external auditors and agreed that that the policy is applied appropriately auditor and the Director of Audit and Risk.
and consistently in the group financial statements.
Valuation of goodwill and indefinite life assets Main activities during the year The review of goodwill and intangible assets is based on a calculation The committee supports the board in carrying out its responsibilities of value in use, using cash flow projections based on market measures in relation to financial reporting, risk management and assessing and financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved internal controls.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the companys by the board of directors.
Key assumptions include weighted internal audit function and manages the relationship with the external average cost of capital WACC, inflation and volume growth rates.
The committee ensures that the company has appropriate Any potential triggers of impairment are sensitivity tested to provide provision for confidential and impartial whistleblowing process in line comfort to management that sufficient headroom is present.
The asset valuations have been reviewed and tested by management Committee meetings usually take place prior to a board meeting, and reviewed by the external auditors, including assessment of any where I report to the board on the activity of the committee and potential reversal to the previous impairment made to the Ballygowan matters of particular relevance to the board.
The committee was satisfied that the outcome of testing was no requirement for impairment or reversal of impairment in 2015.
The committee undertook the following activities during the course Exceptional and other items of the year to discharge its responsibilities: A group policy to identify and classify exceptional and other items Financial reporting was approved by the committee in September, and includes items At each committee meeting the Chief Financial Officer presents a of significant income and expense which due to their size, nature or review of key areas of judgement, any changes in accounting policy frequency merit separate presentation to enable users of the and key financial control activities in the year.
In addition, the Audit accounts to better understand performance.
Committee reviews both the interim and preliminary results announcement along with financial statements.
Where requested by The committee reviewed items that management classified as the committee, or recommended by management, further detailed exceptional and other in light of the group policy and FRC guidance, updates are presented on key topics.
and agree with their appropriateness.
The committee also considers reporting from the external auditor, Derivative and hedging activities EY, on the interim report and financial statements, the audit plan and The group has derivative instruments to which hedge accounting is the outcome of the external audit and looks for constructive applied and which swap principal and interest of the US Private challenge from the auditors in all discussions.
Forward foreign currency contracts were also purchased to hedge against the cost of the Brazilian Real To form its opinion, the committee reflected on the information it transaction to acquire Ebba.
Updates on derivatives and hedging received and discussions during the year to evaluate whether: activities were presented in the Chief Financial Officers paper in The financial statements comply with all applicable financial each meeting in the year, and the committee agreed the approach reporting standards and any other required regulations and treatment in the financial statements.
Material areas of significant judgement have been given due Taxation consideration by management and reviewed with external The process for reporting the groups tax expense and liability was auditors reviewed and reported on to the committee, along with any changes The application of acceptable accounting policies and practices is in uncertain tax positions.
The completeness and appropriateness of consistent across the group balance sheet provisions and the effective tax rate was discussed and agreed with the committee.
The disclosures provided are clear and as required by financial reporting standards Defined benefit pension scheme valuation Any correspondence from regulators has been received in relation The committee reviewed the outcome of the actuarial valuation of to our financial reporting the pension assets and liabilities for the three defined benefit schemes under IAS19 and agree with the approach taken by The annual report and financial accounts represent a fair, balanced management, recognising the external auditors review of the key and understandable view of information for shareholders.
assumptions used for discount rate and inflation.
44 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information governance audit committee continued its assessment on the feedback provided.
The committee also holds Acquisition of Ebba private meetings with the external auditor at each meeting to provide The acquisition of Ebba was completed on 30 September 2015, opportunity for further discussion.
shortly after the groups year end on 27 September.
Management discussed and agreed with the committee that in the period from External auditor performance announcing the deal on 23 July to the year end, the group did not The external auditors, Ernst and Young LLP, provided the committee take control of Ebba management or decision making and therefore with their plan for undertaking the year end audit at the committee no consolidation is required in 2015.
The committee also agreed meeting in May 2015.
This highlighted the proposed approach and that sufficient time was not available to conclude the purchase price scope of the audit for the coming year and identified the areas of allocation exercise for the 2015 annual report and a post balance audit risk, including the audit approach for these areas.
The sheet event note has been included in the financial statements.
significant areas identified were revenue recognition and management override especially in relation to rebates and discounts.
Fair, balanced and understandable Other areas of focus included the carrying value of goodwill and As part of the review of the annual report the committee considered indefinite life assets, the accounting for the groups derivatives and whether the report and preliminary results announcement is fair, hedging activities, the valuation of the defined benefit pension balanced and understandable when taken as a whole, and provides scheme and taxation.
The committee reviewed and appropriately the information necessary to assess the companys performance, challenged the basis for these before agreeing the proposed business model and strategy.
On the basis of its review activities, the approach and scope of the external audit.
committee recommended to the board that the report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The external auditors prepared a detailed report of their audit findings at the year end, which they took the committee through at Internal audit and control the meeting in November.
The findings were reviewed and discussed in detail by the committee, particularly in relation to the The committee agreed the audit plan to be undertaken by the internal areas highlighted above.
A similar review of the external auditors audit team prior to the start of the year, and during each of the meetings report of their findings at the half year review is undertaken by the throughout the year, progress against this plan was reviewed.
As part of this review the committee questioned and was assessed on the basis of providing appropriate coverage over the challenged the work undertaken, the findings and the key assumptions internal control environment, strategic priorities and key risks.
made, with particular attention to the areas of audit risk identified.
Additional areas were added to the audit plan as required where EYs external audit team was subject to an audit quality review by circumstances gave rise to an increased level of risk and any changes the UK external audit regulator in relation to its audit of the 2014 to the agreed audit plan were agreed by the committee.
In light of the financial statements.
The results were shared with the chairman of international growth strategy of the group, during the year the the Audit Committee and have been discussed with the EY audit committee spent time ensuring the appropriate control environment partner.
Whilst some limited areas for improvement were identified, was in place to support that strategy.
The committee received an the results did not cause any concern for the committee in terms of update from the Director of Audit and Risk at each meeting the overall quality of the external audit process.
summarising the findings of the internal audits undertaken and the progress made against actions agreed from previous audits.
Detailed Independence and reappointment updates on specific areas are provided at the request of the committee.
The committee reviews the independence of the auditors when considering their reappointment following the year end close each During the year, an evaluation of the performance of the internal year, and during the year.
The external auditor is required to rotate audit function was carried out by an external company who deemed the lead audit partner every five years.
The current lead audit partner the function to be effective when compared with other FTSE 250 began his tenure for the financial year ended 30 September 2013. companies: all specific matters arising from the review were discussed EY have been the companys auditors since its stock market listing and the Director of Audit and Risk is addressing them as part of a in 2005 ten years and during that time the external audit has not three-year strategy for the function.
The committee has reviewed the recent EU legislation and response from the UK regulatory bodies and Risk management considered the impact on the reappointment of the external The risk management process is reviewed annually by the auditors.
The committee agreed that it will tender its external audit committee to ensure that it is set up to deliver appropriate risk services during 2016 and have the new or reappointed auditors in management across the group.
The risk management process is place ahead of the year ending September 2017. continually improving, in particular in relation to embedding across As Chairman of the committee, I have regular contact with the new and developing areas of the business.
external audit partner outside of committee meetings and without The committee believe that the improvements will continue to the management of the business present.
strengthen the way that the business understands and manages risk.
The group has a policy regarding the provision of non-audit services A summary of the key risks and uncertainties to which the business by the external auditors, based on common practice of a maximum is exposed to can be found on pages 28 and 29. audit to non-audit fee ratio of 1:1, except in exceptional circumstances.
Control over non-audit fees is exercised by ensuring External audit non-audit projects, where fees are expected to exceed 50,000, are subject to my prior approval and that of the Chief Financial Officer.
If The committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor non-audit fees on a certain project are expected to exceed and reviews effectiveness, performance and the independence of 150,000, prior approval of the committee is required.
We can the external auditor overall.
To assess effectiveness, the committee confirm that we are significantly below the 1:1 ratio in this financial held discussions with management on the audit process and based year as disclosed in note 7 in the reports and accounts.
