governance corporate governance report continued Over a long business career, His executive career included Committee membership: Gerald Corbett DL Gerald has been a director of Group Finance Director roles Nomination Chairman, Disclosure, Chairman and Chairman of 12 public companies, six of which with Redland plc and Grand Remuneration theNomination Committee he has chaired.
His most recent Metropolitan plc, and he was Other appointments: Appointed in 2005 roles were as Chairman of ChiefExecutive Officer of Betfair Group plc Chairman, Moneysupermarket.
com Group plc Railtrack between 1997 Numis Corporation plc Chairman between 2007 and 2014 and of and 2000.
SSL International plc between 2005 and 2010.
Simon is responsible for overseeing portfolio of brands including Committee membership: Simon Litherland the delivery of the companys Guinness, Johnnie Walker, Baileys, Disclosure, Executive Team Chief Executive Officer business strategy.
He joined Britvic Smirnoff and Captain Morgan.
In Other appointments: Appointed in 2013 in September 2011, initially as his earlier career he held a variety Incorporated Society of British Managing Director of Britvic GB.
of International Finance Director Advertisers ISBA, roles in Diageo, IDV and Grand Prior to this, he had a career President and Chairman of ISBA Metropolitan.
Council Hislast role was MD of Diageo GB, Simon qualified as a Chartered having previously run Diageos Accountant with Deloitte in businesses in South Africa, Ireland South Africa having gained a and Central and Eastern Europe.
business degree at the University During his time at Diageo, Simon of Cape Town.
was responsible for anextensive John Gibney was appointed Planning Manager for Bass plc, Committee membership: John Gibney Finance Director in 1999 and is and prior to that role, Finance Disclosure, Executive Team Chief Financial Officer responsible for finance, legal, estates, Director and subsequently Deputy Other appointments: Appointed in 2005 risk management, quality, safety Managing Director of Gala Clubs.
Interactive Screen Media Limited and environment and procurement.
John steps down from the board at Joint Venture resigned on He is also Chairman of Counterpoint, the AGM on 27 January 2016 after 10 November 2015 the Britvic licensed wholesale 16 years with the company.
Prior to joining Britvic, he was Senior Corporate Finance & Mathew Dunn joined the business of South African Breweries Committee membership: Mathew Dunn on 28 September 2015 and will Ltd, a division of SABMiller plc Disclosure, Executive Team Chief Financial Officer succeed John Gibney as Chief in South Africa, where he was Other appointments: Appointed on 25 November 2015 Financial Officer following the based since 2014.
He first joined None announcement of our Preliminary SABMiller plc in 2002 where he Results on 25 November 2015. held various financial planning and management, as well as leadership Prior to joining Britvic, Mathew positions.
was the Chief Financial Officer 34 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information governance corporate governance report continued From left to right: Ben Gordon Mathew Dunn Joanne Averiss Simon Litherland Gerald Corbett Bob Ivell John Daly Ian McHoul Ian was Finance Director of Committee of Premier Foods plc Committee membership: Ian McHoul Scottish & Newcastle plc and between 2004 and 2013, the last Audit Chairman, Nomination, Independent Non-Executive Finance and Strategy Director of year of which he was also the Remuneration Director and Chairman of the the Inntrepreneur Pub Group Ltd Senior Independent Director.
Other appointments: Audit Committee and spent ten years with Fosters Amec Foster Wheeler plc Appointed in 2014 Brewing Group in a variety of roles.
ChiefFinancial Officer He was a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Joanne is the Pepsi Group with legal responsibility for all of the Committee membership: Joanne Averiss Nominee Director.
She has been a Pepsi Groups business units within None Non-Executive Director member of the Pepsi Group legal Europe and Sub Saharan Africa.
Other appointments: Appointed in 2005 department since 1990, holding a The Mesen Educational Trust series of positions in the UK and Trustee and Chair the US and is currently Senior Vice President Law, General Counsel, Europe and Sub Saharan Africa John has held various executive 42% by BAT.
Prior to his time with Committee membership: John Daly leadership positions over the BAT, John held various sales and Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Independent Non-Executive course of 20 years at British marketing positions with Johnson Other appointments: Director American Tobacco plc BAT.
His & Johnson, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Appointed in 2015 Wolseley plc, most recent positions at BAT were Pennwalt Corporation and G4S plc Chief Operating Officer from 2010 Schering-Plough.
to 2014 and Regional Director for John will succeed Bob Ivell as Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong Senior Independent Director and from 2004 to 2010.
John remains Remuneration Committee Chairman a Director of Reynolds American from the conclusion of the AGM.
Inc. a US public company owned Bob has over 30 years experience Bob steps down as Senior Committee membership: Bob Ivell in the food and beverage industry, Independent Director and Remuneration Chairman, Senior Independent Director holding executive roles with Regent Remuneration Committee Audit, Nomination and Chairman of the Inns plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc Chairman, handing over to Other appointments: Remuneration Committee and Whitbread plc.
He was John Daly, from the conclusion Mitchells & Butlers plc Appointed in 2005 previously chairman of David Lloyd of the AGM but will remain on Non-Executive Chairman, Leisure Limited, Park Resorts the board.
Carpetright plc Group Limited, Next Generation Non-Executive Chairman, Clubs Pacific and a Non-Executive Charles Wells Limited Director of The Restaurant Group plc.
Non-Executive Director Ben was the former Chief Executive LOreal S. A. in France and in the Committee membership: Ben Gordon of Mothercare plc and former UK.
Ben has an MBA from INSEAD Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Independent Non-Executive Senior Vice President and and is a Member of the Institution Other appointments: Director Managing Director of Disney Store, of Civil Engineers.
St. Ives plc Non-Executive Director, Appointed in 2008 Europe and Asia Pacific.
He has Powerleague Group Limited also held senior management Chairman, positions with WHSmith group Canal & River Trust Trustee in the UK and the USA and Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 35 governance corporate governance report continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Risk Structure management Governance Code and capital and internal The board supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate controls Governance Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Strategy and Communication management September 2012, which applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012 the Code available at www.
This report describes how the principles of the Code are applied and Contracts reports on the companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
Board including In September 2014, a revised UK Corporate Governance Code was bank facilities, membership guarantees and published, which will apply to the company for the period ending 2 indemnities October 2016 and the company will report on its application in 2016.
Board responsibility The board considers that it has been in compliance with the provisions Corporate of the Code throughout the period ended 27 September 2015. governance Remuneration matters 2015 board programme The board provides strong and effective leadership within a framework Relationships Statement of of prudent and effective controls, and in accordance with the Code with authorities provisions there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved shareholders for board decision which defines the board from sub-committees Financial Policies and management.
This clear definition not only complements and reporting and controls strengthens the companys decisions, but builds the foundations of a solid business.
Although there is a standard agenda of items, these are regularly reviewed to ensure that the board provides continual effective leadership and drive towards the companys strategic aims.
Board meetings During the year, consideration and decisions taken by the board The board met ten times during the year in accordance with its have included: scheduled meeting calendar, excluding adhoc conference calls and committee meetings to approve the financial results.
An additional The Ebba acquisition in Brazil this was a major transaction five meetings were also convened to deal with key matters requiring involving the expansion of the groups activities into a new market the boards attention and major projects, primarily related to the with the acquisition of Empresa Brasileira fide Bebidas e Alimentos acquisition of Ebba.
The board meetings were held at the head S. A. Ebba, which successfully completed on 30 September office in Hemel Hempstead, except two meetings which were held 2015.
The inclusion of this new venture in the growth strategy of off-site in London and Miami.
The attendance by each board the company is another hugely significant milestone in the member is shown on page 42. development of Britvic and is explained further on page 15 Supply Chain Investment the desire to improve operating margin Executive management level committees has involved significant investment in existing production lines and the installation of a new flexible high speed PET bottling line in Leeds Matters Reserved for the Board and Statement of Authorities the General Counsel was tasked with ensuring that our governance framework was fit for purpose particularly given our international Executive ambitions and resulting change in our operating structure.
As a Team result, and after wide consultation with senior stakeholders, the Sustainable Incident Matters Reserved for Decision by the Board and Statement Business Management of Authorities were reviewed and adopted in line with our Committee Committee Be Disciplined value we are disciplined in our adherence to process, governance and management of risk Succession Planning subsequent to the announcement in May of John Gibneys Chief Financial Officer retirement in April 2016, Health Safety Architecture the Nomination Committee recommended to the board, which it & Wellbeing Board Group subsequently approved, the appointment of Mathew Dunn as the Committee new Chief Financial Officer and an executive member of the board with effect from 25 November 2015, together with the appointments of Joo Caetano fide Mello Neto Managing Director of Ebba following the completion of the acquisition of Ebba on 30 September Share Treasury 2015, and Hessel fide Jong who joined the company on 28 Allotment Committee September 2015 and succeeded Simon Stewart as International Committee Marketing Director with effect from 30 October 2015 as members Pensions of the Executive Team.
Committee Matters which the board consider suitable for delegation are contained in the terms of reference of its committees which, in line with the Code provisions, can be found on the companys website http: www.
Meet as and when required 36 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information governance corporate governance report continued Governance framework Shareholders 2,650 shareholders as at 27 September 2015 Board Chairman Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Nomination Remuneration Disclosure Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman 4 Non-Executive Directors 4 Non-Executive Directors Chairman CEO and CFO 4 Non-Executive Directors IR Director Provides oversight and Agrees remuneration policy Director of Corporate Affairs Primary responsibility for governance over the groups and sets individual Company Secretary succession planning, annual reporting, internal compensation levels for board director selection and controls, risk management directors and senior board composition and relationship with external management Provides assistance with auditors disclosures required under the Listing Rules and to help ensure that disclosure controls and procedures are properly implemented Committee Report pages Committee Report pages Committee and Directors Committee established on 46 to 47 43 to 45 Remuneration Reports pages 23 June 2015 48 to 49 The board The directors The board of directors currently has eight members, comprising the The biographical details of the board members are set out on pages Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, four 34 and 35.
All of the directors bring strong judgement to the boards independent Non-Executive Directors and the PepsiCo-nominated deliberations.
They have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in Non-Executive Director.
At all times there has been at least half of UK and or international companies including listed companies and the board, excluding the Chairman, who are independent Nonhave substantial experience across a range of businesses.
Other Executive Directors, in compliance with the Code.
than their fees, which are disclosed on page 56, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the company during the The board recognises that with the appointment of Mathew Dunn on year.
They also do not participate in any of the groups pension 25 November 2015 this will result in an increase in the number of schemes or in any of the groups bonus, share option or other Executive Directors on the board to three for the short period of time incentive schemes.
between Mathews appointment and John Gibney retiring from the board at the AGM on 27 January 2016, thereby increasing the ratio Re-election of directors of independent to non-independent directors to 4:4.
The companys articles of association provide that all directors will Further details on the companys ongoing recruitment plans are set stand for re-election at least every three years but in order to comply out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 47. with the Code, all of the directors submit themselves for re-election or election following first appointment at each annual general meeting.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 37 governance corporate governance report continued The different roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are The role of the board acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles The board is responsible for the long-term success of the company, has been agreed with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial respectively, and adopted by the board.
The board normally meets ten times each financial year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision During the year the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors making, including responsibility for the overall management and without the Executive Directors present to evaluate their performance of the group, and the approval of its long-term performance and the Non-Executive Directors met without the objectives and commercial strategy, approval of annual and interim Chairman present, to evaluate his performance.
results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, material agreements and major capital commitments, approval of treasury Executive team policies, and assessment of its going concern position.
The board has delegated appropriate responsibilities to the Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of executive team, the membership of which is shown below.
The each board or committee meeting.
This includes a detailed report on executive team meets 11 times a year and is responsible for the current trading and comprehensive briefing papers on matters day-to-day running of the business, carrying out agreed strategy where the board will be required to reach a decision.
Senior and implementing specific board decisions relating to the operation executives below board level attend board meetings where of the group.
appropriate to present business updates.
In addition, there are a number of committees which meet to There is an established procedure for the preparation and review by consider various issues involved in the day-to-day management the board of the annual budget.
The business reports monthly on its of Britvic and matters for recommendation to the board and its performance against its agreed budget.
Details of these committees are set out on page 36. monthly update on performance and reviews any significant variances at each of its meetings.
All major investment decisions are usually subject to post-completion reviews.
At least one of the boards regular meetings every year is devoted to reviewing and Simon Litherland agreeing the companys long-term strategy.
Chief Executive Officer Board committees See full biography on page 34.
The board is assisted by four board committees as shown on the governance framework diagram on page 37 to which it delegates specific responsibilities.
Each committee has full terms of reference that have been approved by the board and which can be found on our website at http: www.
John Gibney Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary until 25 November 2015 The Company Secretary maintains a record of attendance at board See full biography on page 34. meetings and committee meetings, further details of which are set out on page 42 and within the respective committee reports between pages 43 and 48.
The Company Secretarys other responsibilities include ensuring good information flows to the board and its committees and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors, advising the board on all legal and Mathew Dunn corporate governance matters, and assisting the Chairman in Chief Financial Officer ensuring that the directors have suitably tailored and detailed from 25 November 2015 induction and ongoing professional development programmes.
See full biography on page 34.
The role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the board, to ensure that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive Officer to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the board are implemented and provides support and appropriate advice to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, developing the groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the board, and implementing agreed strategy.
He is supported by the other members of his executive team.
38 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information governance corporate governance report continued Matt Barwell Doug Frost Chief Marketing Officer Plc HR Director Matt is responsible for all aspects of Britvics Doug Frost was appointed Human Resources global brand strategy and execution, Director in 2004.
He has since also assumed innovation, corporate affairs and the responsibility for IT and the Programme companys sustainability agenda.
Doug previously worked Britvic from Diageo in 2014 where he held a for 15 years with Mars Incorporated in number of senior positions over 15 years positions in manufacturing, sales and human including Marketing and Innovation Director resources.
He started his career in the UK, for Diageo Africa and later, Diageo Europe.
then worked across several continental Matt started his career with Mars where he European markets and latterly spent several worked for ten years in both the confectionary years in Brazil.
Matt is Chairman of the Advertising Associations Front Foot group and is a Fellow of The Marketing Society.
Paul Graham GB Managing Director Paul was appointed GB Managing Director on Kevin Donnelly 13 April 2015, having joined the business in Country Director, Britvic Ireland September 2012 as GB General Manager.
Kevin joined Britvic Ireland in September 2008 Before joining Britvic, he worked in a range of as Marketing Director and was appointed commercial roles for companies including Country Director in June 2013.
He has over Mars Confectionery and United Biscuits.
Paul 25 years experience in sales, marketing and has a BSc in Management Sciences from the general management in FMCG companies, University of Manchester and is a member of including Unilever and Dairygold.
Kevin holds the Executive Council of The British Soft a First Class Honours Degree in Marketing Drinks Association.
from Trinity College Dublin and a Post Graduate Diploma in Digital Marketing.
Clare Thomas General Counsel and Company Secretary Hessel fide Jong Clare Thomas joined the group as General International Managing Director appointed on 28 September 2015 as Counsel and Company Secretary in successor to Simon Stewart who resigned September 2013 and has responsibility for the on 30 October 2015 legal, audit and risk, company secretarial, estates and plc quality, safety and environment Hessel fide Jong joins Britvic with over 20 years teams.
Clare has a corporate and commercial of management experience in the FMCG legal background, and prior to joining Britvic industry.
Prior to joining Britvic, Hessel worked spent 15 years as a corporate M&A lawyer at as an advisor to a number of private equity law firm Addleshaw Goddard LLP, including six companies, including Blackstone and Bencis years as a partner with a particular focus on Capital Partners.
he was Managing Director of the Dutch and Benelux operations of the Coca Cola Company.
Before 2008, Hessel held various Jean-Luc Tivolle regional and global leadership positions at Heineken and SCA Group in Europe and Managing Director, Britvic France Asia.
Hessel is based in Amsterdam and Jean-Luc Tivolle was appointed Managing holds a Master of Business Administration Director of Britvic France in 2010, after 14 from INSEAD and a Bachelor of Business years as Vice-Chairman of Fruit Entreprises Administration from Nyenrode University.
SAS, which was acquired by Britvic at that time.
Prior to this, he held senior roles in Tetra Pak and a variety of positions at Chocolat Joo Caetano fide Mello Neto Poulain Cadbury Schweppes Group.
Managing Director, Ebba Brazil appointed on 30 September 2015 Joo Caetano fide Mello Neto joined Britvic following the acquisition of Ebba on 30 September 2015.
He brings with him over 30 years of executive management experience in the consumer goods industry.
Previously, Joo Caetano worked for Cia Mller fide Bebidas Caninha 51 where he spent 14 years and acted as Chief Executive Officer for seven.
He then worked for J. Macedo for seven years as Chief Executive Officer of Hidracor before moving to Ebba.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 39 governance corporate governance report continued engaged again during the year for the purpose of recruiting John Daly Senior Independent Director and, more recently, to assist with the search for a successor to John The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have Gibney, Chief Financial Officer, Silva Lagnado Non-Executive concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Director and Hessel fide Jong International Marketing Director.
Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Induction and development Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Chairman is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating an The Code provides that the length of tenure is a factor to consider when induction programme for newly appointed directors, including determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
The table presentations from senior management on different aspects of the below shows the tenure and independence of each of our Non-Executive business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and Directors since the date of their first election by shareholders.
liabilities as a director of a listed company.
Business familiarisation involves directors visiting sites in the UK, Ireland and France.
The Date first Years from Considered Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit group manufacturing first election to be elected by sites to enable them to gain a greater understanding of the groups to 2016 AGM independent by shareholders activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
Every the board director has access to appropriate training as required subsequent to 1 Gerald Corbett January 2007 9 his appointment and is encouraged to develop his understanding of the 2 Joanne Averiss January 2007 9 No company.
To strengthen the directors knowledge and understanding of 3 the company, board meetings regularly include updates and briefings John Daly - - Yes on specific areas of the companys activities and board meetings, where 2 Ben Gordon January 2009 7 Yes possible, are held offsite at other Britvic sites.
2 Bob Ivell January 2007 9 Yes Following John Dalys appointment to the board, the Company 2 Ian McHoul January 2015 1 Yes Secretary arranged an appropriate induction programme.
The programme was tailored based on his experience and background, Notes: 1.
The company considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent and the requirements of his role.
Acknowledging Johns in-depth for the purposes of provision A.
understanding of the UK company listing regime, his induction 2.
Joanne Averiss is Senior Vice President Law, General Counsel, Europe of Pepsico focused primarily on his role as a director and the role of the board and is the PepsiCo Non-Executive Director.
Accordingly, she is not considered to in general.
His induction has included one-to-one meetings with be independent by the board.
In addition to her fiduciary obligations to act in the individual members of the Executive Team and with the plc Finance best interests of the company, Joanne Averiss is required under her letter of appointment to discharge her duties in the interests of the company and Investor Relation Director as well as trade visits.
notwithstanding her connection with PepsiCo.
With the exception of Joanne Averiss the Non-Executive Directors are all independent of management and free Independent advice from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision B.
1.1 of the Code that could materially The board has approved a procedure for directors to take independent interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
professional advice at the companys expense if necessary.
Appointed on 27 January 2015 and will stand for election at the AGM.
advice was sought by any director during the year.
In addition, the directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Service contracts and letters of appointment Company Secretary.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Chairmans and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are set out Indemnification of directors in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 62.
The letters of In addition to the indemnity granted by the company to directors in appointment of Gerald Corbett, Joanne Averiss and Bob Ivell run to respect of their liabilities incurred as a result of their office in accordance 14 December 2017.
The letters of appointment of Gerald Corbett, with our articles of association, we maintain a directors and officers Joanne Averiss and Bob Ivell run to 14 December 2017.
The letters liability insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither our indemnity of appointment of Ian McHoul, Ben Gordon and John Daly run to nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a director has 10 March 2017, 14 April 2017 and 27 January 2018, respectively.
proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
These documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Risk management and internal control Conflicts of interest The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In The companys articles of association allow the board to authorise discharging that responsibility, the board confirms that it has established potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating conditions, as appropriate.
Any decision of the board to authorise procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These a conflict of interest, whether matter-specific or situational, is only procedures have been in place since the company listed and are effective if it is agreed without the participation of the conflicted regularly reviewed by the board.
director s, and in making such a decision, as always, the directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to Business performance is managed closely and the board and the promote the success of the company.
The company has an executive team have established processes, as part of the normal established procedure whereby actual or potential conflicts of interest good management of the business, to monitor: are reviewed annually and for the appropriate authorisation to be Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of progress sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if a new towards strategic objectives conflict arises.
The board previously authorised, as a potential conflict Monitoring and maintenance of insurance cover to insure all risk of interest, the Chairmans appointment as a member of the Advisory areas of the group Committee of Spencer Stuart, with whom the Nomination Committee, 40 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information governance corporate governance report continued Financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide and accounting framework, including budgeting and forecasting, reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial reporting, analysing variances against plan and taking misstatement or loss.
appropriate management action Management, with the assistance of the finance function, is Capital investment and asset management performance, with responsible for the appropriate maintenance of financial records detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews and processes.
This ensures that all financial information is relevant, The principal risks facing the business ensuring that the significant reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and risks faced by the group are being identified, evaluated and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review appropriately managed, giving consideration to the balance of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by of risk, cost and opportunity.
management to ensure that the financial position and results of the group are appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the The board is supported by the Audit Committee in reviewing the board and published where appropriate.
All financial information effectiveness of the groups risk process and internal control published by the group is subject to the approval of the board, systems.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Board performance evaluation 2015 evaluation Recommendations Actions agreed for 2015-16 Continue to focus on shorter-term succession As indicated above, recruitment is ongoing to find successors planning and for a successor to the Chairman.
for Bob Ivell and Silvia Lagnado.
Similarly, the search for a suitable successor to the Chairman will be undertaken during the next 12 months.
Meanwhile, the board has asked the Chairman to remain in office until such time as the new membership of the board is established to ensure that the board and its committees continue to have the right balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Implement a deeper succession plan and focus The board evaluation identified that there needed to be a stronger on talent management.
focus on the pipeline of talent covering the most senior executive positions in the business.
Increase the boards visibility to external Arrange for the board to receive a formal briefing from brokers investor concerns and updates.
In addition use the new board portal to ensure directors have access to the latest sector and company related broker notes.
Continue with opportunities for the Recent changes to the plc meeting calendar include the Non-Executive Directors to visit other sites opportunity for up to two board meetings per year to be held and to meet informally outside of board away from the head office.
Informal board dinners to be arranged meetings.
to enable discussions outside of the board room.
Focus on strategy and risk management.
In light of the increased governance focus on risk, the boards standard business agenda will include increased focus on risk and additional exposure on key strategic initiatives.
2014 evaluation Recommendations Actions agreed and delivered in 2014-15 Continue to focus on succession planning The board has given its approval for John Daly to succeed for a successor to the Senior Independent Bob Ivell as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Director and other key positions and on Remuneration Committee.
This will take effect from the AGM on talent management development.
Bob Ivell will remain on the board whilst the search for suitable replacement Non-Executive Directors for both Bob and Silvia Lagnado continues.
Silvia stepped down from the board on 31 July 2015 following her appointment as CMO of McDonalds and associated relocation to the USA.
Opportunities to develop relationships amongst Informal occasions when the board can be together without the board members and Non-Executive Directors management present were arranged as well as trade visits for to spend more time in the business, including the Non-Executive Directors.
Request for more updates on the board More time has been given on board agendas to update members committee activities.
of the board on the activities of the committees.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 41 governance corporate governance report continued Each year the performance of the board, its committees and directors The board scheduled ten meetings during the year and an additional is evaluated.
As required by the Code, every third year the evaluation five meetings were convened to deal with specific matters which should be conducted by an external advisor.
Following the externally required the boards attention between scheduled meetings.
These facilitated evaluation in 2013, the board felt it was appropriate to primarily related to the acquisition of Ebba.
Therefore, excluding ad conduct an internal board and committee review in 2015. hoc conference calls and committee meetings to approve the financial results, in total the board met 15 times during the year.
The 2015 evaluation was led by the Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The appraisal questionnaires used in the Shareholder engagement process were wide-ranging and based on questions outlined in the Code, covering both the performance of the board and its committees, Investor relations and that of the Chairman.
The questions were designed to encourage The board is committed to maintaining good communications with broad discussions on the performance and effectiveness of the board shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief and its procedures, as well as the effectiveness of the Chairman.
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have regular dialogue This years questionnaires incorporated two case studies to obtain with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an the boards feedback on the two-day strategy event and on the understanding of their views which is then discussed with the board.
Similarly, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee engages, at appropriate times, with shareholders on matters relating to The appraisal output is used to identify strengths and development Remuneration Policy for more details see page 49 of the Directors areas, and confirmed that the board and its committees were Remuneration Report.
All directors are offered the opportunity to operating effectively.
Individual performance was also appraised by meet with major shareholders to listen to their views and, in addition the Chairman following a meeting with each of the other directors.
to a monthly report prepared by the Chief Financial Officer, receive The findings were presented to the board and the Nomination regular reports prepared by an independent capital markets advisory Committee together with a proposed action plan.
The balance firm which provides comprehensive information relating to the between the board and its committees was felt to be appropriate companys major shareholders.
and no changes in this area were identified outside of the rotation of Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective directors agreed as part of the boards ongoing succession planning.
investors covering the annual and interim results and the company A table of actions arising from this and the prior years performance seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor evaluation is set out on page 41 and progress against these actions the companys governance policies and procedures.
The Strategic will be monitored by the board throughout the year.
Report set out on pages 2 to 29 details the financial performance of the company as well as setting out the risks it faces.
In light of the review, the board considers the performance of each director to be effective and has concluded that the board and its Private investors committees provide the leadership and control required.
The board We are keen to hear the views of our private shareholders and will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development we encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox investors@ in the financial year ahead, particularly in relation to succession britvic.
com for detailed inquiries and to access our website for our planning and in considering the balance of skills and expertise company reports and business information.
The website also needed to support the companys strategy, giving due consideration provides direct access to Shareview www.
co. uk which to all aspects of diversity, including gender.
enables shareholders to manage their shareholding account online.
Specific inquiries to the Company Secretary can be sent to the Secretariat mailbox company.
com or posted Attendance at meetings of the board to the registered office.
The attendance of directors at board meetings during the year was as follows: At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer gives a regular update on the positioning and outlook for the business.
Shareholders are Membership and Number of scheduled Number of other invited to ask questions formally during the meeting and to follow up meetings meetings attendance these discussions with directors on a one-to-one basis afterwards.
attended held attended held The chairmen of the board committees and the Senior Independent Director are present and available to respond to questions at the Gerald Corbett 10 10 5 5 AGM.
We look forward to welcoming all our shareholders to our Simon Litherland 10 10 5 5 2016 AGM in January and to updating them on our business John Gibney 10 10 5 5 developments.
Meetings attended by John Daly subsequent to his appointment on 27 January 2015.
Meetings attended by Silvia Lagnado up until her date of resignation on 31 July 2015.
