strategic report our strategy Generate profitable growth We have a clear strategy that is in our core markets We have well-established operations in GB, designed to realise our ambition to Ireland and France, with a broad portfolio of become the most dynamic, creative leading brands.
However, we see opportunities to improve our participation in both soft and admired soft drinks company in drink categories and sales channels.
For the world and supports our purpose example, in GB the water category is fast of making lifes every day moments growing and there is strong potential to increase the penetration of our Ballygowan more enjoyable.
water brand, which we launched last year.
Innovation will also be a key driver of growth.
Innovation is at the heart of our business and we bring to market new products that offer consumers drinks for their changing needs.
We continue to focus on disciplined revenue management, such as maximising the effectiveness of our promotions.
In GB and Ireland we partner with PepsiCo to manufacture, market and sell its range of brands including Pepsi, 7UP, Lipton Ice Tea and Mountain Dew.
The combination of the Britvic and PepsiCo brands gives us the most balanced portfolio in these markets and will continue to be a key aspect of our growth plans.
Key performance indicator net revenue growth Launch of Pepsi Max Cherry The Pepsi brand has continued to go from strength to strength in the past year.
Pepsi Max, with its maximum taste, no sugar position, is an important part of our health strategy and in the past year we have introduced a new flavour, Pepsi Max Cherry.
Pepsi Max is also a key part of the brands sponsorship of the UEFA Champions League.
J O Spritz launch 2 Earlier this year, we launched J O Spritz, 2 a low calorie, sparkling version of J O, to 2 give adults a more sophisticated soft drinks experience.
Available in three flavours Pear & Raspberry, Apple & Watermelon and Peach & Apricot, the range has already proved popular with consumers.
10 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements other information strategic report our strategy continued Exploit global opportunities Continue to step change Build trust and respect in in kids, family and adult our business capability our communities categories We recognise that we need the right people, We acknowledge the responsibility we have with the right capabilities to achieve our to contribute to our local economies and We have a number of brands in these vision and we continue to focus on developing society more broadly whilst minimising our categories, which have strong growth a winning culture.
Improving efficiency is a environmental impact.
We are embedding potential in a number of international priority across the business, to enable us to our sustainable business strategy across all markets.
Our approach to maximising the focus our resources against the future growth our business units to ensure that we deliver opportunity is twofold, either working with drivers.
We are committed to develop a a strong performance with integrity.
Key local partners through franchise, distribution best-in-class supply chain, which will deliver activity in support of this ambition includes or licensing agreements or making selective significant cost savings and unlock both the approach we have adopted to address acquisitions, where we can acquire strong revenue and margin growth opportunities.
public health challenges and tackling the local brands and routes to market.
carbon emissions associated with our Key performance indicators EBITA margin Our priority is to deliver on the potential that business activities.
growth, Great Place to Work survey we see for Fruit Shoot in the US and India Key performance indicators Business in and, of course, deliver the benefits from the the Community CR Index, average calories acquisition of Ebba.
Growth Performance Success per 250ml serve In 2014, we launched Growth - Key performance indicator Performance - Success GPS, a new net revenue growth Robinsons relaunch with no approach to performance management, added sugar learning and development and reward.
Fruit Shoot in the USA Robinsons is the UKs market leading GPS brings all of our core people We have achieved national distribution squash.
This year we relaunched the processes and tools into one framework of single serve Fruit Shoot in the past brand introducing new flavours and new with a clear link to our vision, strategic 12 months and are well-placed to recipes, to ensure we have the best goals and values.
Every employee was accelerate the growth of this format tasting squash on the market, as well as supported with a multi-media approach in the convenience and gas channel.
redesigning packs for better stand out to guide them, step by step through the In addition we have now established on shelf.
Given our commitment to play a process.
We also designed and delivered our route to market to leading role within the soft drinks in-house training and so far have launch into the grocery industry to help address the obesity supported 280 managers with this channel next year.
issue, we took the decision to no longer tailored in-house initiative.
New Leeds production line We have invested 25m in the installation of a new PET line at our Leeds factory.
The line will greatly improve productivity and marks the start of an investment programme to ensure the business is fit for purpose for the years ahead, with further investment planned for 2016.
There will be clear environmental benefits, such as less waste and greater energy efficiency, as a result of the investment.
Minimising carbon emissions This year we continued to address our Ebba acquisition environmental impact by reducing our carbon emissions, both direct and indirect.
In July we announced the acquisition of We have successfully reduced our business leading Brazilian soft drinks company, travel emissions by 11%, reducing mileage Ebba.
Brazil offers strong long-term and encouraging the use of greener, growth potential, despite the short-term lower emission and electric vehicles.
It is the sixth largest soft average fleet vehicle emissions CO g 2 drinks market globally, and the second km, including light commercial vehicles, largest liquid dilutes category in the decreased by 5.2% to 117.7g km since world.
We have acquired the two leading last year.
We have also continued to liquid dilutable brands, Maguary and offset our GB employee-related business Dafruta.
We intend to increase investment travel, supporting a deforestation project to drive these brands in their existing in the Amazon rainforest.
This project and new categories and see opportunities works with local communities to help to introduce Britvic brands into Brazil in preserve the biodiversity of this area of due course.
