BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination Committee report The Committee and its membership The Committees full terms of reference, reviewed and updated during the year, are available on the Companys website, or from the Company Secretary on request.
Committee members Member since Garry Watts Committee Chairman 1 January 2012 Giles Kerr 16 July 2008 Ian Much 1 January 2012 James OShea 13 May 2009 There were three Committee meetings during the year.
Details of attendance can be found on page 45.
Dear Shareholder, 54 The Committee is responsible for appointments Other attendees at Nomination Governance and reviewing the structure of the Board and its Committee meetings Committees.
The key objective of the Committee is The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings to ensure the Board has the balance of individuals by invitation.
who have the appropriate mix of skills, experience, The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary knowledge and expertise to lead the Company.
to the Committee Having regard for the key capabilities required for The key responsibilities of the Committee are: the Company to deliver its strategy, I was pleased To regularly review the structure, size and composition to be able to announce the move of Melanie Lee of the Board looking at its balance of skills, experience, from the Board to join the Leadership Team as independence and knowledge as well as its diversity Chief Scientific Officer.
including gender diversity and make recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes.
As a consequence, we took the opportunity to To identify, via a rigorous and transparent procedure, further diversify the breadth of experience on and nominate, for the Boards approval, suitable candidates the Board with the appointment of Susan Foden, to fill any vacancies for non-executive directors and, someone with rich experience in our sector, in with the assistance of the CEO, executive directors.
To plan for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
To recommend to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
Garry Watts Chairman of the Nomination Committee Time spent by the Committee during the year Diversity matters 8% Non-executive search 42% Succession planning and reappointment of directors 42% Governance other 8% BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 future years.
Arrangements are also made for each new Activities director to meet with the heads of the various business units The principal activities during the year related to: for a briefing on the areas of business in which the Company The appointment of Susan Foden as a is involved.
A review is undertaken of the content of recent non-executive director Board and Committee discussions including risk management The reappointment of the Chairman and non-executive reports, minutes and historical actions.
A briefing on corporate directors Giles Kerr and James OShea.
James and Giles governance and directors responsibilities may also be were each reappointed for 12 months, subject to being given and the opportunity to attend external courses is re-elected at the Annual General Meeting as they each also available.
had served on the Board for more than six years.
It is the expectation that any non-executive director reappointment Succession planning beyond six years would be made on an annual basis The development of talent below Board level is seen as Discussing succession planning for the Groups extremely important and an area of focus for the Board.
Leadership team, including the CEO and CFO and the 55 BTG continues to build an internal leadership pipeline Groups senior managers Governance for senior roles and the director of HR updates the Board Considering the expertise and capabilities as well as the regularly on progress.
In addition to traditional Management capacity required of the Groups management team and Development Programmes, the Group has expanded the wider employee group having regard to the Groups strategy learning and development opportunities for leaders of people and changing needs.
This remains an area of focus in light across the business, allowing a pool of talented leaders to of the continued rapid growth of the Group be created and increasing the probability of retaining them through meaningful development and career opportunity.
Appointment process The Committee also reviews succession plans and plans Following the resignation of Melanie Lee as a non-executive for emergency cover of key managers on a regular basis.
director to become the Groups Chief Scientific Officer, Susan Foden was appointed to the Board as an independent Diversity non-executive director.
The benefits of diversity across all areas of the Group are When considering Board appointments, the Committee recognised by the Board.
The Company had two female considers what areas of expertise would the Board most directors on the Board and following the appointment of benefit from and draws up a full description of the role, Susan Foden and the stepping down of Melanie Lee, the desired skills and capabilities accordingly.
Gender diversity Board retains its 25% female Board representation.
This is was an important part of the process, as was diversity in a percentage which the Company would like to retain in the background.
Russell Reynold Associates was appointed to future.
It is of the utmost importance to maintain strong support the appointment process, given their experience of leadership and we will therefore continue to appoint only fulfilling such roles and have not provided any other the most appropriate candidates to the Board.
recruitment services to the Company.
The policy on diversity applies across all levels of the Group The Committee carried out a rigorous interview and and further details can be found in the corporate responsibility selection process and shortlisted candidates were also section on pages 30 to 32. interviewed by the other non-executive directors and the CEO.
The Committee, taking into account the views of the Committee evaluation other directors and the Boards requirements recommended As part of the externally facilitated Board evaluation process, to the Board that Susan Foden be appointed as a nona review of the Committee was carried out and was found to be executive director and also as a member of the Remuneration functioning effectively, with clear and well-focused processes.
Committee, given her experience on other Boards.
Following a discussion, the Board accepted the recommendation and Susan Foden was appointed to the Board and as a member of Garry Watts the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 March 2015.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Following Susans appointment, and that of any new nonexecutive director, the Committee ensures that they receive a comprehensive induction programme.
As part of the induction process each new director is given a full briefing on the financial and operating history of the Company and details of its strategy, operating plans, budgets and forecasts for
