governance nomination Objective To lead the process for board and senior management committee appointments and to make recommendations to the board.
Gerald Corbett Responsibilities The committee is responsible for considering and recommending Nomination Committee Chairman to the board candidates who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors and for other senior management roles, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the company and on the board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the board.
Membership and meetings Number of meetings Membership and attendance attended held Gerald Corbett Chairman 6 6 1 John Daly 3 3 Bob Ivell 5 6 Ben Gordon 6 6 Ian McHoul 5 6 Notes: 1.
Meetings attended by John Daly subsequent to his appointment on 27 January 2015.
The committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors, John Daly, Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell, Ian McHoul and myself as Chairman of the committee.
The Chief Executive Officer also attends by invitation.
The committee meets as necessary and at least twice a year.
Main activities during the year The committee considered and has made recommendations to the board in respect of: The appointment of John Daly, Non-Executive Director The appointment of Mathew Dunn, Chief Financial Officer, who succeeds John Gibney and who will be appointed to the board on 25 November following the announcement of our preliminary results The search for a successor to Silvia Lagnado, Non-Executive Director, who resigned from the board on 31 July A review of the board and committee membership following the changes to the composition of the board The appointment of Hessel fide Jong, International Managing Director, as successor to Simon Stewart who resigned on 30 October, 2015 Succession planning for my role as Chairman A review of the findings of the 2015 board evaluation for more information see pages 41 to 42.
Details of the recruitment process are set out on the next page.
46 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information governance nomination committee continued Appointment of directors Diversity There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the The committee monitors diversity on behalf of the board.
At Britvic, appointment of new directors to the board, under which the we see diversity as a wider topic than simply gender and the board committee interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either recommend to the company that, in order to achieve its future by existing board members or by an external search firm.
Careful growth aspirations, it should remain committed to building a pipeline consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have enough of diverse talent and to regularly review its HR processes, including time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, recruitment and performance management frameworks.
knowledge and experience on the board is maintained.
When I am pleased to say that we continue to have a number of women in discussions relate to the appointment of my successor, the Senior senior management roles.
The directors view, however, remains that Independent Director chairs the committee instead of me.
When the we do not feel in a position to publish a target of the percentage of committee has found a suitable candidate, as Chairman of the women on the board.
Further details of the companys statistics on committee, I make a proposal to the whole board, which has gender diversity may be found on page 24 of the Strategic Report.
retained responsibility for all such appointments.
I also report on the outcome of committee meetings to the board.
Board evaluation During the year, we welcomed John Daly to the board.
Silvia Details of the review of the board and its committees, including this Lagnado stepped down from the board.
committee and my effectiveness as Chairman, undertaken during the year can be found on pages 41 to 42.
Appointment processes Having reviewed the results of the evaluation, the committee has The recruitment procedure described above was undertaken during confirmed to the board that the present board and its committees the year for the appointments of John Daly and Mathew Dunn, Chief continue to operate effectively and that all of the Non-Executive Financial Officer, who joins the board on 25 November 2015.
The Directors remained independent, with the exception of Joanne committee engaged Spencer Stuart, which held no other relations Averiss PepsiCo-nominated Director in accordance of the Code with the company, as the search consultancy, and the following and should stand for re-election or election in the case John Daly process was undertaken: at the AGM.
Role profiles were prepared against which potential candidates were considered As Chairman, I interviewed an initial list of candidates, from which a shortlist of preferred candidates was selected Other Non-Executive and Executive board members interviewed the shortlist of candidates and provided feedback to the committee The committee considered these views in its deliberations before recommending a preferred candidate to the board The board approved the appointment as recommended.
Succession planning Succession planning has continued to be an area of focus of the committee during the year.
This has included the independence of longer standing members of the board, in particular, Bob Ivell, SID and my role as Chairman.
Accordingly, it has been agreed that Bob, who reaches his tenure as an independent director at the AGM, will not retire from the board at the AGM but that John Daly will take on his role as SID and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Whilst Bob will no longer be counted as independent in compliance with the Code from the conclusion of the AGM, the board is unanimous in its view that it would be in the best interests of the company and its shareholders that he should remain on the board until it is satisfied that a suitable successor has been identified to replace him.
The committee is in the process of recruiting for a successor to Silvia Lagnado, Non-Executive Director, with appropriate international marketing experience.
It also recently made a recommendation to the board which resulted in the appointment of a successor to Simon Stewart, International Managing Director.
Whilst these changes unfold and until the new membership of the board is established I have willingly agreed to stay on as Chairman to ensure that the board and its committees continues to demonstrate effective leadership and the right balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
