Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Management Board Jerome Abelman Jack Bowles Alan Davy Director, Legal & External Affairs and General Counsel 52 Regional Director, Asia-Pacific 52 Director, Operations 52 Nationality: US Nationality: French Nationality: British Jerry was appointed Director, Legal & Jack became Regional Director for Alan was appointed to the Management External Affairs and General Counsel Asia-Pacific in January 2013.
Joining Board as Group Operations Director on 1 May 2015, having joined the the Group in 2004, he was Chairman inMarch 2013.
He joined the Group Management Board as Group of British American Tobacco France in1988 and has held various roles in Corporate & Regulatory Affairs in2005, before taking up the role of manufacturing, supply chain and Director in January 2015.
He has been Managing Director of British American general management.
Alan previously with the Group for 13 years and has Tobacco Malaysia in 2007.
He joined held the position of Group Head of held a number of roles in Legal.
the Management Board as Regional Supply Chain.
Jerry was Regional General Counsel, Director for Western Europe in Asia-Pacific from 2010 to 2014, before October 2009 before becoming becoming Assistant General Counsel Regional Director for the Americas Corporate & Commercial.
Jerry inOctober 2011. joined the Board of the Groups associate company, Reynolds American Inc. on4 February 2016.
Giovanni Giordano Andrew Gray Tadeu Marroco Director, Group Human Resources 50 Director, Marketing 51 Director, Business Development 49 Nationality: Italian US Nationality: Brazilian British Nationality: Brazilian Giovanni joined the Management Andrew was appointed Marketing Tadeu joined the Management Board Board of British American Tobacco Director in September 2014.
He joined as Business Development Director in inJune 2011.
He is an international the Management Board as Regional September 2014.
In addition to his human resources executive with wide Director for Africa and the Middle East role leading Strategy and M&A, experience from senior roles at Procter in January 2008 before being Tadeuis responsible for IT, including & Gamble and Ferrero, where he was appointed Regional Director for the roll-out of the Groups revised Chief Corporate Officer.
Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa operating model and single IT EEMEA in January 2011.
Tadeu joined Souza Cruz as an intern in 1986, he BritishAmerican Tobacco in Brazil went on to hold a number of senior over20years ago.
He has held various management positions in South senior finance positions, including America and the Caribbean including Regional Finance Controller, EEMEA, President of Souza Cruz and also and Group Finance Controller.
50 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Dr David OReilly Ricardo Oberlander Naresh Sethi Group Scientific Director 49 Regional Director, Americas 52 Regional Director, Western Europe 49 Nationality: British Nationality: Brazilian Nationality: Australian Indian David was appointed Group Scientific Ricardo joined the Management Board Naresh was appointed Regional Director in January 2012.
He has been as Regional Director for the Americas Director for Western Europe in January with British American Tobacco for over in January 2013.
He has over 20 years of 20 years and has held various positions in May 1989 and has held various roles experience in the tobacco industry, in Group Research and Development.
including Marketing Director of our holding various marketing roles in He has led the Groups R&D efforts to Malaysian business, Regional India, Indonesia, West Africa and develop reduced toxicant products Marketing Manager for the Americas, Australasia before moving to Japan.
and has also been Head of General Manager in France and Global Hewas Marketing Director in Japan International Public Health & Scientific Consumer Director.
Ricardo joined the and then the Groups General Affairs, responsible for engagement Board of the Groups associate Manager.
He became Group Head with the scientific, medical and public company, Reynolds American Inc. ofStrategy and Planning and was health communities.
inDecember 2014 and was appointed appointed Director, Group Business to the Chief Marketing Officer CMO Development in 2012.
Council Latin America Advisory Board on 3 February 2016.
Johan Vandermeulen Kingsley Wheaton Regional Director, Eastern Europe, Managing Director, Middle East and Africa 48 Next Generation Products 43 Nationality: Belgian Nationality: British Johan joined the Management Board Kingsley was appointed Managing as Regional Director for Eastern Director, Next Generation Products, in Europe, Middle East and Africa in January 2015.
He joined the Group in September 2014.
He has been with 1996 and has held a number of roles in British American Tobacco for more Marketing.
He was Marketing Director than 20 years and was previously in Nigeria and Russia, before becoming General Manager in Russia, General General Manager in Russia.
He was Manager in Turkey and in the then the Global Brand Director marketing function he was Global responsible for the Kent and Vogue Brand Director for the Kent brand.
brands, before taking his place on the Management Board in January 2012 asDeputy Corporate and Regulatory Affairs Director.
In June 2012 he was appointed Director, Corporate and Regulatory Affairs.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 51
