BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report We have continued our focus on corporate governance as the business has continued to grow.
Dear Shareholder, 40 At BTG we are committed to achieving high Governance standards of corporate governance which we believe is fundamental to the success of our business.
The Board is ultimately responsible for this and looks to improve standards as part of building a successful Company.
We have a strong governance framework embedded within the culture of our organisation which goes beyond compliance to the integrity with which we operate.
The standards of behaviour we require from our employees are guided by our Code of Conduct with its underlying supporting policies, procedures and management processes.
During Garry Watts the year the Company has continued to grow both Chairman organically and by acquisition and as it does so, the principles of good governance give us the infrastructure for long-term success and will enable us to achieve our strategic goals.
We seek to apply BTGs approach to governance following an acquisition, such as following the PneumRx transaction, to ensure governance is well embedded throughout the Group.
As part of our growth strategy we have, during the year, commenced direct sales in a number of European geographies.
As a part of that expansion, we have focused on establishing effective governance controls.
The annual Strategy Day is an essential part of the Board calendar and is a crucial area of focus.
Regular Board meetings also concentrate on strategic progress and forward planning as well as operational issues, resulting in well informed debate and decision making.
Key actions in 2014 15 To achieve this requires the right leadership and Review and evolution of our approach accordingly the Board is composed of directors to risk management with a range of professional and sector-specific External Board evaluation experience.
The balance of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure we continue to have the right Integration of PneumRx skills and experience to operate in a fast-changing Expansion of our governance framework environment.
During the year we have seen a change to oversee operations in new geographies to the Board, with Dr Melanie Lee leaving to take up BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Compliance with the UK Corporate the position of Chief Scientific Officer of the 41 Company, and the appointment of Dr Susan Foden Governance Code the Code Governance to the Board and Remuneration Committee.
Details The Company supports the principles of the 2012 edition of of directors can be found on pages 38 and 39. the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with shareholders and all members of Statement of Compliance the Board make themselves available to meet with the provisions of the Code any shareholders throughout the year.
Louise held over 150 meetings with investors, including current The Board considers that the Company has complied fully shareholders, and Rolf met with over 60 investors.
with the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2015.
The Company has not undertaken a tender of audit services Louise also presented at a number of conferences but has considered carefully the applicable regulations attended by existing and potential shareholders.
regarding audit firm rotation and the performance and Communications with shareholders are coordinated independence of the current auditor KPMG, and recommends during the year by the Vice President of Corporate their reappointment.
Further details are provided on page 52 and Investor Relations, who reports directly to of the Audit Committee report.
In September 2014, the FRC the CFO.
published a new edition of the Code, applicable to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
Next years The Companys AGM will be held on 15 July 2015 report will comment on the Companys compliance with the and as usual the Board will be available to new provisions and it will aim to comply fully with the revised meet investors.
However, the Company has sought to reflect these Our corporate governance report can be found provisions in its current practices where possible.
This corporate governance report, together with the directors on pages 40 to 49 and includes our statement of remuneration report, explains how the Company has applied compliance with the Code and its principles on the principles of the Code.
The directors remuneration report can The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, is required to review be found on pages 56 to 75. whether this corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Garry Watts Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules of the Chairman UK Listing Authority.
Having conducted such a review KPMG is obliged to report if it considers this statement of corporate governance does not reflect such compliance.
The Company confirms that no such report has been made.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued Governance framework This report details how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code: Leadership The Board and its Committees Audit Committee The Board Risk Committee Assists the Board on the The Board is responsible for the Responsible for monitoring oversight of financial results, long-term success of the Company risks throughout the organisation internal control and management and the overall management of and assessing the effectiveness of risk and compliance.
the business and has a schedule of the risk control and mitigation of matters reserved specifically measures implemented by for its decision or approval.
The Read more on page 50 the Group.
Board determines strategy and 42 risk appetite.
Governance Remuneration Committee Internal Audit Determines executive director and Testing of the effectiveness of senior management remuneration, the internal control systems.
and ensures the policy supports the Companys strategy.
Disclosure Committee Read more on page 56 Responsible for ensuring the Companys compliance with applicable Nomination Committee transparency and Considers the structure, size and disclosure obligations.
composition of the Board and its Committees and overseas succession planning for senior roles.
The Leadership Team The Leadership Team Read more on page 54 is chaired by the CEO and members include the CFO and senior management from Portfolio Review Board different areas of the Ensures BTG is investing in its assets efficiently and in relation to opportunities with wellbusiness.
targeted business cases where the value to the customer and to BTG is clearly understood and The team is responsible articulated.
Oversees the definition of activities and priorities of the Innovation Leadership for the day-to-day running Team and Development Leadership Team.
of Group operations and for making recommendations Innovation Leadership Team to the Board on the Investigates the opportunity to develop new products, product line extensions and new Companys strategy indications to address identified unmet medical needs, providing strategic and operational and subsequent leadership of innovation activities up to proof of principle in man.
It also ensures the Development Leadership Team internal controls in place Evaluates and is intimately involved in the definition and execution of development activities, to manage and assess beyond proof of principle in man, to support the Companys commercial strategies.
risk are fully complied with.
The fundamental elements of the Groups Operational Leadership Team internal control and risk Responsible for ensuring that the manufacturing and supply chain are tightly controlled and their management framework operations are optimised, as far as practicable, meeting all applicable regulatory requirements.
This includes responsibility Global Quality Leadership Team for maintaining a system Reviews progress with overall Quality Strategy and objectives, this includes inspection to ensure that the Group readiness, QMS effectiveness and enhancements, product delivery on time and to required is compliant with all quality, safety and efficiency.
applicable healthcare compliance laws such as US Federal and State Performance Management Review requirements that Monthly meeting of the Leadership Team and senior staff to review progress against business relate to the commercial plans and targets, both financial and operational.
operations of the Group including the activities of the US sales and Corporate Responsibility Committee marketing team.
Ensures the Group maintains high standards in this area.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Board of Directors Effective division of responsibilities A Board and Committees meeting programme is set annually for core activities which forms the basic structure The Chairman of Board operation.
Garry Watts joined the Board on 1 January 2012 and has been Chairman since that date.
He is responsible for leading the Board, While, as a unitary board, the executive and non-executive creating conditions for overall Board and individual director directors are collectively responsible for the success of the effectiveness, promoting constructive debate and for ensuring: Company and have fiduciary duties to shareholders, their A robust decision making process is in place by ensuring the appropriate information is made available to the Board in a roles are strictly delineated.
The roles of the Chairman and timely manner and that clear decisions are made, communicated Chief Executive are separate and distinct and the division of and effected.
The executive directors have That the Board devotes adequate time to the right issues, direct responsibility for the business operations of the such as its role in shaping strategy and managing risk.
That the Board environment is productive and the composition Company, while the non-executive directors are responsible and diversity, experience and expertise of the Board and its for bringing independent and objective judgment to Board Committees is appropriate having regard to the Companys needs.
43 decisions and the Chairmans primary responsibility is for the The Board discharges its responsibilities with respect to Governance risk management.
effective running of the Board.
The non-executive directors Board Committees are properly structured with appropriate duties include helping to develop the Companys strategy, terms of reference, membership and collective experience.
shaping proposals on succession planning and constructively Necessary relationships of mutual respect and open challenging the executive directors where they consider communication are fostered between directors, with non-executive directors providing support and advice while it appropriate.
Effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Matters reserved specifically for the Board include: 1.
Reviewing the overall strategic development of the Executive directors Company and setting its objectives, direction and policies, Louise Makin, CEO, is primarily responsible for the running of the whilst ensuring the necessary financial and human Group and for executing the Group strategy in line with the risk appetite resources are in place to support strategy.
Determining defined by the Board and the Company values.
Rolf Soderstrom, CFO, is responsible for all financial reporting, tax and financial control the significant risks that the Company is willing to take aspects of the Group, providing support to the CEO and the wider to achieve its strategic aims and ensuring effective risk business activities of the Group as required.
In addition the executive management controls are in place.
directors are also responsible for: 2.
Setting budgets and long-term plans.
Approving major Communicating to the Board their views on business issues to improve the standard of Board discussion and, prior to final decision investments, acquisitions and disposals, major capital on an issue, explaining in a balanced way any divergence of view in expenditure and dividend policy.
Monitoring and reviewing Company and management Providing input to the strategy formulation process to enable an effective and evidence based approach and to ensure that the Board performance and making key risk decisions.
is well informed about all aspects of the business and its operation 4.
Appointment which bear on its strategy.
or removal of any director or the Company Secretary.
Delivering high quality information to the Board to enable it to 5.
Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary monitor the performance of the whole business including the management of risk, and to make critical decisions.
and interim financial and management statements, and major public announcements.
Succession planning, health, safety and environmental The Senior Independent Director SID performance and standards of ethical and social behaviour.
Giles Kerr has been the Companys SID since July 2008 and as such 7.
Developing robust corporate governance, legal, his principal role is to support the Chairman in his role and to work compliance, quality and risk management procedures with him and other directors to resolve any significant issues that may arise.
He is also responsible for: aimed at safeguarding the Companys reputation and Supporting the Chairmans delivery of objectives, and leading assets, staff and patients and meeting its legal, regulatory his evaluation.
and other obligations and ensuring the integrity of its Leading the non-executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman financial information and business conduct.
Agreeing and and ensuring there is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and CEO.
overseeing the application of an appropriate corporate Being available to shareholders to express concerns which governance framework.
the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would 8.
Ensuring the proper discharge of the Companys statutory be inappropriate.
and other legal, regulatory and ethical responsibilities.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors bring wide-ranging skills and experience for the Board to draw on.
They provide independent judgment and constructively challenge matters such as Company performance, strategy and risk management.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued Board activity during the year: PneumRx acquisition Activity over the year encompassed a number of typical Following the acquisition of PneumRx, in addition to cyclical items, such as approval of the 2015 16 budget, seeking to grow the RePneu coil business, there has preliminary results announcement, 2015 Annual Report been a focus on integrating PneumRx into the BTG Group and Accounts and the 2014 interim financial statements governance framework covering aspects such as financial and announcement.
Other matters included: controls, healthcare compliance, quality, environmental health & safety, and risk management.
Regular reviews of risk management.
A Strategy Review day to allow the Board to Risk management process oversee progress Commercial launch of Varithena in the US We recognise that whilst risk is inherent in our business, it is critical that we define and operate an effective risk The progression and ultimate approval of the management process.
As such we have continued to evolve acquisition of PneumRx our approach to ensure risk management is embedded 44 Go-direct in Europe launch plan for DC Bead in each of the business units.
We have enhanced the risk and the establishment of direct sales in Taiwan Governance management function to better support the work of the Bioclon litigation Risk Committee and increased tracking and reporting of Acquisition of manufacturing facility in the UK key risks and progress with mitigations to the Leadership Analysts review Team and the Board.
Pension investment strategy The enhanced framework is intended to ensure risk is Expansion of Camberley site both managed effectively on a day-to-day basis within the Feedback from investors business units but also that key risks are transparent to the Board and integral to our strategy discussions.
Governance matters included review of the Board and committee evaluations and recommendations from the Board committees, such as proposed amendments to the terms of reference for each of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Strategy day Having transitioned the Company from being a licensing and development vehicle, following the launch of Varithena in 2014 the Company had evolved to become a specialist healthcare business focusing in the areas of interventional vascular Varithena and EKOS and interventional oncology Therasphere and Beads.
The Company continued to consider other developing areas of interventional medicine represented by unmet patient needs and market opportunities.
The strategy review highlighted interest in the area of interventional pulmonology following which the acquisition of PneumRx during the year has established the Company as a leading business in this area.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Attendance by individual directors at Board and Committee meetings since the last Annual Report Board and committee Committee Board Nomination Audit Remuneration composition and attendance memberships Independent meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings held 7 3 3 5 Number of meetings attended Executive directors Louise Makin CEO None No 7 7 n a n a n a Rolf Soderstrom CFO None No 7 7 n a n a n a Non-executive directors 2 1 Garry Watts Nom No 7 7 3 3 n a n a 2 Giles Kerr Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 7 7 2 3 3 3 4 5 5 Melanie Lee Rem Yes 1 2 n a n a 1 1 45 2 Ian Much Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 7 7 3 3 3 3 5 5 Governance 3 James OShea Nom, Rem Yes 6 7 2 3 n a 2 2 Richard Wohanka Aud Yes 6 7 n a 3 3 n a 4 Susan Foden Rem Yes 2 2 n a n a 2 2 1 Garry Watts is excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of his role as Chairman of the Company.
3 James OShea was only a member of the Remuneration Committee from 25 September 2014 to 1 March 2015 and attended all applicable meetings.
4 Susan Foden joined the Board on 1 March 2015.
5 Melanie Lee resigned as director and member of the Remuneration Committee on 25 September 2014.
Notes Richard Wohanka was unable to attend the July Board meeting and AGM due to a standing engagement in place prior to his appointment to the Board.
Giles Kerr did not attend one Nomination Committee meeting where his reappointment was discussed and one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a late change of venue.
James OShea did not attend one Nomination Committee meeting where his reappointment was being discussed and one Board meeting due to a pre-arranged engagement.
The external auditor usually attends the Audit Committee meetings and the remuneration advisers usually attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
The table shows, for each director, number of meetings attended number of meetings eligible to attend.
Additional specific Board sub-committee telephone meetings were held as appropriate to approve specific business activities such as the acquisition of PneumRx.
There were Board update calls when there was a larger break between scheduled meetings.
Board by gender Board composition, membership Male 75% and election of directors Female 25% The Board currently comprises six non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and two executive directors.
On 25 September 2014, having served as a non-executive director since 2010, Melanie Lee resigned from the Board to take up the position of Chief Scientific Officer for the Company.
Following an extensive recruitment process, Susan Foden joined the Board as non-executive director on 1 March 2015.
Susan has a strong background in the field of Biotech and Healthcare and her significant industry experience offers a Balance of directors great benefit to the Company as growth plans are implemented.
Chairman 1 The names and brief biographical details of all the current Executive directors 2 directors are set out on pages 38 and 39.
The Company Non-executive directors 5 recognises the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, and, following the changes, 25% of the members of the Board are women.
Details of gender diversity in the Group below Board level can be found in the corporate responsibility area of the strategic report on pages 30 to 32.
The change of directors during the year did not affect the gender balance of the Board.
As reported in the Nomination Committee report on page 54, the Committee reviews the Tenure of non-executive directors and Chairman composition of the Board on a regular basis to ensure that, as the business evolves, the Board continues to have the More than 6 years 2 4-6 years 1 necessary skills to support the development of the business.
2-4 years 2 All non-executive Board appointments are for three-year 0-2 years 1 terms, subject to re-election at each years AGM, apart from Giles Kerr and James OShea, who were each reappointed for a one-year term, having both served on the Board for more than six years.
Following the formal evaluation process, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the directors continues to BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to their When they join the Company, each director receives a role, including time for Board and Committee meetings and comprehensive induction package.
The induction process their other duties.
includes written information and is tailored to their experience.
Sue Foden joined the Company in March and met with appropriate members of staff and visited different Independence Company sites.
The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy The time commitment of the non-executive directors itself that its non-executive directors remain independent.
depends on the number of committees that they are a The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive member of but the expectation is that they would normally directors every year, using its own judgment when applying work approximately two days per month, subject to any the criteria in the Code.
Having undertaken this review, the increased demand driven by business activity.
Board confirms that all the non-executive directors are All directors refresh their knowledge regularly through considered to be independent in character and judgment.
publications and conferences and through information In line with the recommendations of the Code, at least half 46 provided by the Company and its advisers.
Specific training the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent nonGovernance during the year has included updates on social, environmental executive directors.
Garry Watts was considered to be and ethical matters.
independent at the time of his appointment although, in accordance with the Code, he is excluded from the There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent determination of whether at least half the Board are professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
They also have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Company also provides Conflicts of interest appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
To address the effect of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association enable the Performance evaluation Board to authorise situations that might give rise to directors The Board recognises that a review of its own performance conflicts of interest.
Directors complete a declaration form is beneficial in ensuring its continued effectiveness and in order to determine whether any actual or potential development.
The forms are reviewed annually The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of to ensure that the information provided is up to date and the CFO.
The Chairman and non-executive directors review includes any disclosures made during the past year.
the performance of the CEO.
The non-executive directors led At the March 2015 Board meeting all directors were asked to by the SID and following input from the executive directors, review and make any necessary amendments to their existing evaluate the performance of the Chairman each year.
The Company Secretary has reviewed the latest The Committees also review their performance and report declarations and has confirmed that no conflicts have arisen.
the results to the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
Board members are regularly reminded to disclose any The non-executive directors meet at least once a year conflicts should they arise.
Any such notifications are kept in a without the executive directors in order to discuss the conflicts register maintained by the Company Secretary.
Any performance of the executive directors and any concerns director who considers they may have a potential conflict of over their management of the Companys affairs.
interest is required to report this to the Chairman in the first The Corporate Governance Code the Code requires that instance, who may consult the Nomination Committee and the evaluation be carried out by external consultants at report its findings to the Board.
For the last two years the evaluation had been carried out internally via a series of web-based Effectiveness comprehensive questionnaires.
This year, SCT consultants, who had carried out the evaluation three years ago, were Information, training and support again asked to facilitate the evaluation.
In advance of each meeting the directors receive an agenda and a full set of papers for each item to be discussed via a The review was based on a number of things, including secure Board portal, accessible on an electronic device.
observation, a questionnaire, analysis of documentation and Directors receive sufficiently detailed strategic and interviews, both with the Board and the Leadership Team.
The Board calendar includes an annual The process confirmed that the Board provided effective strategy day and senior executives regularly attend meetings leadership to the Group, being well structured with a broad to enhance the non-executive directors understanding of range of skills and the right expertise.
It is well chaired and the business and current issues and to make presentations works in a robust, evidence-based and decisive way.
on the results and strategies in their areas of responsibility.
Board meetings are occasionally held at different office locations in the UK and US enabling non-executive directors an additional opportunity to visit other Company sites.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Progress had been made against the objectives set for The criteria applied by the directors, in judging the effectiveness last year: of these controls, are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities whilst To respond to the growing complexity of the business as well ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed and as pace of activity leading to the requirement for increased the Groups legal, regulatory and other obligations are met.
communication, additional Board calls were set up.
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they To continue to improve the monitoring of progress on enable the proper management of business risks.
delivering the strategy and its component parts and To strengthen the control framework of the business, the understanding the long-term sustainability of the business Group has established an Internal Audit group supported model.
Further To continue to focus on people and leadership development information can be found in the Audit Committee report on and succession planning ensuring the Group has adequate pages 50 to 53. capability and capacity in terms of people and resources to meet its diversifying objectives.
Structure and reporting 47 The Group has a well-defined management structure with Following the evaluation by SCT consultants this year, Governance clear lines of responsibility and accountability.
The Board the Board objectives are to: is responsible for setting the overall strategy and reviewing Continue evolution of the development of the approach the performance of the Group.
to risk management including deep dives on key risks The Leadership Team generally meets weekly and more and top down risk reviews, integrating the risk and formally on a monthly basis to review business performance strategy discussions.
measured against annual budgets, longer-term plans, an Enhance the annual strategy review with additional interim agreed set of objectives and performance criteria for each discussions regarding specific elements of the strategy.
In addition, it will assess and respond to issues Continue progression with enhancing the capabilities of the arising across the Group.
Forecasts are monitored monthly Group, including those of the Board and having in place on the basis of detailed reviews of progress and prospects.
succession plans for senior staff and Board members, Reporting to the Board is based on the information provided taking into account its evolving strategy.
to and reviewed by the Leadership Team as well as their Continue to enhance the induction programme for new assessment and recommendations regarding how to deliver directors, tailored for individual needs and understanding.
The reports include non-financial as well as financial information and a review of progress within Accountability the development portfolio.
Financing reporting and internal control Compliance and the review of risk and risk management are The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the embedded throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee has preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 78 reviewed the detailed reports on Risk, Internal Audit and and the auditors statement on the respective responsibilities Compliance and reported its findings to the Board see the of directors and the auditor is included within its report set out Audit Committee report on pages 50 to 53 for more detail.
The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that ongoing processes and systems ensure that Communications with shareholders, such as results the Group continues to be compliant with the guidance on announcements, interim reports, annual reports or AGM and internal control issued by the Code.
trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved by the Board, or a sub-committee of the Board, to ensure they are The Group has a system and key experts responsible for accurate, transparent, balanced and understandable in the supporting the protection and maintenance of patents and view they give of the Companys progress and prospects.
other intellectual property rights on the products in which BTG has an interest.
The Group also actively monitors its The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the royalty revenue streams and from time-to-time will audit its Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and major licensees to ensure compliance with the terms of the risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the detailed monitoring of the controls, at least annually, and Delegated authority structures ensure that decisions are reports to the Board on its findings.
The Board has reviewed taken at an appropriate level, with an appropriate level of the system of internal controls including financial controls for input by internal and external expert advisers.
The delegated the year under review and up to the date of approval of this authority structure prescribes financial limits of approval at Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to each level and requires decisions with significant financial, manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve legal risk or reputational impact for the Group to be approved business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not by the Board.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued Under the various revenue sharing agreements, the Group Corporate policies, values and compliance pays a share of any income it receives to Oxford University All employees receive periodic training on the key or Isis Innovations, depending on the specific technology requirements of BTGs Code of Conduct.
It covers all aspects of that generated the income.
As the revenue sharing ethics, business practices and compliance, including a agreements do not permit these organisations to have any whistle-blowing policy, an anti-bribery and anti-corruption input over the commercialisation of the licensed products policy and policies related to the ethical conduct of research or the amount payable under the relevant revenue sharing and development and interactions with doctors and other agreement, Giles Kerr is not able to influence the amounts healthcare professionals.
Relevant employees meet regularly received in his position outside the Group.
Because he has to discuss external changes in the regulatory, legal and no influence over any aspect of these agreements in his financial environments in which the Group operates to ensure role outside the Group, the Company considers that his it remains fully compliant with new legislation and best independence in relation to the Group is not compromised.
Periodic lunch and learn sessions are run updating staff on key issues affecting the business and online tools are Within the Group, to avoid any possible conflict of interest, utilised for training.
it has been agreed that Giles Kerr will not participate in any 48 discussions or decisions concerning the relevant agreements The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed Governance either within the Board or in any other discussions or meetings the effectiveness of the internal controls of the Group.
with the executives of its subsidiaries.
The controls described above operate and are embedded within the day-to-day business.
There is an ongoing process The Board has considered, and is satisfied with, the separation for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks of duties and safeguards.
A reporting structure has been in place On 4 December 2014 the Company completed a placing of throughout the year up to the date of approval of the financial 18,867,925 new ordinary shares at a price of 7.95 per share, statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors and is in raising a total of approximately 150m before expenses.
Further information is given in the The purpose of the placing was to fund the completion of the Audit Committee report on pages 50 to 53. acquisition of PneumRx which was announced on 4 December BTG places great emphasis on the embedded behaviours 2014 and completed on 8 January 2015.
As part of that and values that define the Company and have been integral placing, Invesco Asset Management who immediately prior to in building the Company that it is today and believe them to be the undertaking of the placing held 22.95% of the issued share key for continuing success.
A Companywide meeting is held capital of the Company subscribed for 3,255,000 ordinary each month where all sites join via videoconference.
Louise shares at the placing price representing a total consideration Makin updates employees on different aspects of the at the placing price of 25.9m, representing 0.896% of the business and presentations are given by employees from market capitalisation of the Company as at the close of all areas of the business.
The completion of the placing resulted in Invesco holding a total of 23.85% of the issued Related parties and conflicts of interest share capital of the Company as at 5 December 2014.
Invesco The Group maintains robust procedures to ensure that related participated in the placing on the same terms as other party transactions and potential conflicts of interest are subscribers and no commission was payable to them in identified, disclosed and managed.
Directors declare interests respect of that participation.
As Invesco held greater than 10% in other businesses on appointment to the Board, as they arise of the issued share capital of the Company immediately prior and also complete an annual self-certification.
Where it is to the placing they were deemed a related party for the identified that a related party relationship exists, the Board purposes of the Listing Rules.
agrees specific additional procedures to ensure the effective See note 29 on page 119 for additional related party management of potential conflicts of interest.
Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of the Board, is also the Director of Finance for Oxford University and a director of Market abuse directive Isis Innovations Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Company has a Disclosure Committee, as required by Oxford University.
Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the the Market Abuse Directive, comprising the CEO, CFO, Vice Company entered into technology commercialisation President of Corporate and Investor Relations and Company and revenue sharing agreements with these organisations Secretary.
The Committee reviews all significant items of prior to Giles Kerr joining the Board.
The Group has licensed business within the Group regularly, and on an ad hoc basis if the intellectual property rights covered by these agreements required, and maintains an Insider List recording both those to independent third-party companies that are developing employed within the Group and at external advisers who may and or selling the licensed products.
Under these licence have access to inside information.
Whenever individuals are agreements, the Group is entitled to receive milestone placed on or removed from the List they are notified payments and or royalties on sales of the products sold accordingly and advised of their responsibilities.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 This enables the Board to develop an understanding of the Remuneration issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing Extensive information, including annual and interim reports remuneration policy and the individual remuneration of all and all press releases, is published in the Investor Relations executive and non-executive directors and members of the area on the Groups website www.
com for access by Leadership Team.
The Remuneration Committee is formed all shareholders.
In addition, through the website, individuals exclusively of non-executive directors and its report can be can register to receive electronic copies of all Company found on pages 56 to 75. announcements on the day they are issued.
Annual General Meeting Relations with shareholders The AGM gives private shareholders the opportunity to meet The Group maintains good communications with and discuss the Groups business with the Board and other shareholders through formal and informal dialogue.
A full business presentation is given and The Company formally reports its results twice a year there is an open question and answer session during which with full year results announced in May and interim 49 shareholders may ask questions both about the resolutions results in November, and Close Period and AGM statements.
Governance being proposed and the business in general.
The Chairmen of The CEO and CFO give presentations of these results to the the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be Companys institutional shareholders, analysts and the media.
present at the AGM to answer shareholders questions and The presentations are broadcast live on the internet for the the Board is available after the meeting for an informal information of all shareholders.
During the year the Company hosted two site visits at our The AGM will be held at 10.30 am on Wednesday 15 July 2015, facility in Camberley, Surrey for analysts and investors.
at the offices of Stephenson Harwood LLP, 1 Finsbury Circus, Both visits were based around our Interventional Medicine London EC2M 7SH.
The Notice convening the meeting is business and visitors received presentations from the distributed separately to shareholders at least 20 working commercial leaders responsible for Varithena, EKOS and days before the meeting.
It is also available on the Companys Interventional Oncology.
A tour of the laboratories was given website: www.
as well as demonstrations of the products.
The letter accompanying the AGM Notice includes details of As part of our ongoing efforts to broaden our investor base, the resolutions and explanatory notes thereon.
we launched a Level 1 sponsored ADR programme in February Members of the Company unable to attend the meeting 2015.
This offers US investors a platform on which to invest in may elect to vote electronically or using the proxy form our Company and aims to raise our profile with a large pool of accompanying the Notice.
In order to vote electronically, potential investors.
members should log on to Capita Asset Services BTGs The CEO and CFO meet regularly with institutional investors registrars website www.
com and follow with support from the Investor Relations department.
the instructions on the screen.
Crest members may send their The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other proxy votes to the Companys registrars electronically.
directors are available to meet with major shareholders on In line with best practice, the Company has decided to request.
As part of his role as the Senior Independent Director, introduce mandatory poll voting this year on all resolutions Giles Kerr is available to shareholders when contact with the put to the AGM.
The results of the voting on all resolutions executive directors or the Chairman may not be appropriate.
will be disclosed and subsequently published in a market No other requests were received from major shareholders to announcement and on the Companys website following meet with the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or other the meeting.
non-executive directors during the year.
The Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
The directors receive a report from the Investor Relations department at each Board meeting giving information on material changes in shareholdings and any feedback from the Companys brokers and investors.
Following the twice-yearly results announcements and any subsequent shareholder meetings held by management, detailed feedback from external advisers and brokers is provided to the Board, outlining the views and reactions of investors and analysts.
