Directors report | Corporate governance report Corporate governance report reviewing the Groups operating Chairmans introduction Compliance statement performance and approving the Groups As a Board we are committed to maintaining It is the Boards view that for the year ended financial results: the highest standards of corporate 31 December 2015 the Company has been governance and one of my key responsibilities fully compliant with all of the relevant reviewing and approving larger capital as Chairman is to ensure that we continue provisions set out in the Code applicable expenditure and acquisition divestment to do so.
Bunzls corporate governance to this reporting period.
The Companys proposals and material increases in framework is designed to facilitate effective, auditors,  LLP, borrowing and loan facilities: and entrepreneurial and prudent management are required to review whether this overseeing the Groups risk management that can safeguard shareholders and other statement reflects the Companys and internal controls processes and stakeholders interests while at the same compliance with those provisions of the procedures.
time sustain the continued success of the Code specified for their review by the Listing Company over the longer term.
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority There is a clear division of responsibilities and to report if it does not reflect such between the Chairman and the Chief One of the key aspects of good governance compliance.
No such report has been made.
Executive which is set out in writing and has by any Board is to develop and maintain a been agreed by the Board and encompasses comprehensive strategy and plan for future the following parameters: Board composition management succession.
In this regard, with As at 31 December 2015, the Board was help from the Nomination Committee, we the primary job of the Chairman is to be made up of nine members comprising a have undertaken an extensive search and responsible for the leadership of the Board Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other selection process to identify Michael Roneys and ensuring its effectiveness in all executive directors and five non-executive successor as Chief Executive following aspects of its role while the Chief directors.
As at the date of this report the Mikes decision to retire from the Board after Executive is responsible for the leadership Board was made up of 10 members following more than 10 years in the role.
In January and the operational and performance the appointment of Frank van Zanten as a 2016 we announced the appointment of Frank management of the Company within the director with effect from 1 February 2016. van Zanten, who is currently the Managing strategy agreed by the Board.
Michael Roney, who has been Chief Executive Director of our Continental Europe business since 2005 having previously joined the the Chairman is viewed by investors area.
Frank joined the Board on 1 February Board as a non-executive director in 2003, as the ultimate steward of the business 2016 and will succeed Mike as Chief will retire from the Board following the and the guardian of the interests of all Executive following the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting on 20 the shareholders.
Annual General Meeting to be held on April 2016.
Brief biographical details of the 20 April 2016. the Chairman: directors are given on pages 48 and 49.
None of the Companys non-executive directors takes overall responsibility for the In September 2014 the Financial Reporting had any previous connection with the composition and capability of the Board Council published the latest edition of the UK Company or its executive directors on and its Committees: Corporate Governance Code the Code, a appointment to the Board and all of them are copy of which is available at www.
consults regularly with the Chief considered by both the Board and the criteria This contains broad principles together Executive and is available on a flexible set out in the Code to be independent.
The with more specific provisions which set basis to provide advice, counsel and Chairman and each of the non-executive out standards of good practice in relation support to the Chief Executive: and directors have a breadth of strategic, to Board leadership and effectiveness, management and financial experience gained ensures corporate governance is accountability, remuneration and relations in each of their own fields in a range of conducted in accordance with current with shareholders.
The new version of the multinational businesses.
In accordance with best practice, as appropriate to Code incorporates a number of changes to the terms of the Code each of the directors, the Group.
the previous edition including amendments with the exception of Michael Roney who to the principles and provisions relating the Chief Executive: retires at the conclusion of the Annual to directors remuneration and risk General Meeting, will be subject to remanages the executive directors and the management and internal control.
It has election at the forthcoming Annual General Groups management and day-to-day also introduced a new requirement for Meeting.
activities: Boards to make an annual viability statement.
The report that follows provides prepares and presents to the Board the The role of the Board an overview of the work undertaken by the strategy for growth in shareholder value: Board and its Committees in fulfilling our To ensure directors maintain overall control sets the operating plans and budgets governance responsibilities and describes over strategic, financial and operational required to deliver the agreed strategy: how the principles of the Code have been and compliance issues, the Board meets applied by the Company during the year regularly throughout the year and has ensures that the Group has in place ended 31 December 2015. formally adopted a schedule of matters appropriate risk management and which are required to be brought to it for control mechanisms: and Philip Rogerson decision.
Key aspects of the Boards communicates with the Companys Chairman role include: shareholders and analysts on a day-to- 29 February 2016 day basis as necessary subject to an setting the Groups strategic aims and overview of such matters by the ensuring that the Company has the Chairman.
necessary capabilities to deliver the Groups strategy: 50 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Corporate governance report The Chief Executive is also the designated on relevant legislative, regulatory and interest that may arise and to impose such member of the Board responsible for corporate governance developments.
limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
environmental, social and governance Directors may also take independent matters and reports to the Board in relation professional advice at the Companys Directors are required to give notice of any to such matters.
expense where they judge this to be potential situational and or transactional necessary in the furtherance of their conflicts which are then considered by David Sleath is currently the senior duties to discharge their responsibilities the Board and, if deemed appropriate, independent director and is available to as directors.
A director is not shareholders if they have concerns which however permitted to participate in such contact through the normal channels of The Board meets formally at least seven considerations or to vote in relation to their Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance times a year and the Board calendar is own conflicts.
Director has failed to resolve or for which planned to ensure that the directors discuss such contact is inappropriate.
He is also a wide range of topics throughout the year.
The Board has considered and authorised a available to the other directors should they Normally at least two Board meetings a year number of potential situational conflicts all have any concerns which are not appropriate are held at or near Group locations in the UK of which relate to the holding of external to raise with the Chairman or which have not and overseas where the directors have the directorships and have been entered on been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
opportunity to meet and interact with senior the Companys conflicts register.
No actual executives from different businesses within conflicts have been identified during the year.
The non-executive directors play a key role in the Groups portfolio as well as observe the The Board considers that these procedures corporate governance and accountability operations in situ.
through both their attendance at Board of the Groups senior executives made meetings and their membership of the presentations to the Board about a variety Audit Committee various Board Committees.
The nonof different and diverse topics including The Audit Committee comprises all of the executive directors bring a broad and diverse reviews of potential acquisition opportunities, independent non-executive directors and range of business and financial expertise and the post-acquisition performance of is chaired by David Sleath who, as Chief experience to the Board which complements businesses acquired in prior years, the Executive and formerly Group Finance and supplements the experience of the Groups financing facilities and treasury Director of SEGRO plc and as a fellow of the executive directors.
This enables them to policies, cybersecurity risks and controls, ICAEW, is considered by the Board to have evaluate information provided and supplier audits carried out and health and recent and relevant financial experience constructively challenge managements safety performance metrics.
While the other viewpoints, assumptions and performance.
directors are not members of the In addition to regular Board meetings, Committee, they normally attend meetings of The Board has appointed Audit, the directors meet annually to review and the Committee by invitation together with the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, discuss the Groups overall strategy.
As part Head of Internal Audit and representatives all of which comply with the provisions of the of this process, presentations are made by from the external auditors.
The Secretary Code and play an important governance role the Chief Executive and the heads of each of to the Committee is Paul Hussey, Company through the detailed work they carry out to the business areas together with the Director Secretary.
Further details about the Audit fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them.
Committee and the work undertaken by it Briefing papers are prepared and circulated during the year and prior to the publication of to Committee members in advance of each All new directors receive a tailored induction the Groups results for 2015 are set out in the meeting and, in respect of the Audit on joining the Board, including meetings Audit Committee report on pages 56 to 59.
Committee, made available to the other with senior management and visits to Members attendance at the Committee directors.
Further information relating to some of the Groups locations.
They also meetings held during the year is set out in the Board Committees is set out below.
receive a detailed information pack which the table on page 52.
The terms of reference includes details of directors duties and of the Committee, which were reviewed responsibilities, procedures for dealing Information and support during the year by both the Committee and in Bunzls shares and a number of other Board agendas are set by the Chairman in the Board, are available on the Companys governance related issues.
Directors consultation with the Chief Executive and website, www.
are continually updated on the Groups with the assistance of the Company businesses and their markets and the Secretary, who maintains a rolling Remuneration Committee changes to the competitive and regulatory programme of items for discussion by the environments in which they operate.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Board to ensure that all matters reserved all of the independent non-executive for the Board and other key issues are Training and development needs of the Board directors and is currently chaired by Vanda considered at the appropriate time.
The are kept under review and directors attend Murray, who was appointed Chair of the Board is supplied with full and timely external courses where it is considered Remuneration Committee in April 2015 upon information, including detailed financial appropriate for them to do so.
While neither information, to enable the directors to the Chairman of the Company nor the Chief discharge their responsibilities.
To enable Executive are members of the Committee, Conflicts of interest informed decision making, briefing papers they normally attend meetings by invitation are prepared and circulated to directors The directors are required to avoid situations except when the Committee is considering approximately one week before the where they have, or could have, a direct or matters concerning themselves.
All directors indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, have access to the advice and services of the may conflict, with the Companys interests.
Director of Group Human Resources.
Further Company Secretary who is tasked with In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, details of the Remuneration Committee, the ensuring that Board procedures are the Companys Articles of Association allow Companys remuneration policy and how it is complied with and the Board is fully briefed the Board to authorise potential conflicts of Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 51 Directors report | Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued applied are set out in the Directors to be considered as prospective nonsuccessful senior business executive with remuneration report on pages 60 to 81. executive directors and, when appropriate, extensive management experience of an Members attendance at the Committee executive directors.
This process was international distribution business.
We meetings held during the year is set out in adopted both in relation to the appointment carried out an extensive search and selection the table below.
The terms of reference of of Vanda Murray as a non-executive director process overseen by a sub-committee of the the Committee, which were reviewed by the with effect from 1 February 2015 and of Committee and a number of both internal Board during the year, are available on the Frank van Zanten to succeed Michael Roney and external candidates were considered.
as Chief Executive with effect from 20 April All members of the Committee had the 2016.
Details of the process followed in opportunity to meet the shortlisted relation to Vanda Murrays appointment are candidates following which the Nomination Committee set out in the Corporate governance report recommendation was made to the Board, Composition included in the 2014 Annual Report and which was subsequently unanimously The Nomination Committee comprises the further information relating to Frank van approved, that Frank van Zanten be Chairman of the Company, who chairs the Zantens appointment is set out below.
appointed as the Companys new Chief Committee unless the Committee is dealing Executive.
He has extensive knowledge and with the matter of succession of the Activities experience of the Companys business Chairman of the Company, the Chief The Committee met on seven occasions gained over many years and has a successful Executive and all of the non-executive during 2015.
Members attendance at those track record of implementing the Companys directors.
In accordance with the provisions meetings is set out in the table below.
long-standing strategy for developing and of the Code, the majority of the members are expanding the Group both organically and by independent non-executive directors.
The As mentioned above, one of the Committees acquisition.
His appointment will provide Secretary to the Committee is Paul Hussey, main responsibilities during the year related continuity for the business as well as its Company Secretary.
to the process of identifying and selecting a customers and employees going forward.
new Chief Executive to succeed Michael Role Roney upon his retirement as Chief Executive During the year the Committee also reviewed The Committees principal role is to consider, in April 2016.
Having taken account of the and took account of the balance of skills, and make recommendations to the Board challenges and opportunities facing the knowledge, experience and diversity of the concerning, the composition of the Board Company currently and in the future and Board, the time commitment expected of the and its Committees including proposed after identifying the background, skills, non-executive directors and the conclusions appointees to the Board, whether to fill knowledge and experience that will be of the formal evaluation process which any vacancies that may arise or to change required of the Chief Executive in the future, was carried out when considering and the number of Board members.
It is the the Committee prepared and agreed a recommending the nomination of directors Committees role to ensure that the detailed specification for the role and for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Board and its Committees maintain the appointed an external search consultancy, Meeting.
In particular the Committee appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, The Zygos Partnership, to assist them in the reviewed the performance of David Sleath, experience and diversity to ensure their recruitment process.
The Zygos Partnership who was appointed to the Board in continued effectiveness.
does not provide any other services to, or September 2007.
The Committee believes have any connection with, the Company.
In that he continues to be effective and to The Committees responsibilities include: particular the Committee was keen to find a demonstrate strong independence in reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience Board and committee attendance and diversity of the Board and making The following table shows the attendance in 2015 of directors at Board meetings and at recommendations to the Board with regard meetings of the Board Committees of which they were members: to any proposed changes: Audit Remuneration Nomination nominating, for the approval of the Board, Board Committee Committee Committee appropriate individuals to fill Board Number of meetings 7 4 3 7 vacancies as and when they arise having Philip Rogerson 7 7 considered candidates with relevant Michael Roney 7 6 experience from a wide range of Patrick Larmon 7 backgrounds: and Peter Johnson 3 1 1 3 succession planning, taking into account Brian May 7 the challenges and opportunities facing David Sleath 7 4 3 7 the Company and the background, skills Eugenia Ulasewicz 7 4 3 7 and expertise that will be required on the Jean-Charles Pauze 7 4 3 7 Board in the future, and reviewing annually Meinie Oldersma 7 4 3 5 management succession planning Vanda Murray 6 4 2 6 processes in relation to the Companys senior executives.
Notes: The Committee meets as necessary Peter Johnson retired as a director on 15 April 2015 having attended all of the Board and Committee meetings held between 1 January 2015 and that date.
throughout the year to discharge its responsibilities.
An external search Meinie Oldersma was unable to attend two of the Nomination Committee meetings for personal reasons.
consultancy which does not have any other Vanda Murray was appointed as a director on 1 February 2015 and attended all of the Board and Committee connection with the Company is retained by meetings held between that date and the end of the year.
the Company to assess potential candidates In addition to the directors named above, Frank van Zanten was appointed as an executive director with effect from 1 February 2016 and will become Chief Executive following Michael Roneys retirement on 20 April 2016.
52 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Corporate governance report character and judgement in the manner in allocate sufficient time to the Company to the directors are of the opinion that it which he discharges his responsibilities as discharge his responsibilities effectively.
The is appropriate to continue to adopt the a director.
Consequently the Committee is Chairman also periodically holds meetings going concern basis in preparing the satisfied that, despite his length of tenure, with the non-executive directors without the financial statements.
All of these processes were carried out satisfactorily The process of preparing the Annual Report The Chief Executive presented his annual during the year.
has included the following: management succession plan to the Committee.
The Company recognises that In accordance with the requirements of the comprehensive reviews undertaken at having the right directors and senior Code an external performance evaluation different levels in the Group in order to management is crucial for the Groups was first carried out in 2012 and the results ensure the accuracy, consistency and success and it is a key task of the Committee were subsequently presented to the Board.
overall balance of the Annual Report: and to ensure that the Company has a robust and The facilitator of the external evaluation, procedures to verify the factual accuracy continuous succession planning process over Lintstock, does not provide any other of the Annual Report.
both the medium to long term to ensure that services to, or have any other connection there is the right mix and skills available as with, the Company.
Although the Code only From the information and assurance the Company evolves.
requires that the evaluation of the Board and provided by the ongoing work of the internal its Committees should be externally audit department, the reviews conducted by As part of the review of the composition of facilitated at least every three years, the the external auditors in relation to both the the Board and the succession planning Board has decided to appoint Lintstock to half year and full year results, the Boards process, both the Board and the Committee carry out an annual performance evaluation understanding of the Groups business and recognise the importance of gender diversity and accordingly external evaluations have the information provided by the senior throughout the Group.
As at the date of this been completed each year since 2012.
By executive management team, the Board report, two of the 10 Board members doing so, the Board is able to ensure that considers that the Annual Report, taken as a moving to two of the nine Board members there is consistency and continuity in the whole, is fair, balanced and understandable following Michael Roneys retirement in evaluation process and the presentation of and provides the information necessary for April 2016 and one of the five Executive the results from one year to the next.
shareholders to assess the Companys Committee members are female.
The Following the evaluation which was carried position and performance, business model Committee aims to have a Board with a out in 2015, the Board once again identified a and strategy.
broad range of skills, backgrounds, number of key priorities in order to improve experience and diversity and, while the the Boards performance, including: Risk management and internal Committee will continue to follow a policy of control ensuring that the best people are appointed continuing to focus on the key strategic The directors acknowledge that they have for the relevant roles, the Committee issues facing the Group both as part of the overall responsibility for identifying, recognises the benefits of greater diversity Boards annual strategy review and at evaluating, managing and mitigating the and will continue to take account of this when other times of the year as appropriate: principal risks faced by the Group and for considering any particular appointment.
ensuring the smooth succession of the new monitoring the Groups risk management However, the primary responsibility of the Chief Executive, providing the appropriate and internal control systems.
However, such Committee in selecting and recommending level of support as necessary: systems are designed to manage rather than candidates to the Board when making new eliminate the risk of failure to achieve appointments is to ensure the strength of the continuing the focus of the Nomination business objectives and can only provide Boards composition and the overriding aim Committee on the management reasonable and not absolute assurance is to always select and recommend the succession plans for the Group, including against material misstatement or loss.
In best candidate for the position.
Further in particular maintaining the Boards accordance with Principle C. 2 of the Code information about the Companys workforce exposure to the Groups senior and the related guidance, the Company has diversity is set out on page 43. management below Board level: and established the procedures necessary to maintaining the focus on both the ensure that there is an ongoing process for The terms of reference of the Committee, opportunities and threats presented by identifying, evaluating, managing and which have recently been reviewed and future developments in technology and mitigating the principal risks faced by the amended by the Board, are set out on the digital marketing activities and how these Group and for determining the nature and Companys website.
might best be developed in order to ensure extent of the principal risks it is willing to the continuing success of the Group.
take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Performance evaluation The directors confirm that such procedures As a result of the overall performance The Company has a formal performance have been in place for the year ended evaluation process carried out in 2015, evaluation process for the Board, its 31 December 2015 and up to the date of the Board concluded that both it and its Committees and individual directors approval of these financial statements and Committees are operating effectively.
This includes that the Groups risk management and individual discussions between the Chairman internal control systems have been Financial and business reporting and each director when their individual monitored during the year.
training and development needs are The responsibilities of the directors in reviewed.
Led by the senior independent respect of the preparation of the Group and director, the non-executive directors also parent company financial statements are set meet without the Chairman present at least out on page 133 and the auditors report on annually to appraise the Chairmans pages 134 to 139 includes a statement by the performance including a review of his other external auditors about their reporting commitments to ensure that he is able to responsibilities.
As set out on page 91, Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 53 Directors report | Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued A summary of the principal control central management holds regular regular meetings are held with insurance structures and processes in place across meetings with business area management and risk advisers to assess the risks the Group is set out below and further to discuss strategic, operational and throughout the Group: information relating to how the directors financial issues including a review of the a management committee, which oversees maintain overall control over all significant principal risks affecting each of the issues relating principally to environment, strategic, financial, operational and business areas and the policies and health & safety, insurance and business compliance issues is set out in the Role of procedures by which these risks are continuity planning matters, sets relevant the Board section on page 50. managed: policies and practices and monitors their the Executive Committee meets twice implementation: The Board has delegated to an Executive per month and also reviews the outcome Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive, risk assessments, safety audits and a of the discussions held at business area Finance Director and other functional regular review of progress against meetings on internal control and risk managers, the initial responsibility for objectives established by each business management issues: identifying, evaluating, managing and area are periodically carried out: and mitigating the risks facing the Group and for the Board in turn reviews the outcome of developments in tax, treasury and deciding how these are best managed and the Executive Committee discussions on accounting are continually monitored by to establish a system of internal control internal control and risk management Group management in association with appropriate to the business environments issues which ensures a documented and external advisers.
in which the Group operates.
The principal auditable trail of accountability: features of this system include: each business area, the Executive The directors confirm that they have Committee and the Board carry out an reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys a procedure for monitoring the annual fraud risk assessment: risk management and internal control effectiveness of the internal control systems in operation during 2015. system through a tiered management actual results are reviewed monthly structure with clearly defined lines of against budget, forecasts and the previous The external auditors are engaged to express responsibility and delegation of authority: year and explanations obtained for all an opinion on the financial statements.
The significant variances: clearly defined authorisation procedures audit includes a review and evaluation of the for capital investment and acquisitions: all treasury activities, including in relation system of internal financial control and the to the management of foreign exchange data contained in the financial statements to strategic plans and comprehensive exposures and Group borrowings, are the extent necessary for expressing an audit budgets which are prepared annually by reported and reviewed monthly: opinion on the truth and fairness of the the business areas and approved by the financial statements.
Board: the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on a weekly basis formal standards of business conduct Assessment of the prospects of the and significant movements are reviewed including a code of ethics and whistle Company and its viability statement centrally: blowing procedure based on honesty, In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the integrity, fair dealing and compliance with the internal audit department periodically Code, the directors set out below how the local laws and regulations of the reviews individual businesses and they have assessed the prospects of the countries in which the Group operates: procedures, makes recommendations to Company, over what period the prospects improve controls and follows up to ensure a well-established consolidation and have been assessed and the Companys that management implements the reporting system for the statutory formal viability statement.
The internal audit accounts and monthly management departments work is determined on a risk accounts: The context for and period over which assessment basis and their findings are the prospects of the Company have continual investment in IT systems to reported to Group and business area been assessed ensure the production of timely and management as well as to the Audit To consider the prospects of the Company accurate management information Committee and the external auditors: and determine an appropriate time frame relating to the operation of the Groups an annual self-assessment of the status for the purpose of making a statement businesses: and of internal controls measured against a on the Companys longer term viability, detailed manuals covering Group prescribed list of minimum standards is the directors have taken into account accounting policies and policies and performed by every business and action various factors including the nature of the procedures for the Groups treasury plans are agreed where remedial action Companys business, its business model operations supplemented by internal is required: and strategy and the existing planning control procedures at a business periods.
In particular: the Audit Committee, which comprises area level.
all of the independent non-executive Bunzl has a geographically balanced and directors of the Company, meets regularly Some of the procedures carried out in order diversified business portfolio operating in throughout the year.
Further details of the to monitor the effectiveness of the internal 29 countries: work of the Committee, which includes control system and to identify, manage and a review of the effectiveness of the the Company operates across six core, mitigate business risk are listed below: Companys internal financial controls and fragmented market sectors, many of which the assurance procedures relating to the are growing and resilient to challenging Companys risk management system, are economic conditions: and set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 56 to 59: 54 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Corporate governance report the business model and strategy minimise a reverse stress test scenario which The Board also periodically reviews and the volatility of the Companys results, identified what would need to happen to discusses analysts and brokers reports and enabling Bunzl to deliver consistently good cause the Company to fail, which for this surveys of shareholder opinions conducted results with high returns on capital and purpose is taken to mean an unavoidable by the Companys own brokers.
The conditions required to create this situation Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent With regards to the time frame specifically, were so severe that it was considered to to shareholders at least 20 working days the directors considered the above factors be implausible.
All shareholders are as well as the Groups strategic planning encouraged to participate in the Annual process.
Comprehensive budgets are In all scenarios it has been assumed, based General Meeting, are invited to ask questions prepared annually by the business areas on past experience and all current indicators, at the meeting and are given the opportunity and approved by the Board.
Strategic plans that the Company will be able to refinance to meet all of the directors informally.
covering a period of two years beyond the its banking facilities and US private Shareholders unable to attend are forecast for the current year are also placement notes as and when they mature.
encouraged to vote using the proxy card prepared annually and reviewed by the The directors consider that the stress testing mailed to them or electronically as detailed Board.
While the directors have no reason to based assessment of the Companys in the Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders are believe the Company will not be viable over a prospects, building on the results of the given the option to withhold their vote on the longer period, given the inherent uncertainty robust assessment of the principal risks to proxy form.
As in previous years, at the involved, the period over which the directors the business and the financial implications forthcoming Annual General Meeting each consider it possible to form a reasonable of them materialising, confirms the of the resolutions put to the meeting will be expectation as to the Groups longer term resilience of the Group to severe but taken on a poll rather than on a show of viability is the three year period to plausible scenarios and provides a hands as directors believe that a poll is more 31 December 2018. reasonable basis on which to conclude representative of shareholders voting on its longer term viability.
intentions because shareholder votes are How the prospects of the Company and its counted according to the number of shares longer-term viability have been assessed Confirmation of longer term viability held and all votes tendered are taken into In making a viability statement, the directors Taking into account the Companys current account.
The results of the poll will be are required to consider the Companys position and principal risks and the publicly announced and made available ability to meet its liabilities in full as they assessment performed of the prospects on the Companys website as soon as fall due, taking into account the Companys of the Company, the directors have a practicable following the Annual current position and principal risks.
The reasonable expectation that the Company General Meeting.
Company has significant financial resources will be able to continue in operation and meet including committed and uncommitted its liabilities as they fall due over the three On behalf of the Board banking facilities and US private placement year period to 31 December 2018. notes, further details of which are set out Paul Hussey in Note 13 to the consolidated financial Secretary Relations with shareholders statements.
As a result, the directors believe 29 February 2016 As required by the relevant law and that the Company is well placed to manage regulations, the Company reports formally its business risks successfully.
to shareholders twice a year with the half year results announced normally at the end The resilience of the Group to a range of of August and the annual results announced possible scenarios, in particular the impact normally at the end of February.
In addition on key financial ratios and its ongoing the Company has published two trading compliance with financial covenants, was statements during the year on a voluntary factored into the directors considerations basis in order to keep the Companys through stress testing current financial shareholders and the financial markets projections.
These included the following: periodically updated on the Companys trading performance outside of the an adverse but plausible deterioration in regulatory announcements made in relation revenue and operating profit combined to the half year and annual results.
with the adverse impact of a number of acquisitions underperforming and a The Chief Executive and Finance Director significant increase in working capital: have regular meetings with representatives the impact that the materialisation of the of institutional shareholders and report to market, operational and tax related the Board the views of major shareholders.
principal risks may have on the Companys Additional forms of communication include longer term viability, in particular on its presentations of the half year and annual financial liquidity and debt covenants results.
The Chairman and the senior risk, both with and without mitigating independent director and the other nonactions: and executive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request.
