Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance report Dear Shareholder, While all Board appointments are made on merit, the Board This has been a dynamic year for Burberry with the believes in the importance of a diverse Board and has continued strong performance of the business, the always had strong gender diversity among its membership, leadership transition to Christopher Bailey as Chief Creative particularly at executive level.
As female Board members and Chief Executive Officer and the continuing evolution of currently comprise 33% of our Board, I am pleased that we the Board through its ongoing succession plan.
have exceeded the goal set by Lord Davies in his review of the diversity of FTSE 100 boards.
As a Board it is our responsibility to support management in its strategic aims, to enable the Company to continue to With the expectation that the year ahead will continue to be perform successfully and sustainably for our shareholders impacted by a challenging external environment, the Board and wider stakeholders.
Underpinning this is the Boards will continue to support management in the execution of its commitment to seek to operate to the highest standards strategies, while continuing to keep the long term interests of ofcorporate governance.
I am pleased that following an our shareholders top of mind.
This report outlines our approach independent evaluation of the Board and our Committees to governance and our key activities during the year.
during the year, the results confirmed that the Board operates effectively, in an open and collegiate manner.
Sir John Peace Chairman It is also important to have an open dialogue with our shareholders and other stakeholders.
This year the Board has been reflecting carefully on the results of last years Annual General Meeting.
Although we were pleased to gain Governance 84% of votes in favour of our remuneration policy, we were The Board is collectively responsible for promoting Burberrys extremely disappointed that we did not receive a majority of long-term success, for setting its strategic aims and ensuring a support for our Remuneration Report.
The Chairman of the framework of prudent and effective controls.
Remuneration Committee and I have met with or spoken tothe majority of the Groups largest 50 investors to better This report sets out the Boards approach and work during understand and respond to the areas of concern, and have the financial year 2014 15 and, together with the Directors met with a significant number of them.
The Remuneration Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 103, includes details Committee has invested considerable time during the year of how the Company has applied and complied with the considering the outcome of these discussions.
More detail principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance on the activities of the Remuneration Committee can be Code the Code.
The directors consider that the Company found on pages 81 to 103. has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
The Board has also reviewed the new provisions Board composition has been a particular focus over the past set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, which two years as the Board continues to build on its relevant skills the Group will report on next year.
and competencies for the future under its succession plan.
The Board has evolved significantly with the appointment Our Board offour new non-executive directors and anew executive The Board currently consists of 12 members the team.
I am delighted to welcome Carolyn McCall and Chairman, the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, Fabiola Arredondo who have joined the Boardas nonthe Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and executive directors during the year.
Their appointments eight independent non-executive directors.
Christopher bring important skills and experience to the Board, Bailey was appointed as Chief Creative and Chief Executive reflecting the Groups strategy.
In the context of the Officer and as a director on 1 May 2014 following Angela substantial changes to both executive and non-executive Ahrendts stepping down on 30 April 2014.
A list of directors Board membership, the Board believes that to ensure and their biographies is set out on pages 62 and 63. stability and continuity of knowledge, new Board members should be given the opportunity to settle into their roles The Chairman, Sir John Peace, has led the Board as before longer-serving members step down.
The Board will Chairman since 2002.
The Chairman is responsible for continue to execute against its succession plan and it is leading and managing the business of the Board and anticipated that there will be further changes to the Board ensuring its effectiveness.
He sets the agenda for Board in the coming year.
discussions and ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, particularly in relation to theCompanys performance.
He promotes a culture ofopenness and trust which allows for debate and constructive challenge of the executive directors.
66 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report The Chairman works collaboratively with the Chief Creative Role of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Christopher Bailey, in setting This has been a dynamic year for Burberry, with the transition the Board agenda and ensuring any actions agreed by the in its leadership and the continued growth and evolution of its Board are effectively implemented.
It is the responsibility of the Board to support management in its strategic aims to enable the Company to continue to perform During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact successfully and sustainably for our shareholders and wider stakeholders.
and met with the Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors outside of formal Board meetings.
The Board is ultimately responsible for promoting the The Chairman also met with the non-executive directors long-term success of the Group.
The Board leads and without the executive directors being present.
provides direction for management by setting strategy and overseeing its implementation by management.
The Board The Chairman is also responsible to shareholders for the isalso responsible for oversight of the Groups systems Companys performance and has regular discussions with ofgovernance, internal control and risk management.
the Companys main institutional shareholders.
The major commitments of the Chairman are detailed in his biography Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved on page 62. forapproval by the Board.
These include decisions on the Groups strategy, the annual budget and operating plans, The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, major capital expenditure and transactions, financial supports the Chairman in his role and leads the nonresults, the dividend, the approval of Groups risk appetite executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman.
The matters reserved for the TheSenior Independent Director is also available as an Boards decision are available on the Companys website additional point of contact for shareholders.
The Non-executive directors provide strong experience Role of the Board Committees and independent support to the Board.
They assist in the The Board is supported in its activities by a number of development of strategy and provide constructive challenge committees including the following principal committees: and support to management.
Audit Committee: Nomination Committee: and Remuneration Committee.
All the non-executive directors are members of The Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, each of the principal committees of the Board.
The Board Christopher Bailey, is responsible for the management of believes this to be important as it ensures the appropriate the business, developing the Groups strategic direction for linkages between the work of the Committees and the consideration and approval by the Board and implementing Board as a whole.
The terms of reference of each of the the agreed strategy.
The Chief Creative and Chief Executive principal committees can be viewed on the Companys Officer is assisted by members of his senior leadership website at www.
Members of the senior leadership team are identified on page 13.
The Committees can engage third-party consultants and independent professional advisers and can call upon other The Company Secretary, Catherine Sukmonowski, resources of the Group to assist them in discharging their actsas Secretary to the Board and all the Boards respective responsibilities.
Committees and is responsible for supporting the Chairman in the delivery of the corporate governance agenda.
Board Chief Creative and Nomination Remuneration Audit Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Officer Risk Senior Committee Leadership Team Global Health and Global Ethics Safety Committee Committee 67 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report In addition to the relevant committee members and the visiting the Groups various operating facilities in the UK.
Company Secretary, external advisers and, on occasion, Between meetings, directors spend a significant amount of other directors and members of the senior management time on Board and Committee related matters.
The Board team attend committee meetings but only at the invitation considers that it met sufficiently often to enable the of the Chairmen of the Committees.
directors to discharge their duties effectively.
Set out on pages 75 to 79 are reports from the Audit and The Board and Committee agendas were shaped to ensure Nomination Committees.
The report of the Remuneration that discussion was focused on the Groups strategic Committee is set out on pages 81 to 103. priorities and key monitoring activities, as well as reviews ofsignificant issues.
In addition, to allow for opportunities Board effectiveness for the Board to engage with senior management to discuss key elements of the business, a number of Board dinners The culture of the Board is open, transparent and collegiate.
were held during the year.
The table below gives the The Chairman demonstrates leadership and encourages individual highlights of how the Board spent its time during its 2014 15 and collective involvement.
financial year but it is not an exhaustive list of topics covered.
Further information on the Groups strategic focus Highlights of Board activities during 2014 15 during the year is set out in the Core Strategies section During the year the Board held six scheduled meetings, starting on page 27. including an in-depth two-day session on strategy, and onead hoc meeting.
In addition, the Board spent two days Month Strategy Business Focus Oversight and Risk Governance May CC & CEOs update on the business, Review of 2013 14 financial year UK Governance Code and other regulatory operations, brand and culture.
preliminary results announcement, requirements for the Annual Report.
Annual Report and Accounts and Japan transition.
Preparation for and review of Notice dividend policy.
Review of risk assessments and internal Board succession matters.
controls process and risk appetite.
July CC & CEOs update on the business, AGM.
September Annual strategy session two days.
Strategic risks and impact on the Board succession matters.
Product showroom presentation and tour.
CC & CEOs update on the business, operations, brand and culture.
October CC & CEOs update on the business, Review of 2014 15 interim results Investor relations update.
November operations, brand and culture.
New UK Corporate Governance Code.
Review of risk assessments, internal Group Treasury Policy.
control framework and business controls.
Review of audit plan for 2014 15 and Directors and Officers reappointment of auditors.
February CC & CEOs update on the business, IT controls and cyber security.
Review of conflicts of interest.
March Focus on supply chain.
CC & CEOs update on the business, External Board effectiveness review.
Year end review of the business Board succession matters.
68 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Evaluating our performance in 2014 15 Dr Long prepared a report which summarised the The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance discussion highlighting the strengths of the Board and its and that of its Committees each financial year, and is Committees, future challenges and the key actions agreed required to conduct an external evaluation once every for the year ahead.
The Chairman subsequently spoke to each threeyears.
This year an external review of the Boards director individually to ascertain any further views from the andCommittees effectiveness was conducted by Dr Tracy workshop and to discuss individual roles and performance.
Boardroom Review has no other connection with the Company.
Dr Long facilitated Dr Longs report focused principally on the culture and aBoard effectiveness workshop which was designed to environment in the boardroom, together with the changing enhance the Boards current contribution and to assist composition of the Board and key areas of engagement.
theBoard in its consideration of future challenges by: The overall view was that the Board worked well and there was mutual trust and respect between Board members.
sharing perspectives about the Boards effectiveness The changes being made to Board composition were positive and role: but Board members expressed the view that it was important benchmarking against best practice: and that the departures of longer-serving Board members were phased to ensure the preservation of corporate memory identifying priorities for the Boards development agenda.
while newer Board members settle into their roles.
This resonated with the messages from last years Board The workshop parameters were informed by a discussion effectiveness review which had highlighted that it was between Dr Long and the Chairman.
Ahead of the workshop important to ensure stability while the Board evolves.
each of the directors completed a questionnaire, followed up by individual conversations with Dr Long.
The workshop Below is a summary of the key challenges and actions was conducted with executive and non-executive directors identified from the 2014 15 external Board effectiveness present, and included a case study.
Following the workshop review and views and actions arising from last years review.
Key Themes 2014 15 Review 2013 14 Review Views Actions Views Actions Board The Board composition was enhanced by Continue to enhance non-executives The Board succession process was not composition the recent additional non-executive and engagement with strategy and yet complete but the consensus was that executive director appointments.
There knowledge of the Company through it was progressing well.
was a diversity of perspective, fresh meetings with members of the senior thinking and relevant knowledge and management team, specific focus on experience.
With the changing Board keyareas of the business and individual composition, there was a need to manage site visits.
levels of knowledge and experience and Consideration would be given consequently the importance of staggering toensuring experience relevant the tenure of longer-serving directors.
The Board needed to ensure that it had experience in the key markets in which the Group operates.
Board There had been a good balance in terms Future Board focus would continue Strategy must continue to be a strong Committee of strategic focus during the year with tobeon the strategic challenges focus for the Board.
focus Board time spent on considering growth, ofmanaging growth, the uncertain The Board would ensure that appropriate products and customers, and continuing external environment and support was provided to new Board to refine risk appetite.
members during this time of transition.
The involvement of senior management in Board meetings and more informal meetings continued to be important, particularly to provide non-executive directors with additional insight.
Board The culture of the Board was open, Continue to enhance non-executives The Board performed well, maintaining Committee transparent and collegiate and there knowledge and involvement see above: its business focus despite a number effectiveness wasmutual trust between executive Board composition actions.
ofkey challenges during the year, andnon-executive directors.
The particularly changes to the management Chairman demonstrated leadership team.
The Chairman was commended andencouraged individual and for his effectiveness in leading the Board.
The Committees performed well, There was a healthy balance of support particularly in dealing with a number and constructive challenge in the Board ofsignificant regulatory changes.
and its delegated Committees, and the There was an opportunity to optimise Board used its time formally and more two-way engagement with informally to discuss priorities.
theBoard during meetings to ensure management was leveraging on non-executive director experience, particularly during this time of transition.
69 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report The table below gives details of directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Ad hoc Sir John Peace 6 6 1 1 3 3 1 Christopher Bailey 6 6 0 1 2 Fabiola Arredondo 1 1 1 1 3 Philip Bowman 5 6 1 1 3 3 2 3 3 4 Ian Carter 6 6 1 1 3 3 3 3 4 4 4 Jeremy Darroch 5 6 1 1 2 3 3 3 4 4 Carol Fairweather 6 6 1 1 Stephanie George 6 6 1 1 3 3 3 3 4 4 5 Matthew Key 5 6 1 1 2 3 3 3 4 4 6 Carolyn McCall 4 4 1 1 2 2 3 3 3 3 John Smith 6 6 1 1 David Tyler 6 6 1 1 3 3 3 3 4 4 1 A n ad hoc meeting was convened at short notice to deal with a number of administrative formalities.
Christopher Bailey was unable to attend due to a prior business commitment.
2 Fabiola Arredondo was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Committees on 10 March 2015.
3 Philip Bowman was unable to attend one Board, Nomination and Remuneration Committee meeting taking place on the same day, due to illness.
4 J eremy Darroch was unable to attend one Board and Audit Committee meeting taking place on the same day, due to a commitment made prior to his appointment.
5 Matthew Key was unable to attend one Board and Audit Committee meeting taking place on the same day, due to personal reasons.
6 Carolyn McCall was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Committees on 1 September 2014.
Time allocation The Board continued to focus on building on its relevant Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of skills and competencies for the future under its succession appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of his plan and continued progress was made on this during or her directorship.
The Chairman and the non-executive theyear with the appointment of Carolyn McCall as a directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary non-executive director on 1 September 2014 and Fabiola for the proper performance of their duties.
This is expected Arredondo as a non-executive director on 10 March 2015. to be approximately 20 days each year for basic duties.
The composition of the Board has evolved significantly The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are expected overthe past two years with the appointment of four new to spend additional time over and above this to discharge non-executive directors and a new executive team, albeit their added responsibilities.
comprised of executives with many years of experience atthe Company.
In the context of this substantial change External directorships inboth the executive and non-executive Board members, The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only the directors believe that to ensure stability and continuity one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
ofknowledge, new Board members should be given Details of the directors other directorships can be found theopportunity to settle into their roles before the intheir biographies on pages 62 and 63. longer-serving members step down see Evaluating our performance in 2014 15.
The Board will continue to execute Management changes against its succession plan and it is anticipated that there Angela Ahrendts stepped down as Chief Executive Officer will be further changes to the Board in the coming year.
and as a director on 30 April 2014 and Christopher Bailey was appointed as Chief Creative and Chief Executive All new Board appointments are based on merit, keeping Officer and as a director on 1 May 2014. inmind the Board composition principles adopted by the Committee.
These principles are to: Board and Committee composition and succession maintain current core competencies: The non-executive directors are drawn from a wide range ofindustries and backgrounds, including mobile, digital, add new competencies which reflect the evolution of the technology, media, retail, financial services, consumer Groups business: travel, hotels and hospitality, marketing, accountancy ensure compatibility with Burberrys culture and values: andgeneral management expertise.
They have extensive and experience of complex organisations with global reach, including experience of the Groups key markets of Europe, promote diversity, including in terms of gender.
the Americas and Asia reflecting the Groups strategy.
Theirvaried yet relevant experience brings a diversity Please see the Report from the Nomination Committee on ofperspective and useful insight to Board discussions page 79 for more information on the appointment process.
andimportant support to the management team.
The biographical details of the current directors can be foundon pages 62 and 63.
70 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Diversity and inclusion The performance of Philip Bowman, David Tyler, Stephanie George and Ian Carter has been subject to a rigorous review, including with regard to their independence.
Theirin-depth knowledge of the Group combined with the Male consistency they provide through their continued service, Female remains invaluable to ensure a smooth transition of the Board and its Committees.
Each of these individuals continues to demonstrate the attributes of an independent non-executive director, including contributing to constructive challenge and debate at meetings, and there was no evidence Board succession planning is focused on ensuring the that their tenure has impacted on their independence.
rightmix of skills and experience for the Board.
The Board believes in the importance of diverse Board membership, The Board is satisfied that all of its non-executive directors including in relation to gender, and has exceeded the goal bring robust independent oversight and continue to set out by Lord Davies on diversity in Britains boardrooms remainindependent.
of a minimum of 25% female representation of FTSE 100 boards by 2015.
Information flow and professional development The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary Currently, four out of our twelve Board members are female inthe planning of the agendas and schedule of Board including our Chief Financial Officer comprising 33% of andCommittee meetings and in ensuring that information our Board membership, which exceeds Lord Davies target.
ismade available to Board members on a timely basis The Board will continue to monitor diversity and take such andisof a quality appropriate to enable the Board to steps as it considers appropriate to maintain Burberrys effectivelydischarge its duties.
position as a meritocratic and diverse business.
As set out in the table Highlights of Board activities during The Board believes that it is critical that women are able 2014 15 on page 68, the Board is kept up to date on legal, tosucceed at all levels of the organisation.
Currently, of regulatory, compliance and governance matters through atotal workforce of 10,851, approximately 69% is female advice and regular papers from the Company Secretary, and approximately 37% of senior management is female.
the General Counsel and other advisers.
More broadly, diversity is at the heart of Group culture The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing which is characterised by a meritocratic and collaborative and facilitating a tailored induction programme for new ethos.
At our London headquarters, 60 different nationalities directors and their ongoing training.
During the year newly are represented.
appointed directors received an induction covering the key business areas and operations, the corporate functions, The Company continues to focus on evolving its strategies strategy and the Burberry brand and culture.
In addition, for recruiting and developing key talent within the business non-executive directors are provided with opportunities in a way which promotes the Groups cultural values and tomeet with members of senior management and to visit diverse and meritocratic environment.
See the Build our key stores, markets and facilities.
This included visits to Culture section on page 40. theGroups various operating facilities in the UK.
The Chairman considers the training needs of directors on Board tenure anongoing basis.
The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the appointment and removal 0 5 years of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the 5 10 years Board as a whole.
Directors may also obtain, in the 10 years or above furtherance of their duties, independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
The balance of tenure of service of the directors is set outinthe diagram above.
At the time of the 2015 Annual General Meeting, Sir John Peace, Philip Bowman and David Tyler will have served on the Board for 13 years.
Stephanie George will have been on the Board for nine years and Ian Carter will have served for eight years.
71 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Re-election of directors The Board has spent time reflecting on the disappointing At the Annual General Meeting in 2014, all continuing vote received on the Directors Remuneration Report at directors offered themselves for re-election.
Each director the2014 Annual General Meeting.
Consequently there was re-elected and no director received less than 93% hasbeen a focus during the year on enhancing the Groups infavour of the votes cast.
At the Annual General Meeting engagement with our shareholders and stakeholders on in2015, all of the directors will again retire and all will offer remuneration matters.
Our Chairman Sir John Peace and themselves for re-election or, in the case of the newly the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ian Carter appointed directors, for election.
met with or spoke to the majority of the Groups largest 50investors to discuss remuneration matters.
The Board believes that each of the directors standing forre-election or election are effective and, accordingly, In addition during the year, executive management theBoard recommends that shareholders approve the andourInvestor Relations team met with the Groups 25 resolutions to be proposed at the 2015 Annual General largestinvestors.
Topics discussed included but were Meeting relating to the re-election or election of notlimited to the Companys performance and strategy, thedirectors.
the management transition, the Directors Remuneration Policy and the operation of the Groups new share plan.
Managing conflicts of interest TheSenior Independent Director and all the other All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to non-executive directors are available to meet with avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct shareholders as required.
or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest with the Company and the Group.
The Group also conducted its regular independent investor audit of its major investors through Makinson Cowell, a Under the Groups Articles of Association, the Board has capital markets advisory firm, to gauge investor perception.
the authority to approve situational conflicts of interest The investor audit findings were presented to the Board.
and has adopted procedures to manage and, where appropriate, to approve such conflicts.
Authorisations Effective internal controls granted by the Board are recorded by the Company The Groups core strategies have been developed to exploit Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board at identified opportunities through the Groups business model.
Where material risks have been identified within the business, the Group has implemented an appropriate internal control A review of situational conflicts which have been authorised environment to endeavour to mitigate such risks.
is undertaken by the Board annually.
Following the last review, the Board concluded that the conflicts had been The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system appropriately authorised, no circumstances existed which of internal controls and risk management, and it discharges would necessitate that any prior authorisation be revoked its duties in this area by: or amended, and the authorisation process continued to determining the nature and extent of the significant risks operate effectively.
it is willing to accept in achieving the Groups strategic objectives the Boards risk appetite : and Engagement with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of regular open ensuring that management implement effective systems andconstructive dialogue with shareholders and other of risk identification, assessment and mitigation.
stakeholders, not just ahead of the Annual General Meeting, but throughout the year.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, Chief controls and risk management framework.
The Audit Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other Committee uses information drawn from a number of members of senior management give presentations different sources to carry out this responsibility including: toinstitutional shareholders and analysts immediately objective assurance provided by Internal Audit through following the release of the half and full year results its annual audit plan, which is approved by the Audit whichare then made available on the Groups website Committee and is formulated on the basis of a number atwww.
The Groups Investor Relations offactors including the principal risks identified in the and Company Secretariat departments act as the centre riskassessment and key internal controls: forongoing communication with shareholders, investors and analysts.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of the Groups key shareholders and stakeholders from this engagement or direct contacts.
72 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report regular reports to the Audit Committee from executive ischaired by the Chief Operating Officer and its members management and key Group assurance functions include the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Corporate detailing their risk management and compliance Affairs Officer & General Counsel, the Vice President approaches and highlighting any significant issues: Group Risk Officer, the Director of Audit, the Company Secretary and other members of senior management.
key outcomes from discussions at the Groups Risk Committee: and The executive directors also meet with senior management further objective assurance provided by external auditors.
on a regular basis to discuss performance, operational and budget issues to identify any emerging risks to achieving The internal control framework has been in operation for the the budget and strategic plan.
whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
As part of the Audit Committees ongoing monitoring of Regular self-certification has also been in place for key therobustness of the Groups internal controls, during the finance processes to confirm the documented control year Grant Thornton conducted an independent review framework continues to efficiently and effectively manage ofthe effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage The report findings concluded that the Groups Internal rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business Audit function was effective and included a high-calibre objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute team which operated under a continuous improvement assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Actions have been taken to address the areasidentified where the function could improve further.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed With thesuccession planning for the head of Internal theassessment of risks and the Groups internal control Auditalready being considered and in the context of the framework and has considered the effectiveness of the continued growth of the business, the review supported system of internal control in operation in the Group for the theGroups decision to evolve the Internal Audit function to year covered by the Annual Report and Accounts and up to create a separate Risk function in addition to Internal Audit.
the date of its approval by the Board.
This covered all material controls including financial, operational and compliance All internal audit activity is conducted by the Internal controls and risk management systems.
The process Auditteam under the leadership of the Director of Audit, followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal who reports to the Chief Financial Officer but who also controls as set out above accords with the guidance on hasan independent reporting line to the Chairman of internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
In view of Internal Audits findings, accords with the provisions of the Code.
management agrees and implements corrective action plans, which are tracked to completion by Internal Audit, Group approach to managing risks with the results reported to executive management, the The Group has an integrated approach to risk management Audit Committee and the Board.
and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is usedto inform the internal audit process and the design A newly created role following the Internal Audit function ofinternal controls.
review, the Vice President Group Risk Officer reports to the Chief Operating Officer and is responsible for ensuring A detailed three-year strategic plan and annual budget that the Boards requirements relating to business risk process provides the principal metrics against which the management are met.
This includes the design and performance of the Group is measured.
The strategic plan facilitation of the risk assessment process, the risk appetite and budget are agreed with the Board together with defined framework and providing oversight of key business change performance targets and risks.
The plan and the principal processes.
As part of the Boards consideration of the risks for delivering the strategy also form part of the Boards principal risks facing the Group, the Vice President Group annual review of Group strategy.
Risk Officer facilitates a risk assessment process in each key business area and global support function to review Executive management assesses risk on a regular basis thesignificant risks facing its operations and to record through the Groups Risk Committee which meets at least therelevant controls and any actions in place to mitigate three times per year and reports any key findings to the the risks.
The materiality of the risk is measured based on Audit Committee.
The Groups Risk Committee evaluates financial and non-financial criteria, and the probability of risk through reports made to it by Internal Audit and other the risk arising is also mapped.
The detailed assessments assurance teams and management committees.
The are then consolidated to provide input into the Group Committee benefits from cross-functional attendance riskassessment which is discussed and agreed by encompassing senior management of key areas such as IT, management at the Risk Committee prior to presentation Finance, Legal, Brand Protection, Corporate Responsibility, tothe Audit Committee.
The outcome of these assessments Human Resources, Supply Chain, Asset and Profit also inform the work of Internal Audit during the year and Protection, and Health and Safety.
The Risk Committee contribute to the development of the annual audit plan.
73 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report There are areas of the Groups business where it is The reporting process is supported by transactional and necessary to accept risks to achieve a satisfactory return consolidation finance systems.
Reviews of controls are for shareholders, with such risks reflecting the Boards carried out by senior finance management.
The results overall appetite for risk.
During 2014 15 the Audit ofthese reviews are considered by the Board as part Committee, in conjunction with the full Board, considered ofitsmonitoring of the performance of controls around and reviewed the nature and extent of these risks.
It is the financial reporting.
Groups objective to manage rather than eliminate such risks including keeping them under regular review.
The Audit Committee reviews the application of financial reporting standards and any significant accounting For details of the principal risks which may adversely judgements made by management.
impact the performance of the Group and the execution ofits strategies and the steps the Group takes to address Control environment these risks where they are matters within Group control, The Groups business model is based primarily on a see the Principal Risks section on pages 56 to 59. centraldesign, supply chain and distribution operation tosupply products to global markets via retail including Financial reporting digital and wholesale channels.
This is reflected in the Management is responsible for establishing and internal control framework which includes centralised maintaining adequate internal controls over financial direction, resource allocation, oversight and risk reporting.
These controls are designed to provide management of the key activities of marketing, inventory reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial management, brand and technology development.
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for Thisincludes central support in relation to corporate external reporting purposes.
governance, legal, brand protection, human resources, information systems and financial practice.
The Group has comprehensive planning, budgeting, forecasting and monthly reporting processes in place.
The Group has established procedures for the delegation Asummary of the Groups financial results supported ofauthorities to ensure that approval for matters that are bycommentary and performance measures is provided considered significant is provided at an appropriate level, tothe Board each month.
either because of their value or their materiality to the Group.
In addition, the Group has policies and procedures In relation to the preparation of the Group financial inplace that are designed to support risk management statements, the controls in place include: across the Group.
These include policies relating to treasury, the conduct of employees and third parties with a centre of expertise responsible for reviewing which the Group conducts business including prohibiting newdevelopments in reporting requirements bribery and corruption.
These authorities, policies and andstandards to ensure that these are reflected procedures are kept under review as the Group continues in Group accounting policies: to develop.
a dedicated financial governance team which is responsible for developing the Groups financial Accountability and audit controlprocesses and procedures and overseeing The Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is theirimplementation across the Group: and required to be fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders a global finance structure consisting of employees toassess the Groups performance, business model withthe appropriate expertise to ensure that Group andstrategy.
The Board is satisfied that it has met this policies and procedures are correctly applied.
A summary of the directors responsibilities for Effectivemanagement and control of the finance the financial statements is set out on page 110.
The report structure is achieved through the finance leadership of the Auditors on page 111 includes a statement by the team, consisting of key finance employees from the auditors concerning their reporting responsibilities.
74 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee membership The following directors served as members of the Report of the Audit Committee Committee during the year ending 31 March 2015: Dear Shareholder, Members Appointment date The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of Philip Bowman Chairman 21 June 2002 financial information and to provide assurance to the Board Fabiola Arredondo 10 March 2015 that the Groups internal controls and risk management Ian Carter 18 May 2007 systems are appropriate and regularly reviewed, together Jeremy Darroch 5 February 2014 with overseeing the work of the external auditors, approving Stephanie George 19 May 2006 their remuneration and recommending their appointment.
Matthew Key 26 September 2013 Carolyn McCall 1 September 2014 During the year the Committee continued to focus on David Tyler 21 June 2002 ensuring that the Groups systems and controls are operating effectively, are responsive to a challenging external environment and are evolving in line with the The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
This included the independent review by attendance record of Committee members is recorded in Grant Thornton of the effectiveness of the Groups Internal the table on page 70.
In addition to the scheduled meetings Audit function which found that the function operated the Chairman of the Committee meets separately with effectively.
In addition the Group separated the Internal representatives of the Auditor, the Chief Financial Officer, Audit and Risk function into two distinct areas of expertise Vice President Financial Controller, the Director of Internal to support the continuing evolution of the business.
Audit and Vice President Group Risk Officer on a regular basis, including prior to each meeting.
In addition he meets The Committee also considered the significant matters with other members of management on an ad hoc basis as setout in the table on page 77.
Where these significant required to fulfil his duties.
matters related to the financial statements for the year, the Committee requested papers from management setting out Regular attendees at Committee meetings include: the their approach, the key estimates and judgements applied Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer, and managements recommendation.
The Committee theChiefCorporate Affairs Officer & General Counsel, reviewed and challenged these papers, together with the theCompany Secretary, the Vice President Group Risk findings of the external auditors, in order to conclude on the Officer, the Director of Audit, the Senior Vice President appropriateness of the treatment in the financial statements.
Group Finance, the Vice President Group Financial Controller, the Senior Vice President Group Tax and During the year the Committee conducted a review of the therepresentatives of the external auditors.
standing agenda items for each meeting and refreshed theagenda to ensure that it continues to reflect the areas The Board is satisfied that Philip Bowman as Chairman where the Committee might most usefully focus its hasrecent and relevant financial experience and that attention to reflect the changing nature of the business.
allother Committee members have past employment Inaddition to the significant matters considered by the experience in either finance or accounting roles or broad Committee, the usual work of the Committee is set out experience and knowledge of financial reporting and or inthe table on page 76. international businesses.
Details of their experience canbefound in their biographies on pages 62 and 63.
The Committee has a constructive and open relationship with management and the auditors and we thank them for their assistance during the year.
With the requirement that the auditors rotate the audit engagement partner every five years,  partner Andy Kemp will bereplaced commencing with the 2015 16 audit.
The Committee would like to thank Andy for his work over the last five years.
Philip Bowman Chairman, Audit Committee 75 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Role of the Committee The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website at www.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually.
In light of its key responsibilities, the Committee considered the following items of usual business during the financial year as set out in the table below.
Key Committee roles andresponsibilities Usual business conducted during 2014 15 Review of the Annual Report and Accounts, annual financial statements, preliminary Financial Reports: announcement, and interim announcement.
On behalf of the Board the consideration The integrity of the Groups financial ofwhether the processes and procedures in place ensure that the Annual Report and statements and formal announcements Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the oftheGroups performance.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Consideration of the report of the external auditors on the financial statements for the year, and on the year end audit.
Ensuring compliance with relevant regulations for financial reporting and the Code.
Risks and Internal Controls: Review of the Groups statement in the Corporate Governance Report on internal controls and risk management.
The Groups internal financial, operational Review of financial, IT and cyber security control frameworks.
andcompliance controls and risk identification and management systems.
Review of Group Review of business risk assessments.
policies for identifying and assessing risks and Treasury Policy review and compliance.
arrangements for employees to raise concerns Risk Committee and Ethics Committee updates.
in confidence about possible improprieties.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy compliance.
Internal Audit: Consideration of the result of internal audits and management responses to the findings.
Approval of the internal audit plan for 2015 16. Review of the annual internal audit programme and the consideration of findings of any internal Independent review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Review of effectiveness of the internal auditfunction.
External Auditors: Review and approval of the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the Groups external auditors,  LLP PwC, for the 2014 15 financial year Recommending the appointment of external seebelow.
auditors, approving their remuneration and Review and approval of the audit plan for the year presented by the Groups auditors in overseeing their work.
Consideration of the key areas of risk and the audit approach applied to engagement of the external auditors for the these areas, the proposed areas of coverage of the audit, changes of scope and areas supply of non-audit services.
ofrisk in the current year plan and the resource plan.
Review of all non-audit services provided by the Groups auditors during the period and thefees relating to the services provided see page 78.
On the five year rotation of the audit engagement partner, the approval of new PwC audit engagement partner starting from the 2015 16 financial year.
76 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Significant matters The significant matters considered by the Committee during the year are set out below.
Significant matters for theyear ended 31March 2015 How the Audit Committee addressed these matters The calculation of the fair value of the put option The Committee reviewed and challenged the appropriateness of the key inputs used in the over the non-controlling interest in the Groups calculation of the fair value of this option.
The Committee also considered the sensitivity of the business in China.
fair value to reasonable changes in inputs and disclosures made in relation to the valuation, including the potential impact of the call option on the future accounting for the put option liability.
Further details of the valuation of the put option, which is valued at 54.4m at the year end, are set out in note 19 of the financial statements.
The Committee concluded that the fair value of the put option, the disclosure of the valuation methodology and of the impact of the judgements applied were appropriate in the financial statements for the year.
Impairment assessment of intangible assets.
The Committee considered managements assessment of the recoverability of the intangible asset relating to the termination of the fragrance and beauty relationship.
Given the materiality of this asset, the Committee requested management to update the valuation to reflect latest projected sales and margins, at each balance sheet date.
The reasonableness of these projections was considered, taking into account the current performance of the business andthe headroom in the valuation over book value.
No impairment in this intangible asset wasrecorded during the year.
Further details of the intangible asset are provided in note 12ofthe financial statements.
The recoverability of the cost of inventory and The Committee considered the Groups current provisioning policy, the historic loss rates theresulting amount of provisioning required.
incurred on inventory held at the balance sheet date and the nature and condition of current inventory.
Particular focus was given to the policy and provisioning for Beauty inventory, giventhe limited history of loss rates in Beauty compared to the other product divisions.
TheCommittee requested management to provide a detailed analysis of Beauty inventory atthe interim and year end, in order to consider the appropriateness of the provision recognised.
The Committee concluded that the carrying value of inventory was appropriate.
The Committee also requested management to continue to evolve their methodology forestimating the recoverable amount of Beauty inventory as more history of loss rates became available.
Movements in inventory provisioning are set out in note 16 of the financialstatements.
The Senior Vice President Group Tax, who reports to the Committee at each meeting, presented a detailed update of the Groups tax strategy, developments relating to discussions with tax authorities and the status of ongoing tax audits.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the appropriateness of assumptions and judgements applied in order to estimate the amount of assets and liabilities to be recognised in relation to uncertain income tax and deferred tax positions.
The Committee concluded that the assets and liabilities recognised and disclosures contained in the financial statements for the period were appropriate.
Details of movements in tax balances are set out in notes 9 and 14 of the financial statements and further disclosure of tax contingent liabilities is given in note 30.
Fair, balanced and understandable reporting.
The Committee considered the Annual Report and Interim Report, on behalf of the Board, to ensure that they were fair, balanced and understandable, in accordance with requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As part of this review, the Committee reviewed the report from the Strategic Report Drafting Team, highlighting key considerations.
The Committee considered comments arising from the review of accounts by the executive directors.
For instance, given the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, the Committee requested management to provide a detailed reconciliation of the calculation of the constant currency performance, which is included in the Strategic Report in the Group Financial Highlights.
An independent review of the constant currency reporting was also sought to provide additional comfort.
There were no changes to the constant currency reporting as a result of these reviews.
At the May and November meetings, the Committee also considered managements papers on the following subjects: assessment of the carrying value of goodwill: impairment assessments of property, plant and equipment: impairment assessments of trade receivables: and consideration of the potential impact of supplier rebates, which concluded that amounts received from supplier rebates did not have a material impact on the Group results.
77 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report External auditors Non-audit services The Committee oversees the work undertaken by The Committee recognises that the independence of the  LLP.
During the year the external auditors is an essential part of the audit framework Committee met with the external auditors without and the assurance that it provides.
The Committee has membersof management being present.
adopted a policy which sets out a framework for determining whether it is appropriate to engage the Groups auditors for Appointment and fees non-audit services.
This policy was reviewed during the year The Committee has primary responsibility for making in view of EU Audit Reform legislation.
Key considerations arecommendation on the appointment, reappointment set out in the policy include whether the services: andremoval of the external auditors.
The Committee are naturally tangential to the audit and which the assesses on an annual basis the qualifications, expertise, auditors are best placed to provide: resources and independence of the external auditors andthe effectiveness of the previous audit process.
cannot be regarded as naturally tangential to the audit, Overthe course of the year, the Committee has reviewed but where the external auditors are in a position to provide the audit process and the quality and experience of the the best service to the Group due to their previous audit partners engaged in the audit.
The Committee also experience, network within and knowledge of the reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement Group, or market leadership in a particular area: and for the 2014 15 financial year.
Details of the fees paid to represent a real threat to the perceived or actual theexternal auditors during the financial year can be independence of the audit team.
foundin note 7 in the financial statements.
Under the policy, the auditors may provide non-audit  LLP have remained in place services that do not prejudice their independence, subject to asauditors since prior to the IPO of the Company in 2002. prior approval as set out in the policy.
Proposed fees above They were reappointed with a new lead audit partner a certain level must be approved by the Chairman ofthe following a formal tender process undertaken by the Audit Committee, and fees must be activity based and not Groupfor the 2010 11 financial year.
The external auditors success related.
Fees paid to the external auditors for nonare required to rotate the audit engagement partner every audit services in any given financial year cannot exceed five years.
The current audit partner commenced his 70% of the average of the Group audit fees received over engagement for the 2010 11 financial year and is subject to the last three years.
This is monitored jointlyby Internal rotation after the audit of the Groups financial statements Audit and the external auditors on anongoing basis and for the 2014 15 financial year has been concluded.
A new prior to any additional non-audit services being approved.
audit engagement partner is in place for the 2015 16 At the half year and year end, theAudit Committee reviews financial year.
all non-audit services provided by the auditors during the period and the feesrelating to such services.
During the year, the Committee approved the reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement During the year, the Group spent 673,000 on non-audit  LLP as the Groups external services provided by  LLP being auditor.
The Committee recommended to the Board that 38% of the average of Group audit fees received over the itproposes to shareholders that  last three years.
Further details can be found in note 7.
LLP be reappointed as the Groups external auditors at the Groups forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
78 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee membership The following directors served as members of the Report of the Nomination Committee Committee during the year ended 31 March 2015: Dear Shareholder, Members Appointment date The role of the Nomination Committee is to: Sir John Peace Chairman 21 June 2002 review the balance and composition of the Board and Fabiola Arredondo 10 March 2015 itsCommittees, ensuring that they remain appropriate: Philip Bowman 21 June 2002 be responsible for overseeing the Boards succession Ian Carter 18 May 2007 planning requirements including the identification and Jeremy Darroch 5 February 2014 assessment of potential Board candidates and making Stephanie George 23 March 2007 recommendations to the Board for its approval: and Matthew Key 26 September 2013 Carolyn McCall 1 September 2014 keep under review the leadership needs of, and David Tyler 23 March 2007 succession planning for, the Group in relation to both itsexecutive directors and other senior executives.
This Role of the Committee includes the consideration of recommendations made The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination bythe Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer for Committee are set out in written terms of reference which are changes to the executive membership of the Board.
available on the Companys website at www.
During 2014 15 the Committee has continued to focus on executive and Board succession with the following key Activities during the year outcomes.
The Committee met three times during the year under The appointment on 1 May 2014 of Christopher Bailey review.
The table on page 70 gives details of directors asChief Creative and Chief Executive Officer succeeding attendance at these meetings.
The Committee spent a Angela Ahrendts.
significant amount of time overseeing the process which led to the appointment of Christopher Bailey as Chief The ongoing implementation of the Board succession plan Creative and Chief Executive Officer, and the appointments to evolve the Boards relevant skills and competencies of Carolyn McCall and Fabiola Arredondo as non-executive forthe future.
Further progress has been made on this directors.
The external search firm, Lygon Group, advised on during the year with the appointment of Carolyn McCall the appointments of Carolyn McCall and Fabiola Arredondo.
and Fabiola Arredondo as non-executive directors.
See Lygon Group has no other connection with the Group.
Board succession on page 70 and Diversity and inclusion on page 71.
Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include theChief Corporate Affairs Officer and General Counsel Board succession and composition will continue to remain and the Company Secretary.
a priority for the coming year as the Board continues to execute its succession plan.
Sir John Peace Chairman, Nomination Committee 79 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Annual General Meeting and annual re-election Other governance disclosures ofdirectors Tax strategy As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The Group is committed to complying with global tax Notice of the 2014 Annual General Meeting was sent to regulations in a responsible manner with due regard to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
governments and shareholders, and to engage in open A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions put before andconstructive relationships with tax authorities in the shareholders.
All directors serving at the time of the 2014 territories in which it operates.
The Groups tax planning Annual General Meeting, attended and the Chairman of the isconsistent with this responsible approach, and it will not Board and the Chairmen of each of the Committees were enter into arrangements simply to achieve a tax advantage.
available to answer shareholders questions.
The Group tax strategy is implemented through the Groups tax policy which directs and aligns the activities of the Voting at the upcoming 2015 Annual General Meeting will various functions within the Group in order to achieve be by way of poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual thestrategys objectives.
General Meeting will be announced and details of the voteswill be available to view on the Groups website Tax governance framework atwww.
com as soon as possible after The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the Groups themeeting.
tax policy which is implemented with the assistance of the finance leadership team.
This is reviewed on an ongoing It is the intention that all directors, including the Chairmen basis as part of the regular financial planning cycle.
In of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, addition, the Groups tax status is reported regularly to the will attend the 2015 Annual General Meeting and will be Group Risk and Audit Committees.
The Audit Committee available to answer shareholders questions.
isresponsible for monitoring all significant tax matters including the Groups tax policy.
Audit Committee meetings All directors have, since the 2011 Annual General Meeting, are regularly attended by a number of Group officers and offered themselves for annual re-election in accordance employees including the Chief Financial Officer, the Senior with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the 2015 Vice President Group Tax and the Chief Corporate Affairs Annual General Meeting, all of the directors will again Officer & General Counsel, who oversees all corporate retireand all will offer themselves for re-election or, in responsibility matters.
thecase of the newly appointed directors, for election.
Share capital The biographical details of the current directors can be Further information about the Companys share capital, found on pages 62 and 63 of this Annual Report.
The including substantial shareholdings, can be found in the Chairman confirms that, following the external evaluation Directors Report on pages 104 to 107. conducted during the year and the review of individual director roles and performance led by the Chairman, the performance of each of the directors standing for election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment totheir roles, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Accordingly, theBoard recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting relating to the re-election or election of thedirectors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the directors, including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
