Directors report | Audit Committee report Audit Committee report The Committee has a key role to play in overseeing the interests of shareholders by focusing on the integrity of our financial reporting and ensuring that the Company maintains clearly defined and established risk management and internal control processes and procedures.
been determined and the prospects of the Statement from David Sleath, Company have been assessed, are set out Chairman of the Audit Committee in the Corporate governance report on On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to pages 54 and 55. present our Audit Committee report for 2015, the purpose of which is to give shareholders The significant accounting matters an overview of the role of the Committee and considered by the Committee in relation to report on the work it has carried out to the 2015 financial statements were the during the past year.
accounting for business combinations, the carrying value of goodwill and other The UK Corporate Governance Code the intangible assets, taxation, defined benefit Code issued by the Financial Reporting pension schemes, supplier rebates and Council includes a number of provisions provisions.
These are discussed in detail in relating to the role and reporting the report that follows and the Committee is requirements of audit committees and satisfied that these matters have been accordingly this report has been prepared properly recorded in the Companys books in accordance with the relevant provisions and records and accounted for appropriately.
of the revised 2014 edition of the Code which applied to the financial year ended As a Committee we will continue to keep our 31 December 2015. activities under review to ensure that we are able to maintain high standards of financial Once again our activities continued to be governance in line with the regulatory focused on the integrity of the Companys framework and market practice for audit financial reporting and the related controls.
The Committee has a clearly defined role in the corporate governance framework of Role listed companies and acts independently The Committees principal role is to ensure of management to ensure that the interests that the Company has effective governance of our shareholders are properly protected over the Groups financial reporting, through the Committees oversight of the including the adequacy of related Companys financial management and disclosures, the performance of both the reporting processes and procedures.
There internal and external audit functions and are a number of key aspects to this including the management of the Groups systems of the use of appropriate accounting policies internal control, business risks and related and practices, supported by the compliance activities.
In particular the implementation of a robust assurance Committee is responsible for: framework in which the risk management and internal control systems, the internal monitoring and reviewing the integrity and external audit functions and the regular of the financial statements of the Group internal reporting of the Companys and the significant financial reporting performance against budgets, forecasts and judgements contained in them: prior year results are all very important.
In particular, this year the Committee has reviewing the effectiveness of the considered and approved the process by Companys internal financial controls: which the Board is able to meet its new reviewing the process for the management responsibility under the terms of the Code of risk and reviewing the assurance in relation to the viability statement.
This procedures over controls designed to specifically requires the Board to assess the manage key risks: prospects of the Company over an agreed period of time and to state whether the Board overseeing the Companys internal audit has a reasonable expectation that the activities: Company will be able to continue in operation making recommendations to the and meet its liabilities as they fall due over Board in relation to the appointment, the period of the Boards assessment.
re-appointment and removal of the Further details of the viability statement, external auditors: including how the appropriate period has 56 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Audit Committee report reviewing the appropriateness of the The Committees activities included: reviewing the process to be used in Companys relationship with the external supporting the Boards assessment of auditors, including monitoring the making recommendations to the Board the Companys longer term viability as auditors independence and objectivity: concerning the re-appointment of the required by a new provision of the Code.
external auditors and approving the agreeing the scope of, and the terms remuneration and terms of engagement Following each Committee meeting, I report of engagement and fees for, the of the auditors including the audit strategy any significant findings to the Board and statutory audit: and planning process for the current copies of the minutes of the Committee initiating and supervising a competitive financial year: meetings are circulated to all of the directors tender process for the external audit as and to the external auditors.
receiving and considering reports from may be required from time to time: and management and the external auditors in During the year the Financial Reporting developing and implementing a policy on relation to the half yearly financial report Councils Audit Quality Review team carried the engagement of the external auditors and the annual financial statements: out a review of the external auditors audit to supply non-audit services.
reviewing the half yearly financial report files relating to the year ended 31 December and the annual financial statements and 2014, the results of which were subsequently Pursuant to the terms of the Competition the formal announcements relating discussed by the Committee with the & Markets Authority Order, which was thereto: external auditors.
Although there were no introduced with effect from 1 January 2015, significant findings to report, the Committee the Committee is now solely responsible for receiving and considering reports from is satisfied that the appropriate follow-up negotiating and agreeing the external the Head of Internal Audit in relation to actions identified in the review have now auditors fee, the scope of the statutory audit the work undertaken by the internal audit been addressed.
and initiating and supervising a competitive function and reviewing and approving the tender process for the external audit where internal audit work programme for Financial statements and significant it is appropriate to do so and to make the year: recommendations to the Board as to the accounting matters reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditors appointment pursuant During the year and prior to the publication Companys internal financial controls and to any such process.
The Company has of the Groups results for 2015, the Audit the assurance procedures relating to the complied with the provisions of this Order for Committee reviewed the 2015 half yearly Companys risk management systems: the 2015 financial year.
The current version financial report and related news release, of the Committees terms of reference, which reviewing the arrangements by which staff the 2015 Annual Report including the were reviewed by both the Committee and may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial statements, the 2015 annual the Board in 2015, is available on the possible improprieties in matters of results news release and the reports from Companys website, www.
financial reporting or other matters and the external auditors on the outcomes of receiving periodic reports relating to the their half year review and the audit relating In the performance of its duties, the matters raised through such to 2015.
Committee has independent access to the arrangements: services of the Companys internal audit As part of its work, the Committee reviewing the Committees terms of function and to the external auditors and considered the following significant reference: may obtain outside professional advice as accounting issues in relation to the necessary.
Both the Head of Internal Audit reviewing the Committees effectiveness Groups financial statements: and the external auditors have direct access following an externally facilitated to me as the Chairman of the Committee and performance evaluation: Accounting for business combinations I held a number of meetings with each of For business combinations, the Group has a reviewing the effectiveness of both the them during the year outside formal long-standing process for the identification external auditors and the internal audit Committee meetings.
of the fair values of the assets acquired and function following completion of detailed liabilities assumed including separate questionnaires by both the Board and Activities identification of intangible assets using senior management within the Company: external valuation specialists where As Chairman of the Committee, I hold reviewing and approving the level and required.
The Committee reviewed this preparatory discussions with the Companys nature of non-audit work which the process and discussed with management senior management, the Head of Internal external auditors performed during the and the external auditors the methodology Audit and the external auditors prior to year, including the fees paid for such work: and assumptions used to value the assets Committee meetings to discuss the items and liabilities of the acquisitions completed to be considered at the Committee meetings.
reviewing the principal tax risks applicable in 2015.
The Committee concluded that it was In addition, separate discussions are held to the Company and the steps taken to satisfied with managements valuations of between the Committee and the Head of manage such risks: these assets and liabilities, including the Internal Audit and the external auditors as part of an ongoing programme to degree to which such valuations are without management present.
I also attend review specific areas relating to financial supported by professional advice from the Annual General Meeting to respond to reporting matters within the Groups external advisers.
any shareholder questions that might be businesses, receiving and considering a raised on the Committees activities.
The presentation about the finance function Committee met on four occasions during and control environment within the Groups the year and members attendance at those operations in both North America and meetings is set out in the table on page 52.
Continental Europe: and Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 57 Directors report | Audit Committee report Audit Committee report continued The carrying value of goodwill and other on the volume of products sold.
The the ethical standards of the Accounting intangible assets recognition of supplier rebate income from Practices Board.
A permitted service Goodwill is allocated to cash generating the arrangements based on the volume of requires specific authorisation from the units CGUs and is tested annually for products purchased may involve the Committee or myself as the Committee impairment.
The Committee critically requirement for some estimates to be made Chairman where it does not fall within the reviewed and discussed managements about whether certain conditions related to pre-approved categories or where its value report on the impairment testing of the such rebate income have been, or will be, exceeds the maximum pre-approved carrying value of goodwill and other met.
In reviewing the consolidated financial individual engagement value.
Such non-audit intangible assets of each CGU including statements, the Committee considered a service categories which are pre-approved the sensitivity of the outcome of impairment report from management in relation to the principally comprise tax services and further testing to the use of different discount rates key financial controls over supplier rebates, assurance services relating to preand considered the external auditors the accounting treatment for each type of acquisition due diligence and other duties testing thereof.
After due challenge and rebate, the value of the different types of carried out in respect of acquisitions and debate, the Committee concluded that rebates in the income statement for the year disposals of businesses.
It is the Companys it was satisfied with the assumptions and and the value of supplier rebate income policy to assess the services required on a judgements applied in relation to such receivables at the year end.
The Committee case-by-case basis to ensure that the most testing and agreed that there was no discussed the findings of the external appropriate adviser is retained.
As a result impairment to goodwill or other intangible auditors in this area and discussed with the Committee believes that it is sometimes assets.
Details of the key assumptions and management the supplier rebate accounting appropriate for this additional work to be judgements used are set out in Note 9 to process.
Having done so, the Committee carried out by the Companys auditors.
concluded that it was satisfied with the However other firms are also used by the Groups supplier rebate accounting process Company to provide non-audit services if Taxation for the year and with the value of rebate such other firms are thought to be best The Committee reviewed a report and income recognised.
placed to undertake the work involved.
received a presentation from the Head of Tax Details of the fees paid to the external highlighting the principal tax risks that the Provisions auditors in 2015 in respect of the audit Group faces, the tax strategy and a detailed The Group holds a number of provisions and for non-audit services are set out in risk assessment relating to the tax risks relating to properties including liabilities Note 4 to the consolidated financial identified including the judgements for onerous lease commitments, repairs statements.
The ratio of the fees relating to underpinning the provisions for potential tax and dilapidations and actual and anticipated non-audit services to audit services in 2015 liabilities.
The Committee also reviewed the legal, environmental and other claims.
results of the external auditors assessment The Committee reviewed reports from of provisions for income taxes and, having management and the external auditors Following the adoption of the EU Audit done so, was satisfied with the key concerning provisions with notable Directive and Regulation in 2014, the judgements made by management.
movements and those requiring a greater Financial Reporting Council has carried out degree of judgement.
The Committee two consultation exercises as to how it Defined benefit pension schemes considered the background to such intends to implement the Directive and The Committee considered reports from provisions and discussed with management Regulation in the UK.
It is expected that the management and the external auditors in the judgements applied in determining their final rules relating to such implementation relation to the valuation of the defined benefit value.
The Committee concluded that it was will be published during the first half of 2016 pension schemes and reviewed the key satisfied with the value of provisions carried.
and that the changes will apply to listed actuarial assumptions used in calculating companies for accounting periods beginning the defined benefit pension liabilities, on or after 17 June 2016 i. e. the 2017 External auditors independence especially in relation to discount rates, financial year in the case of the Company.
and effectiveness inflation rates and mortality life expectancy.
The new rules will include regulations to The Committee ensures that the external The Committee discussed the reasons for determine what type of non-audit services auditors remain independent of the Company the decrease in the net pension deficit and may be provided by the auditors of a and receives written confirmation from the was satisfied that the assumptions used company, introduce a statutory cap on the external auditors as to whether they consider were appropriate and were supported by level of non-audit fees which may be billed themselves independent within the meaning independent actuarial experts.
Details of the by the auditors and implement changes to of their own internal and the relevant key assumptions used are set out in Note 20 the Code and accompanying guidance which regulatory and professional requirements.
to the consolidated financial statements.
will be of particular relevance to audit Key members of the audit team rotate off committees.
As a result, as part of the 2016 the Companys audit after a specific period In addition to the matters above, which review of both its terms of reference and of time.
are referred to in the Critical accounting the Companys policy for the provision of judgements, estimates and assumptions non-audit services by the external auditors, In order to ensure that the objectivity and section of Note 2 to the consolidated financial the Committee will ensure that such terms independence of the external auditors is statements, the Committee also considered of reference and policy are fully compliant not compromised, the Committee has the following, significant accounting issues with the new regulations.
also pre-approved the non-audit service in relation to the financial statements: categories that can be provided by the During 2015 the Committee carried out a external auditors and agreed monetary Supplier rebates review of the effectiveness of the external amounts for each service category that can The Group has various rebate arrangements audit process carried out in relation to the be provided by them, subject to a maximum with a number of suppliers.
Some of these audit of the financial statements for the year individual engagement value.
Certain arrangements are based on the volume of ended 31 December 2014.
As part of this categories of services are prohibited under products purchased and others are based review, the Committee considered feedback 58 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Audit Committee report on the audit gathered through a detailed effectiveness of such processes.
Together Internal control and survey which was completed by each of the the work of the internal audit function risk management directors and members of the Companys provides the Committee with a further As mentioned above, the Committee is senior management team at both Group and means of monitoring the processes and responsible for reviewing on behalf of the business area levels.
The survey covered actions to manage and mitigate those risks Board the effectiveness of the Companys a total of 24 different aspects of the audit identified as posing the greatest threat to internal financial controls and the assurance process grouped under four separate the Company.
procedures relating to the Companys risk headings: the robustness of the audit management system.
These controls and process, the quality of delivery, the quality A review by the Committee of the procedures are designed to manage, but not of people and service and the quality of effectiveness of the internal audit function eliminate the risk of failure of the Company reporting.
Each respondent was asked to was carried out during the year.
The to meet its business objectives and, as such, award a rating on a scale of 1 to 5 for each Committee considered the results of a provide reasonable, but not absolute, aspect reviewed and to provide any additional detailed questionnaire completed by each assurance against material misstatement comments they wished to make in relation to of the directors and those members of the or loss.
During the year, the Committee the questions raised.
The Committee senior management team who interact with monitored the effectiveness of the internal discussed the findings of the survey and their the internal audit department and discussed financial controls framework through overall assessment of the work of the generally the work of the internal audit reports from the Finance Director, the Head auditors.
Having done so, the Committee department, the adequacy of resources and of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
confirmed that it was satisfied with the the skills and capabilities of the internal In particular the Committee considered effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee remains satisfied the scope and results of work of the internal The Committee will carry out a similar with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit function, the findings of the external effectiveness review in 2016 in relation to internal audit function.
In order to auditors in relation to the year end audit, the audit of the financial statements for the benchmark the internal audit department the assessment of fraud risk carried out year ended 31 December 2015. against best practice, an external by management, the controls over the assessment of the function is currently Companys financial consolidation and being conducted and overseen by the Auditors re-appointment reporting system, the treasury controls, Institute of Internal Auditors.
Once finalised, In considering whether to recommend to the the tax risks and the processes for setting the outcome of the assessment will be Board the appointment or re-appointment of strategic plans and budgets and for considered and reviewed by the Committee.
the external auditors, the Committee takes monitoring the ongoing performance into account the tenure of the auditors in of the Company.
David Sleath addition to the results of its review of the Chairman of the Audit Committee effectiveness of the external auditors and In relation to the risk management system, 29 February 2016 considers whether there should be a full the Committee reviewed the process by tender process either as a result of that which significant risks had been identified by review or as may be required by the relevant management and the Board, the key controls regulations.
There are no contractual and other processes designed to manage obligations restricting the Committees and mitigate such risks and the assurance choice of external auditors.
provided by the internal audit function, the external auditors and other oversight from As reported last year, following a detailed management and the Board.
tender process in 2014, the Committee subsequently recommended to the Board Internal audit that  LLP PwC The Company has an internal audit be appointed as the external auditors to department which comprises eight in-house replace KPMG Audit Plc who, together with auditors, including the Head of Internal their predecessor firms, had been the Audit who reports jointly to me, in my Companys external auditors since 1986. capacity as Chairman of the Audit Accordingly PwC carried out the statutory Committee, and the Finance Director.
The audit for the year ended 31 December 2014 scope of work of the internal audit function and were subsequently re-appointed as the covers all systems and activities of the Companys external auditors for the 2015 Group.
Work is prioritised according to the financial year following the passing of the Companys risk profile with the annual audit relevant resolution by shareholders at the plan being approved by the Committee each 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Internal audit reports are regularly provided to the Committee which include As a consequence of its satisfaction with the details of the audit findings, and the relevant results of its review of the external auditors management actions required in order to activities during the year, the Committee has address any issues arising therefrom, as again recommended to the Board that a well as updates on the progress made by resolution proposing the re-appointment of management in addressing any outstanding PwC as external auditors for the year ending recommendations from previously reported 31 December 2016 be put to shareholders at findings.
In addition, the internal audit the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
function reports on any significant issues relating to the processes for controlling the activities of the Group and the adequacy and Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 59
