Leadership and governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors SIMON JAMES IAN TODD IAIN ALEXANDER M. JACQUELINE KEITH PETER SMITH TYLER HUNT MCLAREN BERGER SHEPPARD QC LOUGH KALLOS THOMSON Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Biography Simon Thomson was appointed James Smith joined Cairn in March Ian Tyler graduated with a first Todd Hunt has more than 40 years Iain McLaren has significant Alexander holds a Masters degree M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Keith Lough is a chartered certified Peter Kallos has a degree in Applied Chief Executive in July 2011 having 2014 from Rothschild where he was class degree in Commerce from experience in the oil and gas experience in the oil and gas sector.
in Petroleum Engineering from Jackie Sheppard holds a BA accountant with an economics degree Physics from Strathclyde University been Legal and Commercial Director a director of the energy and power Birmingham University.
He is president and joint He is a chartered accountant and was Delft University and an MBA from from the Memorial University from the University of Edinburgh and a postgraduate degree in since 2006 and holding various posts team with 15 years experience as a chartered accountant with owner of Atropos Exploration formerly senior partner of KPMG Rotterdam School of Management.
of Newfoundland, BA and MA and an MSc in Finance from London Petroleum Engineering from Heriot across the organisation including advising E&P companies, oil majors Arthur Andersen in 1987, Company and Atropos Production in Scotland.
He is chief executive officer of in Jurisprudence from Oxford Business School.
He was Finance Watt University.
He held a number head of assets.
Simon originally joined and national oil companies on their subsequently holding a number Company based in Dallas, Texas.
Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. a private University and LLB from McGill Director of British Energy PLC from of posts at Enterprise Oil including Cairn in 1995 and holds an LLB M&A transactions and equity and of senior finance and operational Dutch exploration and production University.
She was executive vice 2001 to 2004 before becoming a Head of Business Development, Hons from Aberdeen University debt market financing.
James holds positions within listed companies company based in Amsterdam.
president, corporate and legal at founder shareholder and Chief CEO Enterprise Italy and General and a Diploma in Legal Practice a BA Hons from the University before being appointed chief Talisman Energy Inc from 1993 Executive of Composite Energy Ltd, Manager of the UK business before from Glasgow University.
executive of Balfour Beatty plc from to 2008 and appointed Queens a privately owned coal-bed methane his appointment in 2002 as Executive 2005-2013.
During this time, he took Counsel for the Province of Alberta focused business.
He held this post Vice President International and the company from being primarily a in 2008. until 2011, when Composite was Offshore at Petro-Canada.
In 2010, UK construction business, to a global divested to Dart Energy.
Peter became Chief Executive of infrastructure services business.
Buried Hill Energy, a UK based oil and gas business with activities in the Turkmen sector of the Caspian Sea.
Term of office Simon was appointed to the Board James was appointed to the Board in Ian was appointed as an independent Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an independent Alexander was appointed as an Jackie was appointed as an Keith was appointed as an Peter was appointed as an in November 2006 as Legal and May 2014 as Chief Financial Officer.
non-executive director in June 2013 independent non-executive director non-executive director in July 2008. independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive Commercial Director and became and became non-executive Chairman in May 2003.
Given his length of director in May 2010. director in May 2010. director in May 2015. director in September 2015.
Chief Executive in July 2011. in May 2014. tenure, he is no longer considered to be independent in terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Not applicable Not applicable Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Independent Simon is a non-executive director of James has no external appointments.
Ian is a non-executive director of Todd is president and joint owner Iain is chairman of Investors Capital Alexander is chief executive officer Jackie is non-executive chairperson Keith is a non-executive director Peter is Chief Executive of Buried External appointments Grahams The Family Dairy Limited BAE Systems plc and non-executive of Atropos Exploration Company Trust plc and a non-executive of Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. and of Emera Inc. a public Canada-based of Rockhopper Exploration PLC, Hill Energy.
and a member of the advisory Board chairman of Bovis Homes Group PLC.
director of Baillie Gifford Shin a director of Oranje-Nassau Energie international energy generation, a non-executive director of Papau of the Winning Scotland Foundation.
Ian was non-executive chairman Nippon plc, Edinburgh Dragon UK Limited and Oranje-Nassau transportation and distribution Mining PLC and Rock Solid Images of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Trust plc and Ecofin Water & Energy Petroleum Limited.
She is also a director of the Inc, and non-executive director throughout 2015.
In February 2016, Power Opportunities plc.
He is also general partner of Pacific NorthWest of the UK Gas and Electricity Markets Al Noor was acquired by Mediclinic a past president of the Institute of LNG LP, which was formed for the Authority, which has supervisory International plc, at which point Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
purpose of constructing, owning and responsibility for Ofgem.
In Ian stepped down as chairman of operating an LNG facility in British December 2015, Keith became Al Noor and was appointed Senior Colombia.
She is the founder, lead a non-executive director of Gulf Independent non-executive director director and chair of the audit Keystone Petroleum Ltd. of the enlarged group.
Ian was a committee of Black Swan Energy Inc. non-executive director and chairman a private equity financed upstream of the audit committee of Cable & oil and gas company with operations Wireless Communications plc until in Canada.
he retired from the post with effect from 30 September 2015.
Committee membership Simon chairs the Senior Leadership James is a member of the Senior Ian chairs the nomination committee Todd was a member of the Iain chairs the audit committee Alexander is a member of the audit Jackie chairs both the remuneration Keith is a member of the audit Peter is a member of the Team.
He is a member of the Leadership Team.
He is a member and is a member of the governance governance committee, the and is a member of the nomination committee and the governance committee and the governance committee, the nomination remuneration committee and nomination committee and attends of the governance committee and committee and the remuneration nomination committee and the committee and the remuneration committee.
committee and the governance the nomination committee.
meetings of the remuneration attends meetings of the audit committee.
During the year, Ian was remuneration committee until committee.
Alexander was a member of the committee.
committee by invitation and part of committee by invitation.
During a member of the audit committee 30 June 2015.
Following this nomination committee until each audit committee meeting by 2015, James chaired the Group Risk until he stepped down as a member date, Todd attends meetings 30 June 2015. invitation.
on 30 June 2015. of the remuneration committee Simon chairs the Group Risk by invitation.
62 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Non-Executive Directors IAIN ALEXANDER M. JACQUELINE KEITH PETER MCLAREN BERGER SHEPPARD QC LOUGH KALLOS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Iain McLaren has significant Alexander holds a Masters degree M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Keith Lough is a chartered certified Peter Kallos has a degree in Applied experience in the oil and gas sector.
in Petroleum Engineering from Jackie Sheppard holds a BA accountant with an economics degree Physics from Strathclyde University He is a chartered accountant and was Delft University and an MBA from from the Memorial University from the University of Edinburgh and a postgraduate degree in formerly senior partner of KPMG Rotterdam School of Management.
of Newfoundland, BA and MA and an MSc in Finance from London Petroleum Engineering from Heriot in Scotland.
He held a number Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. a private University and LLB from McGill Director of British Energy PLC from of posts at Enterprise Oil including Dutch exploration and production University.
She was executive vice 2001 to 2004 before becoming a Head of Business Development, company based in Amsterdam.
president, corporate and legal at founder shareholder and Chief CEO Enterprise Italy and General Talisman Energy Inc from 1993 Executive of Composite Energy Ltd, Manager of the UK business before to 2008 and appointed Queens a privately owned coal-bed methane his appointment in 2002 as Executive Counsel for the Province of Alberta focused business.
He held this post Vice President International and in 2008. until 2011, when Composite was Offshore at Petro-Canada.
In 2010, divested to Dart Energy.
Peter became Chief Executive of Buried Hill Energy, a UK based oil and gas business with activities in the Turkmen sector of the Caspian Sea.
Iain was appointed as an independent Alexander was appointed as an Jackie was appointed as an Keith was appointed as an Peter was appointed as an non-executive director in July 2008. independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive director in May 2010. director in May 2010. director in May 2015. director in September 2015.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Iain is chairman of Investors Capital Alexander is chief executive officer Jackie is non-executive chairperson Keith is a non-executive director Peter is Chief Executive of Buried Trust plc and a non-executive of Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. and of Emera Inc. a public Canada-based of Rockhopper Exploration PLC, Hill Energy.
director of Baillie Gifford Shin a director of Oranje-Nassau Energie international energy generation, a non-executive director of Papau Nippon plc, Edinburgh Dragon UK Limited and Oranje-Nassau transportation and distribution Mining PLC and Rock Solid Images Trust plc and Ecofin Water & Energy Petroleum Limited.
She is also a director of the Inc, and non-executive director Power Opportunities plc.
He is also general partner of Pacific NorthWest of the UK Gas and Electricity Markets a past president of the Institute of LNG LP, which was formed for the Authority, which has supervisory Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
In operating an LNG facility in British December 2015, Keith became Colombia.
She is the founder, lead a non-executive director of Gulf director and chair of the audit Keystone Petroleum Ltd. committee of Black Swan Energy Inc. a private equity financed upstream oil and gas company with operations in Canada.
Iain chairs the audit committee Alexander is a member of the audit Jackie chairs both the remuneration Keith is a member of the audit Peter is a member of the and is a member of the nomination committee and the governance committee and the governance committee, the nomination remuneration committee and committee and the remuneration committee.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 63
