Leadership and governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT During the year under review, I served as Chair of the audit committee alongside INTRODUCTION three of my fellow non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Iain McLaren Board to be independent.
Chair of the Audit Committee The members of the committee who served with me during the year were: Ian Tyler member of committee until 30 June 2015 : Alexander Berger: and Keith Lough appointed as a director and member of the committee on 14 May 2015.
Ian Tyler continued to attend meetings in his capacity of Chairman of the Cairn Energy PLC Board.
The members of the committee have been chosen to provide the wide range of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these duties.
The addition of Keith Lough to the committee further enhances this skill set.
Keith, Ian Tyler, and I are Chartered Accountants with recent and relevant financial experience.
Throughout 2015, our activities Alexander Berger brings comprehensive industry knowledge to the committee.
continued to focus on the integrity of the financial reporting of the Group and the appropriateness of internal controls and risk management processes.
In the current industry climate, the committee has focused on the economic assumptions adopted by the group and their impact on both the financial statements for the year and on the groups going concern assessment and longer term viability.
76 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The Terms of Reference of the committee take into account the requirements of the Code and are available for inspection on the Groups website.
A summary of the committees principal responsibilities and activities during the year is set out below.
Principal responsibilities of the Committee Key areas formally discussed Financial statements Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements Going concern conclusions and linkage to the of the Group and formal announcements relating viability statement: to the Groups financial performance: significant accounting issues at the interim and reviewing any significant financial reporting year-end see below : and judgements contained in them: and approval of the Groups Corporate assumptions reviewing accounting policies, accounting those impacting impairment testing are treatments and disclosures in financial reports.
summarised in Section 2 of the financial statements.
External audit Overseeing the Groups relationship with the Reviewing the external auditors scope and audit external auditors, including: plan for the 2015 year-end: making recommendations to the Board discussing the materiality levels set by the auditors: as to the appointment or reappointment approval of the auditors remuneration: of the external auditors: consideration of the results of the external reviewing their terms of engagement and audit with the auditors and management: and engagement for non-audit services: and assessment of the effectiveness of the external monitoring the external auditors audit see below.
Internal risk and assurance Reviewing the Groups internal financial controls Review of the Groups corporate and operational and internal control and risk management risk register: systems and oversight of the Groups risk review reports on the activities of the Risk management committee: and Management Committee: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness selection of internal audit work planned for 2015 of the Groups internal audit function.
and consideration for future years: and assessment of key findings raised from internal audits conducted in the year.
Whistleblowing procedures Reviewing the Groups whistleblowing Approval of the Groups whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are procedures.
in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Other matters Agree policy for approval of non-audit work to Classification of reserves and resources for the Companys auditors: and disclosure in the Annual Report.
review booking of Group reserves and resources.
SUMMARY OF AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR The audit committee met four times in 2015, with meetings arranged around the key external reporting dates.
The meeting in March focused on the 2014 year-end external audit process reported in the 2014 Annual Report, meetings in June and August on half-year reporting: and a December meeting on planning for the 2015 year-end cycle and external audit process and internal work programme for 2016.
At each meeting, the committee receives an updated report from the external auditors which either explains their plans and scope for a forthcoming audit or review, or contains the conclusions from that audit or review.
The audit committee also monitors the Internal Audit process, tracking the progress of internal audits and reviewing their output and recommendations.
Other business covered by the committee includes the approval of corporate assumptions and re-approval of the Groups policy on non-audit services and the Groups Whistleblowing Policy.
Subsequent to the year-end, a further meeting was held in March 2016 to conclude on the 2015 audit and significant issues.
At our request, the Chief Financial Officer and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these meetings.
Other relevant people from the business are also invited to attend certain meetings to give us the necessary insight into their own areas of business, for example in relation to the reporting of oil and gas reserves.
In addition, these meetings were attended by both internal and external auditors.
The external auditors receive copies of all relevant audit committee papers and minutes of all audit committee meetings.
In addition, I regularly meet privately with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Group.
EXTERNAL AUDIT The current edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Cairn not only adopted this policy but decided to comply with this provision early and completed an external audit re-tendering process in 2013.
 LLP PwC were subsequently appointed as external auditor of the Group, on our recommendation.
The 2015 year-end audit therefore represents the third year of PwCs tenure as Group auditor.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 77 Leadership and governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 2015 YEAR-END SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ISSUES The continued low oil price environment witnessed during 2015 and the Companys ongoing tax issue in India were the principal external factors which determined the significant accounting issues for the year end.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING The continued fall in the oil price during 2015 is an indicator that the Groups exploration, appraisal and development assets and related Goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the Groups assets is determined using financial models to estimate the fair value less costs of disposal of the assets.
The key inputs into the financial models, including the long-term oil price assumption are reviewed and approved by the audit committee.
Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions The committee reviewed and discussed the Groups corporate assumptions at The audit committee concluded that the continued use of a short-term each audit committee.
Managements proposed short and particularly long term three year oil price assumption based on the forward curve was appropriate.
price assumptions were debated at length and reviewed against benchmarking information provided by the Groups auditors and other third parties.
The committee approved the Groups long-term price assumption at the December 2015 meeting based on benchmarking available at that time.
The committee also reviewed other key inputs into the asset models including Updates were provided at the March 2016 committee meeting and the first oil dates, cost estimates and reserve estimates and production profiles committee were satisfied that no revision to this assumption was necessary.
comparing the movements in the year to the latest information available from operators.
The audit committee challenged management on the appropriateness The committee were satisfied that the other key assumptions were appropriate.
of these assumptions and the review that had been undertaken where these Where these are based on those of the operator, the committee were satisfied that assumptions were provided by the operator.
management had suitably challenged the appropriateness of these assumptions.
Sensitivity analysis prepared by management and disclosed in the accounts was The committee considered the sensitivity analysis provided in the financial reviewed and the committee considered if there were any further reasonable statements appropriate.
scenarios which could lead to a material adjustment to the impairment charge in the financial statements that should be considered.
Further details on impairment testing and sensitivity analysis can be found in Section 2 to the financial statements.
INDIAN TAX ISSUE Proceedings against the Government of India under the UK-India Investment Treaty seeking resolution of the retroactive tax dispute have now formally commenced following agreement with the Government of India on the appointment of the arbitration panel.
Cairn received a draft assessment order from the Indian Taxation department in March 2015 and the final tax assessment was received in February 2016.
Cairn remains restricted from selling its shares in CIL and CIL are restricted in remitting dividends to Cairn.
The committee considered the accounting implications of changes in the year.
Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions Following receipt of first the draft assessment order and, subsequent to the The audit committee agreed with the recommendations of management, the year end, on receipt of the final assessment order, the audit committee again Groups advisors and the opinion of the auditors that there was no requirement discussed at length whether either event triggered the recognition of a provision.
to make a tax provision in respect of the transactions subject to Income Tax Department of India enquiries and the restriction on sale does not lead to an For the 2014 year end, the audit committee having taken advice from the impairment of the asset or a tax provision.
Companys tax and legal advisors and the auditors concluded that the Company should not make any tax provision in relation to the transactions subject to Indian Income Tax Department review.
OTHER ACCOUNTING ISSUES There were two further material accounting issues where the audit committee challenged the judgement of management.
Reversal of deferred tax assets The audit committee examined management conclusion that it was no longer appropriate to recognise deferred tax assets at the balance sheet date.
The committee were satisfied that the approach management had taken to assess the likelihood of future profit available to offset tax losses was appropriate and that suitable sensitivity analysis had been performed to support managements conclusion.
Recognition of decommissioning provisions on development assets A decommissioning provision was recorded in the half-year financial statements for the Kraken development well abandonment and site restoration costs and in the second half of the year a further provision was recorded on the Catcher development for similar costs.
The committee noted that managements estimate was based on information provided by the respective operators of each development, subject to internal Cairn review and adjustment if necessary.
The committee challenged management both on the review process that had been undertaken, including assessing the consistency of assumptions applied to each decommissioning estimate, and the approach to assessing the estimate to be recorded at the reporting date.
The committee supported managements approach.
78 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY At each reporting date, management consider the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern see Section 1.2 of the Financial Statements on page 117.
The audit committee review and challenge managements conclusions so that we may, in turn, provide comfort to the Board that managements assessment has been considered, challenged and is appropriate.
Given the low price environment facing the oil and gas industry, the audit committee carefully reviewed managements going concern conclusion based on the Groups latest net cash position and the forecast exploration and appraisal spend in the period ending 31 March 2017.
This confirmed that the Group is fully funded to meet its work programme and firm commitments over this period.
The audit committee subsequently recommended to the Board that the Group continues to use the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
With the introduction of the viability statement, included on page 43, the audit committee took advice on this new reporting requirements from both the Groups internal auditors as part of a wider review of the Groups readiness for further Corporate Governance changes and external auditors before assessing the approach to be taken by management in preparing the viability statement.
The committee reviewed and provided feedback to management on their initial assessment of the viability statement requirements presented at the August 2015 audit committee.
Management presented their revised approach to the December meeting with which the committee agreed.
At the March 2016 meeting the committed reviewed and queried management on the sensitivity analysis prepared to support their conclusions reached.
Following this review, the committee recommended approval of the viability statement to the Board.
ASSESSMENT OF EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS The committee has an established framework to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
This comprises of: A review of the audit plan including the materiality level set by the auditors and The Committee agreed with the level of materiality set by the auditors.
the process they have adopted to identify financial statement risks and key areas of audit focus summarised in the Independent Auditors Report on page 105.
A review of the Audit Quality Inspection AQI Report on our auditors published There were no matters raised in the AQI report that caused concern for the by the Financial Reporting Council with particular emphasis on those key audit committee.
A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor judgement and The audit committee reviewed findings on the key audit issues identified.
the reasoning behind the conclusions reached.
The committee were satisfied that appropriate challenge had been made of management and that the audit process was robust.
Regular communications through formal papers submitted and presentations The Audit plan for the year ending 31 December 2015 was presented to to the committee and meetings between myself as Chair of the audit committee the audit committee in June 2015 and is summarised in the Independent and the lead audit engagement partner.
A formal questionnaire issued to all audit committee members and senior No matters of significance were reported.
Cairn management who are involved in the audit covering the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery, the quality of reporting and the quality of the auditors people and service.
Of particular focus for the Committee is the assessment of the judgement applied by PwC during each stage of the audit process including setting audit materiality, identifying the risks to the financial statements, evaluating audit findings and communicating those areas of judgement to the committee.
The audit committee noted the level of planned materiality and agreed on the levels of misstatements to be reported to the committee.
The final audit report was presented to the audit committee in March 2016.
After thorough discussion, the committee agreed with the conclusions that the auditors had reached noting the degree of judgement around the areas of significant audit risk.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE AND PROVISION OF NON-AUDIT SERVICES We have a long established policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The Group will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Group and cost.
These advisers may include the Groups external auditors, under a restricted set of circumstances, although, before the engagement commences, Cairn must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
The Groups current policy for approval of non-audit services was reviewed and re-approved by the audit committee in December 2015.
Full details of the Groups policy can be found on the Companys website.
During the year, PwC provided other services including certification of the Groups EITI submission in Senegal and providing the accountants report on the circular approving the sell-down of the Groups holding in Cairn India Limited should the current restriction be lifted.
A full analysis of remuneration paid to the Groups external auditor in respect of both audit and non-audit work is provided in Note 6.4 to the Financial Statements.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 79 Leadership and governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL AUDIT Following a competitive tender process, Ernst & Young LLP EY were appointed as the Groups internal auditor with effect from July 2013.
Prior to the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audits, the outcome of the annual assessment of effectiveness of internal control refer to page 73, the results of historical audits of fundamental business processes and the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The plan is then presented to the audit committee for review and approval.
The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the group risk management committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks and to update the group risk management committee on the internal audit work plan.
The audit committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors do, however, attend all committee meetings where internal audit updates are given and meet separately with the internal auditors to discuss areas of common focus in developing their audit plan.
WHISTLEBLOWING AND RELATED POLICIES The Group updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2012 and the new policy was reviewed by the audit committee and subsequently rolled out across the organisation.
The committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Whistleblowing Policy was reviewed by the committee in December 2015 and re-approved with no changes considered necessary.
The Group has in place a comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Corruption Management System and Code of Business Ethics and related training has been provided to all staff during 2015.
As Cairn enters new countries, further monitoring is undertaken and training is continued.
Further information regarding these policies can be found on the Groups website.
IAIN MCLAREN Chair of the Audit Committee 14 March 2016 80 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
