Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee is proud that the Company has been able to attract people of the calibre and skill of Perley McBride as Chief Financial Officer and Barbara Thoralfsson as a Non-executive Director to join the Board.
We have great confidence in their vast experience to help guide the Group through a time of significant change Role of the Committee Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE Review the composition of, and succession to, the Board Nomination Committee Chairman Undertake formal and rigorous review of Board member candidates, particularly taking into consideration the experience, skills and knowledge of the individuals Recommend to the Board the appointment of Executive and Non-executive Directors Ongoing assessment of the overall balance and performance of the Board To ensure that the balance of the Board and its committees is consistent with good corporate governance and complies with the minimum requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Terms of Reference set out the principal duties of the Committee in full, including its authority to carry out these duties.
com 66 Cable & Wireless Communications Meetings completion of the acquisition of Columbus, the incoming Cable & The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during the period Wireless Executive Team had the necessary skills and ability to 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015.
The attendance of each Committee perform their new roles within the Company effectively.
member is noted in the diagram below: Board diversity Members Nomination Committee meetings attended The Board continues to be supportive of Lord Davies recommendations on board diversity.
The Board understands the Members importance of diversity, including gender, and recognises the Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE 3 3 importance of women having greater representation in senior roles, as Simon Ball 3 3 evidenced by the appointment of Barbara Thoralfsson: and the various Mark Hamlin 3 3 appointments of women to senior executive roles throughout the 1 Brendan Paddick 0 0 Company as a whole.
The Board remains resolute in its policy that the Alison Platt 3 3 search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted, and 1 John Risley 0 0 appointments made, with due regard to the benefits of diversity on 2 Barbara Thoralfsson 0 1 the Board.
Where appropriate, specialist search consultants will be Ian Tyler 3 3 engaged to assist in the search for suitable candidates.
However, all 1 Thad York 0 0 appointments to the Board are ultimately based on merit, measured against objective criteria and the skills and experience the individual 1 Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York were appointed to the Board with effect can bring to the Board taking into account a number of factors from 31 March 2015, and therefore, did not attend any scheduled meetings during including the existing size of the Board, the balance of Executive and the year.
2 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the Board with effect from 7 January 2015, and Non-executive Directors, as well as the existing skills, knowledge, was unable to attend a scheduled meeting as a result of a prior engagement that was experience and diversity already represented, and the likely future in place before joining the Company.
As such, the Board does not consider that it is necessary to set any formal measurable objectives in relation to Main activities during the year diversity at this juncture.
Appointment of the Chief Financial Officer following the The composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, appointment of our new Chief Executive Officer, Phil Bentley, the independence, knowledge and diversity of the Board, will be reviewed Committee began to consider the experience and skills needed of annually as part of the Board evaluation process.
a Chief Financial Officer to complement our new strategic direction.
Russell Reynolds Associates, an external recruitment agency that has Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE no other connection with the Company, undertook a global executive Chairman, Nomination Committee search, having been briefed in full by the Committee regarding the 19 May 2015 qualities they were expecting of the short-listed candidates.
The agency identified two preferred candidates: and after conducting a thorough review of both, the Committee recommended Perley McBride to the Board.
The Committee was in full support of Perleys appointment due to his strong attributes and extensive knowledge of the sector and financial experience.
Perley then met with the Directors and was subsequently appointed to the Board with effect from 26 June 2014.
Appointment of a Non-executive Director the Committee considered the need to strengthen the Board further by the appointment of an additional Non-executive Director, particularly during a time of change.
Barbara Thoralfsson was recommended to the Board by Alison Platt, who had been impressed by Barbaras sector experience and cultural background.
Following separate meetings with the Chairman, Alison Platt, Ian Tyler and Nick Cooper, the Committee recommended the appointment of Barbara, as it was felt she would be a positive addition to the Board due to her knowledge and experience of the telecoms sector.
Barbara was subsequently appointed to the Board and the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 7 January 2015.
As a result of the acquisition of Columbus, Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York were appointed as Non-executive Directors on 31 March 2015 after approval by the Board.
In addition to the work by the Committee on appointment of Directors, and ahead of the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. Mark Hamlin undertook extensive research on behalf of the Board, mostly with regard to the Columbus executives, to ensure that on Annual Report 2014 15 67
