Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE INTRODUCTION As a company incorporated in the UK with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Ian Tyler Chairman Exchange, Cairn is required to report against the UK Corporate Governance Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website at www.
Cairn is fully committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Code.
The Board regularly reviews the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and has amended or enhanced the Companys governance framework to ensure that the Company complies with the Code other than as detailed on page 75.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles in sections A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This statement reports compliance with the version of the Code published in September 2014.
THE BOARD Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and At Cairn, we operate with integrity at all technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and times, recognising that in doing so the balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the industry and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial, Company will maintain the trust of its operational and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether many stakeholders.
executive or non-executive, objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, ability and diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are prerequisites The Cairn Board is committed to promoting high standards for appointment.
This also applies to senior management appointments below Board level and to our succession planning.
of corporate governance and understands that an effective, challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the Following the appointment of two new non-executive directors during 2015, Company to deliver its strategy and shareholders long-term the Board currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and interests, whilst also generating investor confidence that the six non-executive directors.
The current directors biographies are on business is conducting itself in a responsible manner.
Further pages 62 and 63. information on our strategy, business model and approach to operating responsibly can be found in the Strategic report The Company considers periodic refreshment of the Board to be positive as it brings new thinking to the Company as well as ensuring that the Boards section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
collective experiences equip it to direct the Companys strategy and meet its business needs as they evolve over time.
The Board is also mindful that an We have further strengthened the Board through the appropriate balance between directors who can bring a new perspective appointment of two new independent non-executive and those who provide continuity is essential for a business like Cairns.
Keith Lough was appointed with effect from 15 May 2015 and Peter Kallos joined the Board on Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed not only 1 September 2015.
The appointment process is summarised on gender but also on nationality and experience.
The Board has one female non-executive director and continues to demonstrate diversity in the broader in the Nomination Committee report on page 72.
We had sense, with directors from the Netherlands, the USA and Canada, as well as the previously announced that Todd Hunt would retire as a UK, bringing a range of domestic and international experience to the Board.
The non-executive director at the Companys AGM on 12 May Boards diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of 2016.
However, following discussions in Q1 2016, the Board experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, has now invited Mr Hunt to continue as a non-executive operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
Further director and a resolution for his re-election will, therefore, information on diversity within Cairn is included in the report of the Nomination be proposed at the AGM.
The decision that Mr Hunt remains Committee on page 72 and in the Strategic report section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
on the Board has been made to allow for a longer period of transition following the appointment of our two new DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES BETWEEN CHAIRMAN non-executive directors.
The Board also believes that given AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE the current state of the industry, having the experience and The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman knowledge of Mr Hunt on the Board will be of significant and the Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
We provide further explanation of this on page 68 in relation to the independence of our The Chairmans responsibilities include: the leadership and effective running of the Board: non-executive directors.
ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the determination and development of the Groups strategy: acting as guardian and facilitator of the Boards decision-making process: ensuring effective implementation of the Boards decisions: and ensuring open communications with shareholders and, in particular, understanding their issues and concerns with regard to governance.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 67 Leadership and governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Chairmans other commitments out with the Company are included in The main action points arising from the 2015 external performance evaluation include the following: his biography on page 62.
The Chairman devotes a significant amount of time to his role and regularly utilises the Companys London office to deal with Key actions Implementation Company matters.
Continue to develop the The Board conducted a second annual Board risk process Board risk workshop in December The Chief Executives responsibilities include: 2015 at which it undertook a detailed managing the Groups business and proposing and developing the Companys review of risk appetite and key risks.
strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board: Ongoing review of Board Board composition will be revisited leading the Senior Leadership Team in implementing the decisions of the composition to ensure it remains appropriate.
Board and its committees: Further increase explanation There is increased focus on distilling driving the successful and efficient achievement of the Companys KPIs and and simplify technical analysis technical data in Board papers in order objectives: and in Board papers to ensure that there is an appropriate providing strong and coherent leadership in representing the Company balance between clearly explained to its stakeholders.
management recommendations and any supporting technical information.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Iain McLaren continues to be Cairns senior independent non-executive director.
As explained above, some improvements have been identified and have already The main responsibilities of the senior independent non-executive director are been or will be addressed during 2016. as follows: to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary Following the external performance evaluation process conducted in 2015, the with other directors when necessary: Board and the Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through and that each director has performed well in respect of their roles on the Board and the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer its committees.
The Board believes that all of the directors performance continues has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate: and to be effective and that they each demonstrate commitment to their role.
to meet with the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present, at least annually, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The executive directors also have their performance reviewed by the remuneration committee against the Group KPIs which are set annually further details of the RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS KPIs can be found in the KPI section on pages 20 to 25.
The 2015 bonuses payable In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Companys to the executive directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme described directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
As such, each of further in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 104 were linked the directors will seek re-election at the AGM to be held on 12 May 2016. directly to the Groups performance against these KPIs.
Full biographical details of the current directors can be found in the Board of Directors section on pages 62 and 63.
INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board considers the independence of each of the non-executive directors PERFORMANCE EVALUATION on an ongoing basis, taking into account their integrity, their objectivity and their The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises that the contribution to the Board and its committees.
The Board is of the view that the performance evaluation process represents an annual opportunity to enhance following behaviours are essential for a director to be considered independent: overall Board effectiveness.
The Company first conducted an externally facilitated provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the assumptions, Board evaluation in 2012 and conducted internal evaluations in 2013 and 2014. beliefs and views of senior management and the other directors: questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously The 2014 evaluation resulted in some important recommendations for improving and dispassionately: the Boards effectiveness, including proposals to undertake in-depth workshops acts at all times in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders: on strategy and succession planning and to appoint two new non-executive has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Companys business and of the directors, all of which have subsequently been completed.
market as a whole which provides a solid background against which they can consider the Companys strategy objectively and help the executive directors This year, taking into account the requirement to conduct an externally facilitated develop proposals on strategy: and evaluation at least every three years, the Board approved an external board has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either directly performance evaluation for 2015.
The Company subsequently appointed or indirectly.
Independent Audit to facilitate this process Independent Audit has no other connection with the Company.
Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors against these criteria, the Board concluded that all non-executive directors Independent Audit reviewed a full annual cycle of the Companys Board and demonstrated each of the required competencies to a high level and are, Board committee papers.
They then conducted interviews with all Board therefore, each considered independent by the Board.
The Board does members and the Company Secretary during Q3 2015 and attended the however recognise that, in view of the characteristics of independence set October Board and committee meetings as an observer.
The results of their out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, Todd Hunt cannot technically review were included in a final report published in November 2015 which be deemed independent given his length of service.
The Board are however was presented and discussed at the December 2015 Board meeting.
confident that Mr Hunts judgement remains independent and that he continues to display all of the behaviours expected of our independent Following completion of the external evaluation process, the Chairman also non-executive directors.
held a series of one-to-one meetings with each of the directors in December 2015 in order to discuss the outcomes of the evaluation.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive director met with each of the non-executive directors excluding Ian Tyler in order to discuss appraise the performance of the Chairman.
68 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT During 2015, the subjects covered by these seminars included: New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
a session on the continuing obligations and responsibilities of directors This involves meetings with other Board members in particular the Chairman, under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules: senior management and the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, new an anti-bribery compliance update: directors are provided with a comprehensive induction pack which contains revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code and in particular the a wide range of materials including: new requirement for a viability statement: together with the Companys legal advisers, a deep dive on the Indian Board Board papers and minutes of previous tax matter and arbitration process: meetings: schedule of matters a presentation by the British High Commissioner in Senegal: and reserved to the Board: financial asset presentations by senior management at pre-Board meetings delegations of authority: list of Board further information on pre-Board meetings is included on page 70. and committee members and dates of appointment: and schedule of dates These seminars are held prior to Board meetings and are attended by all directors for Board and committee meetings.
present at such meetings the Company keeps a record of attendance.
Any Committees Terms of reference for all director may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
all media articles relating to the Company and all analyst reports relating to the Risk Terms of reference for Risk Company are distributed to all directors.
Management Committee and minutes of last meeting: current Group Risk Matrix and Risk Appetite Statement: INFORMATION AND SUPPORT FRC Guidance on Risk Management, The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it Internal Control and Related Financial to discharge its duties.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company and Business Reporting.
Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board Key policies Group Corporate Responsibility and its committees and between management and non-executive directors, Business Principles: Group Code of as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development Business Ethics: Anti-Bribery-andas required.
The Company Secretary ensures the presentation of high quality Corruption ABC Management information to the Board and its committees and that all papers and information System: ABC Business Partner Due are delivered in a timely fashion.
Board and committee papers are delivered Diligence Procedure: Dealing Rules and Model Code: Procedures, Systems securely through an electronic platform.
and Controls for Compliance with the Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules.
The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are responsible Organisation Group Structure Chart: latest for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts.
matters, and each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Governance UK Corporate Governance Code: FRC Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary.
The governance committee also Guidance on Board Effectiveness and supports the Board in relation to corporate governance matters and further Audit Committees: ICSA Guidance on information on the role of this committee is provided on page 73.
Liability of non-executive directors: GC100 Directors Remuneration There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in furtherance Reporting Guidance.
of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Legal regulatory Memorandum for directors on Companys expense.
their responsibilities and obligations as directors.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE Insurance Full details of directors The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Company also provides, on an ongoing basis, the necessary resources for The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
All directors are Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary or Deputy training for its directors.
In 2015, the Company continued with its practice of Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or otherwise which providing a directors education programme consisting of a number of seminars may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
There are no conflict for Board members, which are presented by the Companys external advisers matters which require to be authorised for the current directors.
The Board will guest speakers members of senior management, on subjects appropriate to continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
the Companys business, including changes to legislation, regulation and market practice.
MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD AND DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
During 2015, the Board conducted an in-depth review of this and adopted an updated schedule of matters reserved which is now divided into categories covering different types of decisions, including: corporate: Board directors: financial operational: and legal regulatory.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 69 Leadership and governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered and The MT meets formally six to nine times per year with four of those meetings approved during 2015 were: focusing on a quarterly performance review of the business.
Corporate Board Directors The key elements of the MTs role include the following: The Companys 2014 Annual The appointment of two new develop and implement a Business Plan, which will deliver the Companys Report and Accounts and 2015 non-executive directors strategic objectives these will be reflected in annual KPIs, including HSE : interim accounts critically assess and determine the mitigation plans for key business risks and The Companys 2015 AGM circular Various changes to Board committees ensure that all risks are captured and reviewed regularly in the Companys risk register: The Companys Risk Appetite Statement co-ordinate operations and licence management along with resource allocation and organisational alignment to ensure timely and cost-effective Financial Operational Legal Regulatory delivery against approved budgets: Health, Safety, Security and Environment matters: and The appropriateness of the Group Commencement of arbitration review and approve other day-to-day business requirements.
going concern sign-off for the process seeking resolution of the 2014 full year accounts and 2015 Indian tax issue interim accounts The Exploration Leadership Team ELT, which is chaired by the Director of The Companys first viability Exploration, comprises the Group Geoscience Manager, the Chief Geologist, the statement see page 43 Chief Geophysicist, three regional Exploration Managers and a representative from new ventures new business.
Selection of a mobile offshore drilling unit and well management services for the 2015 16 Senegal drilling The ELT meets every two weeks to facilitate alignment, consistency, best practice programme and team work in the following areas: Participation in the Norwegian ensuring exploration, appraisal and new venture opportunities align with the APA 2015 licensing round Companys Business Plan: ensuring consistent screening and ranking of exploration opportunities The Board also has an approved set of financial delegations of authority to prior to detailed assessment, thereby utilising the significant knowledge ensure clarity throughout the business concerning the distinction between and experience of the ELT: financial matters which require Board approval and those that can be delegated developing and implementing new geosciences technology and techniques to senior management.
where appropriate for application within the Company to reduce subsurface uncertainty and or risks: and The senior executive management structure at Board level and beneath remains ensuring appropriate representation at resource assessment reviews and unchanged from that disclosed in last years corporate governance statement, other internal subsurface peer reviews.
with the Senior Leadership Team SLT and Management Team MT continuing to play a key role in supporting the Board.
BOARD MEETINGS During 2015, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, with all of these The SLT comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief meetings taking place over two consecutive days.
The first day includes a Chief Operating Officer COO, the Director of Exploration, the Companys two Executives lunch with the non-executive directors and a Board education Regional Directors and the General Manager, Senegal.
The SLT is chaired by the session followed by a pre-Board meeting and a Board dinner in the evening.
The Chief Executive and meets six times per year with those meetings scheduled pre-Board meeting includes a detailed presentation from senior management on in advance of Board meetings.
key projects, assets or matters to be considered at the Board meeting and thereby provides an excellent opportunity for a technically rigorous discussion.
It also Key elements of the SLTs role include the following: allows the Board to more fully understand any risks or challenges to the business devise and generate the Companys strategy to be proposed to the Board for plan and strategy and allows exposure to talent within the Company.
approval and implement and communicate this strategy across the business: implement the business plan, the key performance indicators and annual work The Companys Board meetings are then held on the second day and followed by programme and budget following their approval by the Board: a Board lunch.
Board committee meetings are held on either the first or second consider business development and new venture projects prior to submitting day or, depending on the number of committee meetings required, on both days.
these to the Board: and All Board committee meetings take place prior to the main Board meeting so that provide leadership and guidance to the Company on vision, strategy, the chair of each committee can provide a report to the Board.
corporate governance, corporate responsibility and HSE matters.
Two of the Board meetings during 2015 were held at the Companys registered The members of the SLT are also members of the RMC, which identifies and office in Edinburgh, three were held at the Companys office in London and one reviews key business risks further information on the role of the RMC is was held in Senegal.
Details of attendance at each of those Board meetings, and contained in the internal control section of this statement on pages 73 and 74. at meetings of each of the Board committees, are set out in the table to the right.
The MT comprises the COO chair, the Director of Exploration, the Deputy Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings Finance Director, two Regional Directors, the General Manager, Senegal, is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting and four functional managers Human Resources Manager, Legal Manager, by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing facilities are used HSE Manager and Business Development and New Ventures Manager.
when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
70 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes BOARD COMMITTEES presentations from senior management, is set by the Chairman in consultation The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee, with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Formal minutes of all Board a nomination committee and a governance committee, each of which has formal and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the next Board terms of reference approved by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference, meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the which satisfy the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, are members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the available on the Companys website.
There is also a procedure in place to allow Board meetings to be convened at short notice where required to deal with specific matters which need Each of the Board committees is provided with all necessary resources to to be considered between scheduled Board meetings.
enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees with the exception of the The non-executives have a practice of meeting informally before and after audit committee, where the Deputy Company Secretary undertakes this role.
each Board meeting without executive directors being present.
At these The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
non-executive forums, the non-executive directors are invited by the Chairman to bring forward any matter pertaining to the business of the Board that they Set out below are reports from each of the Board committees, with the exception believe would benefit from discussion in such forum.
This practice also applies of the audit committee report which, in line with best practice, is presented after Board committee meetings in particular the remuneration and audit as a separate report on pages 76 to 80 rather than being included in the corporate committees to ensure that non-executive directors can discuss any relevant governance statement.
The remuneration committee section below covers only issues arising from those meetings without executive management being present.
the composition and role of the committee, with full details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments given DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS in the separate Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 104.
The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2015.
The Board and committee REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT members achieved full attendance at all meetings.
The members of the remuneration committee during the year were as follows: Jackie Sheppard Chair : Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Iain McLaren: Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Ian Tyler: Meetings held Peter Kallos appointed as a member of the committee on 1 September 1 during 2015 6 4 4 3 3 2015 : and Todd Hunt retired as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015.
Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended attended The remuneration committee met four times during 2015 and currently Executive Directors comprises four independent non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive is not a Simon Thomson member of the committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
The committees 2 2 Chief Executive 6 n a n a 3 n a remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street, also attended some of the committees 3 James Smith CFO 6 n a n a n a 3 meetings.
None of the members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own Non-Executive Directors remuneration.
The committee has established a practice of meeting informally 4 Ian Tyler Chairman 6 2 4 3 3 without any executive directors or advisers present after each committee meeting Iain McLaren senior to allow the non-executives to discuss any matter which has arisen in the meeting independent director 6 4 4 3 n a or relating to the duties of the committee which they believe would benefit from 5 5 5 discussion in such forum.
Todd Hunt 6 n a 2 2 2 6 Alexander Berger 6 4 n a 2 3 The role of the committee includes: Jackie Sheppard 6 n a 4 n a 3 determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for the 7 executive directors, the Chairman, and the Companys Persons Discharging Keith Lough 4 3 n a 2 1 Managerial Responsibilities PDMRs : 8 Peter Kallos 2 n a 2 1 n a within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration package for the executive directors: Notes: determining the level of awards made under the Companys long-term n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
incentive plans and share option plans and the performance conditions 1 During 2015, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the which are to apply: audit committee, remuneration committee, nomination committee and governance committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
determining bonuses payable under the Companys annual cash bonus scheme: 2 Simon Thomson is not a member of the remuneration committee but attends its meetings determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long-term incentive by invitation.
Mr Thomson also attends part of each audit committee meeting by invitation.
plans and exercise of share options: and 3 James Smith is not a member of the audit committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and 4 Ian Tyler retired as a member of the audit committee with effect from 30 June 2015.
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to that date.
termination payments for executive directors.
5 Todd Hunt retired as a member of the remuneration, nomination and governance committees with effect from 30 June 2015.
6 Alexander Berger retired as a member of the nomination committee with effect from 30 June 2015.
7 Keith Lough was appointed a member of the Board and of the audit, nomination and governance committees with effect from 14 May 2015.
The number of meetings he attended is stated from that date.
8 Peter Kallos was appointed a member of the Board and of the remuneration and nomination committees with effect from 1 September 2015.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 71 Leadership and governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT DIVERSITY The members of the nomination committee during the year were as follows: The nomination committee very much takes into account the benefits of diversity Ian Tyler Chair : on the Board, including gender.
The Company currently has one female director Iain McLaren: and the Board is very diverse in terms of the range of nationality and international Simon Thomson: experience of its members.
The directors diverse range of experience and Keith Lough appointed as a member of the committee on 14 May 2015 : expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and Peter Kallos appointed as a member of the committee on 1 September gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, 2015 : legal and commercial expertise.
Todd Hunt retired as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015 : and Alexander Berger retired as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015.
Cairn aspires to diversify its Board further as part of its succession planning policy.
In seeking to achieve this aspiration, the Company will not appoint an individual to The nomination committee met three times in 2015.
The Chairman and three the Board unless they are the best candidate for the role, whether male or female.
of the Companys independent non-executive directors are members of the Whilst a number of women were considered during the recruitment process to committee.
In addition, to ensure continuing executive input on nomination appoint the Companys two new non-executive directors, unfortunately the matters, the Chief Executive is also a member of the committee.
selection process did not identify a woman as the best candidate for either role.
The role of the nomination committee includes: Beneath Board level, the Company has however continued to develop and evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge increase the number of women in senior management roles across the Group.
on the Board: and There is currently one woman on the SLT representing 14% of total membership leading the process for Board appointments and making recommendations and there are two women on the MT representing 20% of total membership.
to the Board in respect of new appointments.
The Company operates a range of measures which support diversity at Cairn, The committee considers, on an ongoing basis, the balance of skills, experience, including succession planning, training and development and flexible working independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its diversity policies.
The pipeline of younger talent within the Group is also diverse and including gender, how the Board works together as a unit, and other factors bodes well for the future.
relevant to the Boards effectiveness.
SUCCESSION PLANNING One of the main recommendations arising from last years performance evaluation The nomination committee regularly evaluates the balance of skills, experience, was to consider the composition of the Board in light of the changes to the Board independence and knowledge on the Board and makes recommendations to the during 2014.
The Company publicly stated its aim to do this in last years corporate Board as appropriate.
The Board has satisfied itself that plans are in place for governance statement and confirmed that external recruitment consultants orderly succession for appointments to the Board and for senior management, Ridgeway Partners had been instructed in connection with the proposed so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the appointments.
Ridgeway Partners has no other connection with the Company.
Company and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
On 29 April 2015, the Company announced the appointment of Keith Lough The Board and the nomination committee have regularly discussed and reviewed and Peter Kallos as independent non-executive directors and the process with Board composition and succession planning throughout 2015 and this will continue regard to these appointments is described below.
in 2016 in view of the Board changes which have taken effect during the year.
NEW APPOINTMENTS DURING 2015 However, one of the main recommendations arising from last years performance evaluation was that the Board required a clearer process for fully understanding Ridgeway Partners were briefed regarding the proposed appointments in Q4 2014 and, following a confidential initial research phase, provided a long-list in succession planning beneath Board level.
The Company was also mindful that this was particularly important given the staff reorganisation process undertaken January 2015.
Following screening of the long-list a number of candidates were then short-listed for interview by Ridgeway.
Following these interviews, Ridgeway in 2014. put forward four candidates for consideration by the Company.
All of these candidates were then interviewed by the Chairman and Chief Executive pursuant The Board therefore undertook a detailed review of succession planning at its meeting in June 2015, which clearly identified potential successors for key roles to which Keith Lough and Peter Kallos were selected as the preferred candidates.
The Board considered succession planning for each of these positions, analysed any succession gaps or risks identified and considered Following selection and prior to their appointment, Mr Lough and Mr Kallos met with the other members of the Board, the Company Secretary, senior how best to develop the succession pipeline.
The Board now has a deeper understanding of succession planning across the Company and the range of management and some of the Companys key external advisers.
Both were given the opportunity to, and subsequently did, carry out due diligence on measures being used to continue to develop and recruit talented employees.
The nomination committee then recommended to the Board that Mr Lough and Mr Kallos be appointed as non-executive directors of the More information on succession planning can be found on page 48 of this annual report.
Company and the proposed appointments were unanimously approved by the Board.
Keith Lough was appointed with effect from 14 May 2015 and was also appointed as a member of the audit, nomination and governance committees with effect from that date.
Peter Kallos was appointed with effect from 1 September 2015 and was also appointed as a member of the remuneration and nomination committees with effect from that date.
72 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities The members of the governance committee during the year were as follows: Jackie Sheppard Chair : and prospects.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 12 May 2016 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is contained in the Alexander Berger: Ian Tyler: shareholder circular posted with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Further explanation of each of the resolutions can also be found in the circular.
James Smith: Keith Lough appointed as a member of the committee on 14 May 2015 : and The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be Todd Hunt retired as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015. counted before the AGM and the results will be made available following the meeting after the shareholders have voted in a poll on each resolution.
Both the The governance committee met three times in 2015 and is comprised of a majority of non-executive directors.
In addition, to ensure continuing executive Form of Proxy and the poll card for the AGM include a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular input on governance matters, the CFO is also a member of the committee.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes The role of the governance committee includes: reviewing and approving changes to the Boards corporate governance for or against a resolution.
practices and policies: monitoring the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance INFORMATION PURSUANT TO THE TAKEOVER DIRECTIVE The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 7.2.
6 Code and with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements: and reviewing developments in corporate governance generally and advising the directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of directors: powers of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the law and practice of corporate governance.
Company in the Directors Report.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS INTERNAL CONTROL The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
The Company has implemented the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company has in place an Integrated Internal Control and Assurance Framework the framework, which plays a electronic communication with its shareholders, in order to give shareholders more choice and flexibility in how they receive information from the Company.
critical role in setting out how the Company manages and assures itself that the risks relating to the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives are Cairn responds promptly to correspondence from shareholders and its website contains a wide range of information on the Company, including a dedicated effectively controlled.
The framework is based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations COSO framework and its five key components, which is a investor relations section.
commonly used and recognised framework for considering internal control systems.
The COSO framework, which was first released in 1992 and updated In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional in 2013, seeks to help organisations develop systems of internal control which help facilitate the achievement of business objectives and improvements in shareholders, including meetings with executive management after the announcement of the year-end and half-yearly results.
The Chairman is available Company performance.
The framework also supports organisations in adapting to increasingly complex business environments and managing risks to acceptable to attend a number of these meetings.
The Board is kept informed of any issues raised by shareholders both as a standing agenda item in Board papers and levels with the aim of safeguarding shareholders interests and Company assets.
This system of internal control is in accordance with the UK Corporate through feedback at pre-Board meetings and following results or other significant announcements.
In addition, the Company maintains an investor Governance Code and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not relations database which details all meetings between the Company and its investors or other related stakeholders.
All analyst reports relating to the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Company are also distributed to the Board.
The framework has been in place for the 2015 financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board has carried out a review A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the Directors Report on page 65.
The Company recognises that the success of the comply-or-explain of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2015 and will ensure that a similar review is performed in 2016.
In so doing, the Board took into account approach under the UK Corporate Governance Code depends on an ongoing and open dialogue with shareholders, and remains committed to communicating the assurance provided by the Chief Executive in respect of the effectiveness of the system of internal control within the Company.
The Board is accordingly with shareholders, as well as proxy voting agencies, on any matter which they wish to discuss in relation to the Companys governance.
satisfied that effective controls are in place and that risks have been mitigated to a tolerable level across the Group in 2014.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM Cairn seeks to create value through oil and gas exploration and production while The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all of the directors to attend the at the same time safeguarding the environment and respecting and contributing to the communities it is a part of.
In order to achieve this, Cairns core values of AGM.
Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances the chair of each of the Board committees will be building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly are at the core of the business, informing how the Company operates.
These values are promoted available to attend the AGM and be prepared to answer questions.
to Cairns employees, partners and contractors.
Cairns licence to operate depends on transparent relationships and active stakeholder engagement programmes with our many stakeholders including governments, communities, partners, shareholders and suppliers globally.
The directors believe that this commitment to strong governance generates trust and ensures consistent global standards and is critical to the Companys success.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 73 Leadership and governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Particular attention has been placed by the Companys management during 2015 The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement the Business Plan and to deliver the agreed work programmes within the on ensuring that an effective system of internal control has been maintained during the year in relation to the key risks in the Companys business activities.
approved budget and delegations of authority, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
Enhancements have been made during 2015 to the following key controls, business processes and procedures: 3.
RISK MANAGEMENT the Group developed a Cairn Operating Standards manual of core business processes which outlines the Cairn way for executing key processes.
The Board is responsible for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems across the Cairn Group and must satisfy itself that the significant The manual was rolled out across the Group in Q3 2015 and compliance with the business standards became mandatory from Q1 2016: risks faced by the Group are being managed appropriately and that the system of risk management and internal control is sufficiently robust to respond to internal the suite of policies and procedures which form the Groups Corporate Responsibility Management System CRMS were developed or revised or external changes in the Groups business environment.
to achieve alignment with the Cairn Operating Standards and the latest International Association of Oil and Gas Producers IOGP guidance.
The RMC continues to be responsible for the development of risk management strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation The revised CRMS was rolled out across the Group in Q4 2015: the Group Risk Management Procedure was updated to incorporate a of the requirements of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for number of recommendations from a recent risk management audit and to include some emerging practice in risk management.
Plans are in place purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to these risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite Statement agreed by the Board.
to provide training to the Group on the new procedure in Q2 2016: a test of the Business Continuity Plan was completed in Q4 2015 with To supplement the role of the RMC, the Group Risk Management Procedure positive results.
The Group enhanced its business continuity recovery capability with the addition of a further disaster recovery site close to defines the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group.
the Head Office: and assurance maps were developed for the principal risks to the Group.
The Group Risk Management Procedure also identifies the risk management organisational structure through which business risks are managed and regularly These maps have helped to identify potential areas of control weakness and or ineffective use of assurance resources which may require further reviewed at operating, asset, country and Company levels.
Asset, project, country and functional level risk registers are used to capture, assess, monitor and review independent assurance in 2016. risks before the principal risks are consolidated into the Group Risk Register.
The following describes the key elements of the framework and the processes used by the Board during 2015 to review the effectiveness of the system and In 2015, risk management updates were presented at each Board meeting and as part of an annual process, the Board undertook a strategic risk workshop which the approach to be taken in 2016. analysed the key threats and opportunities which could impact on achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
STRATEGIC DIRECTION The Companys strategy and business plan are proposed by the SLT and approved The RMC, which meets on a quarterly basis, was chaired by the CFO in 2015 by the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the Companys business and implementing the Companys strategy and overall commercial and comprises the executive directors and senior functional management.
The objectives in consultation with the Board and SLT.
The Chief Executive is also internal auditor also attends RMC meetings, in order to ensure internal audits responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees integration with the risk management process.
In line with the Companys biannual and driving performance against the Companys KPIs.
rotation plan, the Chief Executive will chair the RMC during 2016.
Regular MT risk meetings were also held during 2015 to manage and facilitate the assessment 2.
OPERATING MANAGEMENT and treatment of business risks that may affect the Companys ability to deliver The Company operates three regional units covering different countries and its strategy.
with various partners on both an operated and non-operated basis.
Supporting the strategy is a matrix organisation, where the assets are the principal focus, Enhancements to our approach to risk management during 2015 included tasked with delivering objectives for their particular asset with functional the following: departments providing support to the assets in delivering their objectives.
the Group Risk Appetite statement was reviewed and updated in light of internal and external changes to the business environment.
A series of risk The executive directors continue to be supported by the SLT as well as by the tolerance levels across a number of categories were identified and agreed MT and ELT.
Further information on the composition of these teams and their with the Board and senior management: and remit can be found earlier in this statement on page 70.
There are also a number the Group Risk Management Procedure was revised and rolled out across of functional department heads whose roles include providing expert input and the Group in Q1 2016 with targeted risk training to key stakeholders.
challenge to the Companys work programmes, budgets and business plans, and supplying the directors with full and accurate information with which to The RMC reports on the Companys risk profile to both the audit committee make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
Additionally, the audit committee and the Board receive internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the key risks.
The The Company refreshes its Business Plan, work programme and budget on an conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2015 is that the internal annual basis in line with its overall strategy.
These documents start at asset level controls in respect of key risks are effective.
before being consolidated at regional and Company levels.
The Business Plan sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated into the Companys strategic planning.
After an iterative process, the annual Business Plan, work programme and associated budget are presented to the Board for approval.
74 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 4.
ASSURANCE The Directors derived assurance from the following internal and external The three lines of defence framework adopted by the Board provides three levels controls during 2015: of assurance against the risks facing the Company: first of all at the operational a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: level: secondly through overview by functional management and the RMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities: an appropriate organisational structure: The integrated internal control and assurance framework document includes control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated representatives: a description of the Companys business and assurance models and of its organisation and committee structure, and defines the relevant roles and specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and other key technical and commercial decisions: responsibilities.
The framework defines the key policies and procedures which govern the way in which Cairn conducts its business and is therefore segregation of duties where appropriate and cost-effective: business and financial reporting, including KPIs: a core part of its system of internal control.
functional management reviews: an annual letters of assurance process, through which asset and functional During 2015, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal financial and nonfinancial controls and their compliance with Company policies, and report any compliance controls, risk management and high-level internal control arrangements through the completion of internal control self-assessment control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in respect of weaknesses identified in the prior year: questionnaires.
The questionnaires, which are tailored to each region or function, are designed to provide an internal assessment of the effectiveness a letter of assurance from the Chief Executive confirming the adequacy of internal controls within the Company in line with its policy, and reporting of key controls for the Groups principal risks.
of any control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in respect of weaknesses identified in the prior year: Additionally, assurance maps for the principal risks were also developed, which outlined the key sources of assurance across the three lines of defence.
The three an annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the audit committee and Board and is driven by risks and key controls: lines of defence model is a method of assessing the different sources of assurance the Group can rely on when analysing key risks and controls.
Assurance is gained reports from the audit committee and RMC: reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its through the application of the business management system which directs the day to day running of the business first line, the oversight functions within Cairn statutory audit: reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: which provide challenge to the risk and control environment second line and any third party reviews the Group instructs to assess the status of a risk control independent third party reviews: and the skills and experience of all employees.
The assurance maps have helped to identify potential areas of control weakness and or the ineffective use of assurance resources across the Group.
This has helped influence the topics included in the 2016 Internal Audit Plan.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Throughout 2015, the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2014, except in the following areas: Provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code Company position Explanation C. 3.1.
In smaller companies the Cairn does not meet the Code definition The Company recognises the Code recommendation that, except in smaller company chairman may be a member of a smaller company and the Companys companies, the Chairman should not be a member of the audit committee.
of, but not chair, the audit committee Chairman was a member of the audit The Board deemed it appropriate in view of his financial expertise that in addition to the independent noncommittee until 30 June 2015.
Ian Tyler should remain on the committee until such time as another executive directors, provided he suitably qualified non-executive director could be appointed.
Following or she was considered independent the appointment of Keith Lough as a member of the committee, Ian Tyler on appointment.
stepped down from the committee on 30 June 2015.
The Company has therefore complied with this provision with effect from that date.
D. 2.1 The board should establish a Until 30 June 2015, the remuneration The Company accepts that Todd Hunt is not independent in terms of his remuneration committee of at least committee was made up of two length of service but, as explained on page 68, the Board is of the view three independent non-executive independent non-executive directors plus that he has remained independent in all other respects.
In addition the company the chairman and Todd Hunt, who, having to further comply with the Code, Mr Hunt stepped down from all of the chairman may also be a member of, served on the Board as non-executive Board committees of which he was a member, including the remuneration but not chair, the committee if he or director for more than nine years cannot committee, on 30 June 2015.
Peter Kallos, an independent non-executive she was considered independent be deemed independent in terms of director was appointed to the remuneration committee on 1 September on appointment as chairman.
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
2015, from which point, the Company fully complied with this provision Mr Hunt retired from the committee of the Code.
Peter Kallos, an independent non-executive director was appointed on 1 September 2015.
IAN TYLER Chairman 14 March 2016 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 75
