Audit Committee report The Audit Committee remained focused on the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, as well as reviewing and assessing the banking and financial arrangements arising from the acquisition of Columbus International Inc.
Audit Committee membership Ian Tyler The Committee is comprised solely of independent Non-executive Audit Committee Chairman Directors.
Members Audit Committee meetings attended Ian Tyler Chairman 4 4 Simon Ball 4 4 Mark Hamlin 4 4 Alison Platt 4 4 1 Barbara Thoralfsson 0 1 I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The key elements of focus of the Audit 1 Barbara Thoralfsson joined the Board on 7 January 2015.
Barbara was unable to attend the scheduled March 2015 Audit Committee meeting due to a prior Committee the Committee include financial reporting, internal engagement which she had before joining the Company.
control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk and that these remain effective.
The Committee The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the devotes significant time to each of these elements.
The Committees Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, along with agenda for the year ended 31 March 2015 has included the usual a broad commercial knowledge and is confident that the collective review of our financial results and controls, our business operations experience of the members enables them to act as an effective Audit and the management of risk.
The Committee is also satisfied that it has the expertise One of the core requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and resource to fulfil its responsibilities effectively including those 2012 the Code is for the Annual Report and Accounts to provide a relating to risk and control.
fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
In line with the responsibility of the Committee Meetings pursuant to the Code, the Committee has also assisted the Board in The Committee held 4 scheduled meetings during the year ended confirming that this requirement has been met and that the Annual 31 March 2015, which were held at key times within our reporting Report and Accounts provides the information necessary for and audit calendar.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, and strategy.
Head of Internal Audit and representatives from KPMG LLP KPMG, During the year, Perley McBride was appointed as the new Chief the Companys external auditor, are invited to attend all Committee Financial Officer.
The Committee is pleased to report that there was meetings.
In May and November when the full year and half year a smooth transition between the departure of Tim Pennington, and results are considered, the Chairman is also invited to attend.
60 Cable & Wireless Communications The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee Chairman in meetings of the Committee investigate the key accounting, audit and conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller risk issues that are relevant to the Group.
The mixture and experience and the external auditor.
Each scheduled meeting includes a private of its members assists in providing a challenging environment in which session, attended only by Committee members, the external auditor these issues are debated.
The table below details the key matters and Head of Internal Audit, to provide an opportunity for open on the agenda throughout the year.
In addition to these matters, dialogue and feedback from the Committee and auditors without the Committee has also reviewed and considered aspects of the management present.
At each meeting the Committee then receives acquisition of Columbus, especially in respect of the financing and reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor and the debt arrangements.
Head of Internal Audit, together with biannual litigation reports.
The Financial Reporting Internal control and compliance External Auditors Governance and other matters May Full year results Litigation Report External Auditor Compliance with UK Corporate Annual Report Going concern review independence Governance Code Preliminary Results Internal Control Full year external audit Review of professional fees Announcement Framework Review report Disclosure Committee Review September External Auditor Plan Accounting Policy Review External Auditor Evaluation Audit Tendering November Interim Results Litigation Report Half Year External Audit Acquisition update and Announcement Going concern review Report financing Internal Audit and Risk Treasury Review Update Tax Risk Review March Insurance Update Audit strategy including Acquisition update, including Risk Management impact of the acquisition financing arrangements and Framework Review of Columbus impact on year end Internal Audit Evaluation Terms of Reference Review Internal Audit Plan Non-Audit Fees Policy Review Role of the Committee To monitor resources of the financing team to help ensure they The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for are adequate overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in of reference during the period and the full terms of reference are relation to the appointment of the Companys external auditor.
Committee meetings take place prior to Board meetings and the Committee Chairman reports to the Board, as a separate agenda item, Main activities of the Committee during the year on the activities of the Committee and matters of particular relevance Financial reporting for approval by the Board.
The Committee reviewed the half year and full year financial statements The Terms of Reference set out the authority of the Committee to with management and the external auditor with particular focus on: carry out its duties.
The appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and The principal duties of the Committee include: practices To monitor the integrity of the financial statements and Compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial announcements relating to financial performance, and review and governance reporting requirements significant judgements contained in them Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or To review and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls, internal there has been discussion with the external auditor audit and risk management systems The nature and disclosure of exceptional items To review and approve the internal audit programme, ensuring Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, adequate resources and co-ordination with external auditor balanced and understandable and provides the information To monitor the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, the statutory audit of the Annual Report and Accounts business model and strategy To review and monitor independence and performance of the Any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial external auditor, recommend its appointment, reappointment and reporting removal to the Board as appropriate and develop policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services Annual Report 2014 15 61 Audit Committee report continued The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 are set out in the following table, together with an explanation as to how the Committee addressed each issue: Significant issues How the Committee addressed these issues Acquisition Accounting see accounting policy 5.1.
3, critical accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.
7 and note 3.11 On 31 March 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of Management worked with external valuation consultants to assist Columbus for an initial consideration of US$2,121 million with the methodology for the consideration transferred in relation including the fair value of the put options see Note 3.11.
There to shares and put options.
were also a number of smaller acquisitions completed during The methodology and judgements were discussed with the theyear.
Committee in relation to the valuation of the share consideration Judgement is required in assessing the consideration transferred transferred and the put options that were fair valued as part of including the methodology used for valuing the shares and put theacquisition.
options as part of the acquisition.
There was also significant In relation to the preliminary fair value adjustments identified by judgement in valuing the identifiable Property, Plant and the external valuation consultants for intangible assets and PPE, Equipment PPE and intangible assets and acquired assets.
key assumptions included discount rates, growth projections and Given the close proximity to year end of the acquisition of Columbus, plans for the acquisition were debated with the Committee.
the acquisition accounting is preliminary and will be updated Following consideration and after receiving satisfactory responses during the 12 month period of FY 2015 16 to allow finalisation to the questions raised by Committee members, the Committee ofthe acquisition accounting valuation and analysis exercise.
agreed with managements initial acquisition accounting.
Impairment of goodwill, PPE, intangibles and assets held for sale see accounting policy 5.1.
5, critical accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.
1 and note 3.4 The Group has recognised a number of impairment charges in The Committee considered the carrying value of all the Groups respect of Property, Plant and Equipment PPE, primarily in the non-current assets.
Whilst it was clear that there was significant Caribbean region, in current and previous years.
Assessment of headroom in the valuations of goodwill, attention was focused the carrying value, which necessitates making projections of onCaribbean PPE and the carrying value of the Groups equity future cash flows, is subjective and requires significant judgement.
investment in Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago TSTT.
The impairment recognised in the current year relates to technology advancements in the Caribbean from upgrades Management discussed with the Committee the impact of the undertaken as part of Project Marlin and from the acquisition of acquisition of Columbus on the overlapping markets within the Columbus where certain infrastructure and networks in the Caribbean.
Key assumptions for this analysis include discount overlapping markets are redundant.
rates and plans for the businesses.
The Committee was presented with analysis of valuations performed by management on the impairment and discussed the findings with management.
In relation to TSTT, there was a reclassification for investment inassociate to equity investment during the year due to the conditions attaching to the regulatory approval obtained from  Authority of Trinidad and Tobago for the acquisition of Columbus which requires the Group to divest of its interest in TSTT.
The Committee was presented with an analysis of valuations performed by management in respect of the Groups investment in TSTT.
Key assumptions, including discount rates, the impending divesture process, EBITDA multiples and recent market transactions were debated.
The report of the external auditor also provided analysis including the sensitivity of headroom calculations to changes in key assumptions.
Following consideration and after receiving satisfactory responses to the questions raised by Committee members, the Committee agreed with managements proposal that an impairment charge was necessary for Caribbean PPE but no impairment charge was necessary in relation to TSTT.
62 Cable & Wireless Communications Significant issues How the Committee addressed these issues Valuation of trade receivables and accrued income see accounting policy 5.1.
4, critical accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.
3 and note 3.1 At US$330 million, trade receivables represent a significant asset.
At each meeting, the Committee receives detailed reports Accrued income, at US$84 million, represents contractual revenue frommanagement analysing the ageing trends across different recognised in advance of billing.
Assessing the recoverability of categories of receivables and accrued income in the business.
these amounts requires a high degree of judgement and analysis.
TheCommittee considered the coverage provided by the provisions proposed by management and the residual balances outstanding at 31 March 2015.
Included in the trade receivables balance was the addition of Columbus receivables.
Having examined the information provided, the Committee discussed with management the recoverability of any unprovided balances, particularly those owed by governments.
As a key focus of the external audit, KPMG also provided the Committee with their analysis and conclusions on recoverability.
Having considered all the information presented, the Committee satisfied themselves as to the recoverability of trade receivables and accrued income recognised in the accounts.
Revenue recognition see accounting policy 5.1.
14, critical accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.
3 and note 2.1 Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue The Group has well developed internal accounting revenue recognition principles.
This includes the allocation of revenue recognition guidance governing the services and products sold between multiple deliverables, such as the sale of a handset or set inour operating units.
These policies comply with IFRS and are top box together with an ongoing service contract in a bundled updated annually, reviewed by the external auditor and approved package or management services contracts that have complex by the Committee.
All operating units are required to comply with contractual arrangements.
these policies and provide periodic sign off on compliance.
The Committee received reports from both management and the external auditor which discuss the accounting treatment applied to revenue contracts.
Following these reviews the Committee was satisfied that the Groups criteria for revenue recognition had been met.
Disclosure Committee the Board in making their statement confirming that the Annual To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for identifying Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and and considering disclosure matters in connection with the preparation understandable.
Additional meetings were scheduled to consider and of all market releases containing material financial and other price review the market announcements which were necessary as a result sensitive information has been delegated to a Disclosure Committee.
of the acquisition of Columbus.
This committee comprises members of senior management from finance, legal, company secretarial, investor relations and Internal control communications.
A review of the Companys system of internal controls and how they are implemented by the regional business units was undertaken.
The During the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee was focused on the need to promote improvement of Disclosure Committee obtains certifications from contributors prior to internal controls and devoted time in each meeting to do this.
In the documents review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
order to discuss progress and action plans in place to improve the The Board receives an update from the Disclosure Committee in effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control environment, advance of each meeting as part of the Company Secretarys Report.
particularly in parts of our Caribbean business, the Committee found The Committee reviews the workings of the Disclosure Committee on it useful to have representatives of Group Executive management, an annual basis.
Meetings of the Disclosure Committee were internal and external auditors, and representative of local scheduled during the year to consider and review the preparation of management teams attend periodically.
the Annual Report and Accounts to enable the Committee to assist Annual Report 2014 15 63 Audit Committee report continued The acquisition of Columbus was completed on the final day of the A survey of Committee members and key colleagues, both financial financial year.
As such, the scope of the Committees evaluation of the and non-financial, involved in the audit system of internal controls of the Group excluded consideration of the Analysis of KPMGs capabilities and independence system of internal controls at Columbus International Inc. Review of the results of independent quality reports on KPMG and Risk management other audit firms A review of the risk management framework process and its Discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit implementation was undertaken.
The Committee received reports on the Groups risk management process, changes to significant risks at To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee an operational and Group level and how these are managed.
reviewed: In addition, the Committee reviewed the status of Group litigation at A report outlining KPMGs response to the annual assessment and the half year and full year and also undertook a review of tax strategy the specific measures planned to ensure a continual improvement in and risk, tax and treasury policies and Group insurance cover.
the external audit The arrangements for ensuring the external auditors independence Internal audit and objectivity Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal Audit, supported by a team of in-house auditors based in the US and Jamaica, and supplemented The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any by a third party to provide specific skills as required.
During the year, variations from the plan the Committee approved the internal audit plan.
The scope, extent The robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in their and effectiveness of the plan was then monitored and reviewed handling of the key accounting and audit judgements throughout the course of the year.
The content of the external auditors reporting on internal control At each meeting, the Committee received an update on internal audit activities, progress against the internal audit plan, the results of any This process allows the Committee to monitor and assess the unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas.
performance of the external auditor and informed the Committees The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the in-house audit recommendation to the Board for the reappointment of KPMG.
team, the co-source arrangements taking into consideration the transformational activity during the year and the change in Head of Auditor independence Internal Audit.
Periodically the Committee Chairman meets separately KPMG was appointed as auditor of the Company during the financial with the Head of Internal Audit, which provides further opportunity to year 2009 10 and also acted as auditor of Cable and Wireless plc from explore internal audit findings.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
Whistle-blowing The Committee has established policies to maintain the independence The Company provides an Ethics Helpline which is administered by an of the external auditor and its personnel and to govern the provision independent third party and is available to all Group employees via a of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor and web-portal or by telephone.
This provides a mechanism for employees its associates.
Permitted and prohibited services are clearly identified to raise concerns where they either do not feel comfortable raising the along with the processes to be followed for the approval of all audit matter with local management or they are not satisfied with the local and non-audit services.
All engagements with an expected fee in management response.
A report on the use of the whistle-blowing excess of US$250,000 require the prior approval of the Committee hotline is provided at each Committee meeting.
Chairman and to be reported to the Committee.
External audit For the year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee approved fees for Audit effectiveness audit services of US$3.5 million, together with fees for audit-related The Committee places great importance on the quality and regulatory reporting of US$0.4 million and non-audit work of US$1.0 effectiveness of the external audit.
Whilst important for any company, million.
The nature of the services provided is set out in note 2.3.
2 to the Committee believes this is of particular concern given the Groups the consolidated financial statements.
There is no limitation of liability geographic spread.
The Committee receives a detailed audit plan at in the terms of appointment of KPMG as auditor to the Company.
the start of each audit cycle which includes the external auditors In line with ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices assessment of key audit risks.
These risks are tracked throughout the Board, the external auditor is required to rotate the audit engagement year and used to test management assumptions in these areas.
partner responsible for the Group audit after a maximum period of five Audit quality is assessed throughout the year by reference to the years.
Accordingly, Peter Meehan rotated off the engagement quality of the reports received by the Committee, the calibre of senior following the conclusion of the 2013 14 audit and after discussions members of the audit team and the level of challenge provided to with the Chairman and other members of the Committee, John management.
Specific importance was placed on the evolution of Edwards succeeded Peter Meehan as the audit engagement partner KPMGs planned audit approach to incorporate the impact of the responsible for the 2014 15 audit.
acquisition of Columbus including acquisition accounting and financing.
In addition, the annual assessment of the performance of the external Audit tendering auditor was undertaken at the September Committee meeting.
During the year, the Committee considered the Groups position on its This comprised: audit services contract with KPMG taking into account the Code, the 64 Cable & Wireless Communications EU Audit Regulations 2014 and the Statutory Audit Service Order 2014 issued by the UK Competition and Markets Authority, and the Guidance for Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council, in the context of tendering the external audit contract at least every ten years.
KPMG has been the auditor of the Group since the demerger from Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc in 2010 and also prior to this.
The Group has not undertaken an audit tender in the last ten years.
During the year the Committee considered the appropriateness of a tender process, and in doing so, consideration was given to: i The significant transformation currently ongoing across the Group from the refocus on a single geography in the Caribbean and Latin America, and the establishment of the new operational hub in Miami, and to come as a result of the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. ii The performance of KPMG and the findings from the annual auditor effectiveness assessment: and iii An audit partner rotation which took place in May 2014 The Committee concluded that a tender during the year ended 31 March 2015 was not in the Groups interest in particular due to the fundamental changes to the business.
The Board has therefore accepted the Committees recommendation that KPMG should be retained for the financial years ended 31 March 2015 through 31 March 2017 to help provide stability with the evolution of the Group.
The Committee will continue to reconsider its position annually in light of the guidance and regulations pursuant to which the Company would be required to rotate its auditor before the AGM in 2021.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors and corporate governance report on pages 48 to 58.
Ian Tyler Chairman, Audit Committee 19 May 2015 Annual Report 2014 15 65
