Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 78 Nomination Committee Members: Committee activities during 2015 Martin Bolland Chair Key responsibilities to identify and nominate appropriate Gillian Sheldon candidates for appointment to the Board, Paul Bowtell having due regard to the provisions of the Andrew Williams Code and, in particular, the balance of John Cresswell from 17 November 2015 skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the diversity of its composition Carolyn Fairbairn retired 27 October 2015 to keep the structure and size of the Martin Bolland Board and the leadership needs of the Chair, Nomination Committee The Company Secretary acts as Secretary organisation under review and ensure that to the Committee and is available to plans are in place for orderly succession assist the members of the Committee as I am pleased to present the report and appointment to the Board required, ensuring that timely and accurate on the activities of the Nomination to review the time commitment information is distributed accordingly.
Committee for the year to 31 December required from Non-Executive Directors, 2015.
I am delighted that Capitas senior the performance of Directors and The Committee met three times in 2015 management succession planning all declarations of interest made by and the attendance is shown on page 77. continues to provide continuity for senior Board members appointments within the Group.
I have to consider the Group diversity position.
The Committee reports and makes been impressed how Nick has embraced recommendations to the Board in relation his new role and has continued to take Activity in 2015 to its activities and deliberations.
the role forward with great leadership, Succession planning for the strategy and planning across the business.
It is authorised under its terms of reference Set out below is a summary of the work All Directors stand for election to obtain the advice of independent search carried out during the year.
or re-election at the AGM, therefore consultants.
The terms of reference for the consideration of the performance of all Nomination Committee can be found on Directors, length of service, their interests the Groups website at www.
com and potential conflicts were considered.
These were reviewed and updated during the year.
Conflicts of interests were considered Board diversity for the independence of the NonIn 2015, 18% of our senior management Executive Directors.
team and 30% of our Board were women.
The time committed by the NonCapita sees significant business benefit Executives was considered and remained in having access to the diversity of appropriate to ensure that each discharged thinking that comes from people with a their duties and responsibilities.
wide range of backgrounds at all levels Appointment of John Cresswell as an in the Company.
Only by encouraging Independent Non-Executive Director.
this diversity and by fostering talent throughout the business can the Company For all of the appointments within expect to achieve further diversity in the year they included consideration of senior management.
Capita has a network the size and structure of the Board and of diversity champions across the Group the balance and range of its Directors and the Companys training and mentoring knowledge and experience.
External initiatives actively support the fostering search agencies and open advertising of talent at all levels in the business across were not used for the non-executive new the Companys diverse workforce.
The non-executive Board and senior management teams appointments were sourced through the across Capita are fully committed to Boards own targeted searches.
continuing to foster talent and support Martin Bolland will continue to review those people from all backgrounds who the opportunities for the Board on an wish to progress.
However, the Company ongoing basis.
will also continue to appoint and promote people on merit and in line with the skills and attributes identified for each post, including those identified by the Nomination Committee for the Board.
Further information is shown on page 59 of the strategic report.
