Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 64 Corporate governance statement Director and latterly seven as Chairman, The aggregate value of new and extended I have indicated to the Board that I intend major contracts secured in 2015 was to stand down by 31 December 2016, or 1.8bn 2014: 1.7bn and our win rate on the earlier appointment of a successor.
remained strong at around 2 in 3 by value.
The Board are commencing a search We have also made a solid start to 2016, process using external head hunters to securing contracts with an aggregate identify and appoint a successor and this value of 251m in the year to date.
The is being led by Gillian Sheldon, Senior bid pipeline currently stands at 4.7bn Independent Director.
February 2015: 5.1bn, comprised of 37 bids with a weighted average contract Martin Bolland Results for 2015 length of 6 years, and we continue to have Non-Executive Chairman Capita delivered good financial results for a large active prospect list of opportunities the full year in 2015, including 4% organic behind the pipeline, a number of which are revenue growth, an improvement in our expected to enter the pipeline shortly.
operating margin and high level of cash generation.
Our largest ever acquisition, Capita invested 402m, excluding deferred avocis, has provided a strong growth and contingent consideration, in acquiring Chairmans report platform in Europe.
In the year, we have 17 businesses and in our Fera Science I am pleased to present this report on moved the business away from certain public sector subsidiary partnership in the work of the Capita Board during 2015, non-core lower growth businesses and 2015.
We also exited a number of small formed of this section pages 64 to 71 and reviewed our delivery platforms to better businesses which either lacked strategic the section headed Other Statutory and position the Group for the future.
fit or had limited growth potential.
We Regulatory Information pages 72 to 75. have three further businesses for sale, of The Group increased underlying revenue which one disposal completed in January 1 2 During 2015, the Boards continued by 7% to 4,674m 2014: 4,372m 2016.
Acquired in February 2015, avocis, 3 commitment to the highest standard and underlying revenue on a like for like provides a strong platform in Europe and of corporate governance and how this basis by 11.8%, comprised 4.3% organic we are now realising significant growth is managed across the business has growth and 7.5% from acquisitions.
opportunities in this new region.
allowed us to uphold the highest standards Organic growth was driven by the full of business practice in our sector.
benefit from contract gains, new contracts In the financial statements a number started in the second half of 2015 and of non-underlying items have been Of course, governance must work within good underlying performances from our presented, as follows: the structure of a whole organisation, Asset Services and Digital & Software without being overly cumbersome.
Business exits I believe the balance struck across Capita is We exited a number of non-core and low 4 greatly assisted by the transparent culture Underlying operating profit rose by growth businesses, including the disposal of 1 2 in place throughout the business.
11% to 639.0m 2014: 576.3m and National Dental Plan in 2015 and a health 4 underlying profit before tax increased by business since the year-end, and we are in 1 2 In 2015, we welcomed Nick Greatorex 9% to 585.5m 2014: 535.7m.
There an active process to sell a further specialist to the Board as Group Finance Director were strong performances from our Asset insurance business and a justice business.
following the retirement of Gordon Hurst, Services, Digital & Software Solutions, These businesses in aggregate generated and John Cresswell as a Non-Executive Local Government, Health & Property and revenue of 162.6m and a trading loss of Director following the retirement of Carolyn IT Enterprise Services divisions, the latter 1.2m in 2015.
As detailed last year, Andrew supported by acquisitions.
Profits declined in relation to these business exits include Williams joined the Board on 1 January in the Insurance & Benefits Services a 110.1m impairment of goodwill and 2015 as a Non-Executive Director.
division, as a result of the contract price other assets, a 26.8m provision in step downs, and the Integrated Services relation to disposal and closure costs The latter part of 2015 was focused on division, due to the residual impact of the and 26.3m loss on disposal.
The net our ultimately unsuccessful potential Disclosure and Barring Service contract cash outflow from these business exits acquisition of Xchanging plc.
The Board and delivery of Department for Work and was 0.8m, as detailed in note 4 to the were very pleased with the work and Pensions Personal Independence Payments financial statements.
financial discipline of the acquisition PIP assessments.
team and we continue to assess many 4 acquisition opportunities.
As evidenced Underlying earnings per share rose by 9% 1 2 by our decision not to revise our cash to 70.7p 2014: 65.15p and we increased offer of 160p for each share in Xchanging, our dividend for the full year by 9% to we remain a disciplined buyer.
nearly nine years as Non-Executive 1 2 015 numbers exclude businesses exited and held for sale as detailed in note 4 on page 117.
2 2 014 numbers exclude the sale of our Occupational Health business.
3 E xcluding businesses exited and held for sale from both 2015 and 2014.
4 E xcludes non-underlying items detailed in note 2 on page 110.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 65 Corporate governance statement continued Other non-underlying charges other Operations Strategy largely non cash non-underlying charges Executive Directors present a report A specific session to review the Groups were 309.0m 2014: 218.4m, including and comment on performance of their strategy in detail is held each year.
the annual amortisation charge relating to respective areas at each Board meeting.
Strategy items are also discussed at each the Groups intangible assets of 165.0m This includes the key issues, including risk Board meeting.
The diverse nature of the 2014: 147.1m, an impairment of assets and opportunity, operational and financial business means that we must continue in our life and pensions division of 76.7m, performance, bid and acquisition activity.
to be adaptable to the opportunities and as a result of changes in legislation in the This allows the Executive Directors to challenges that face us, our clients and our life and pensions marketplace in the year focus on specific issues and also for the stakeholders.
Risk is considered side-byas detailed in note 13 to the financial other Directors to debate and challenge side with strategy and is included in our statements, a 28.3m impairment as required.
of goodwill in relation to the Groups insurance business and a further 17.2m Governance Financial and corporate reporting provision in relation to settlements in our Capita is committed to maintain high The Board considers the Groups statutory Asset Services division as detailed in note standards of corporate governance, which reports and the broader aspects of 25 to the financial statements.
is a standing item at all Board meetings.
corporate reporting at each scheduled The management and governance meeting.
Regular updates are received on See pages 14-17 for more information.
structure in the Effective controls and risk the financial results from Andy Parker and management section outlines how the Nick Greatorex, which also include the Board activities in 2015 Board monitors the ongoing achievement financial outlook for the Group.
The Board has a standing schedule to of the Groups goal and strategy.
meet nine times a year and holds further meetings as required, operating with Risk an open culture in line with the Groups Each year, the Board reviews the Groups own values and behaviours.
We adopt risk categories and corresponding appetite a structured approach when setting thresholds.
From these risk categories, Board and committee meetings, which they identify any which are classified as are aligned with the financial calendar corporate risks: recognised as principal of our Company.
We set an agenda to risks that can have a detrimental effect cover the wide range of matters that are on profitable growth, profit level or brought to our attention, ensuring each is share price of Capita.
These corporate given appropriate time and focus.
Several risk categories are tracked by the Board further ad hoc meetings were held in throughout the year.
2015 to discuss the potential acquisition of Xchanging, the process to be followed, the strategic impact on the business and the subsequent lapse of the offer.
Major bids, acquisitions and disposals Maggi Bell, Group Business Development Director, presents a report at each Board meeting which covers the current major bid strategy, constituents of the bid pipeline bids over 25m in value where we are short-listed to four or fewer and prospects which are sitting just outside of the bid pipeline.
As many of these potential contracts are of significant size Approximate allocation and duration, these opportunities can make a consequential impact on the shape of agenda time in 2015 and resource requirements of the Group as it grows.
1 The Chief Executive reports on the 6 1.
Major bids, acquisitions and disposals 30% acquisition strategy and current acquisition activity in addition to his Chief Executive 2.
Governance 5% of Xchanging in 2015, a larger proportion 5 4.
Risk 15% of Board time was focused on acquisitions 5.
Strategy 15% 2 than in previous years.
Financial and corporate reporting 15% See pages 26-31 for more information.
4 3 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 66 Corporate governance statement continued Board evaluation in 2015 The evaluation report analysed the A number of key strengths and Board evaluation is undertaken annually, responses, drew on the above comments improvements were identified including with external evaluation every three years.
and was presented to the Company improvements to financial reporting in During 2015 a full external evaluation of Secretary and myself by the provider.
the year and improvements to the risk the Board was undertaken by Corinna The report continued the theme from management processes.
Gillies from the independent consultancy our previous evaluations and recognised Board processes, Board style and Illuminating Leaders.
the strong governance process within the breadth and the depth of Directors Board and the strength of the dynamics experience were also noted as strengths.
As in previous years the evaluation was that exist between strategic challenge and Key opportunities identified included questionnaire based and covered the strategic focus amongst Executive and the need to develop risk analysis Board, governance review and Audit Non-Executive Directors.
further and extending talent review and Risk Committee.
The topics covered and succession planning.
within the evaluation included risk, The questionnaire results have been Board strategy, governance and training.
very positive with improvements made As part of our Board evaluation processes, a The questions were discussed with the in several areas from last year.
No areas meeting was held with the Non-Executive Senior Independent Director and the have a lower score than last year.
The Directors and the Senior Independent questionnaire agreed with the external final report was presented, without Director to discuss my own performance.
The participants included all amendment, to the Board in November The views of the Executive Directors Board members and comments and 2015.
A small number of minor follow-up were taken into consideration by the observations from regular attendees at matters were identified and are being Non-Executive Directors as part of the the Audit and Risk Committee such as implemented.
The results of the report evaluation.
I was not present at either the Group Financial Controller, Group Risk are summarised below.
A meeting of the Non-Executive Compliance Director, Group Internal Audit Directors without Executive Directors was Director and the external Auditors were In terms of progress against actions agreed also held.
I met with all members of the also factored into the final analysis.
from last year, a shorter process for small Board individually and regularly during acquisitions for Non-Executives has been the year to receive feedback and discuss introduced and has been effective and current and long-term opportunities.
a new Board review process for major contracts has commenced.
Consideration of the Board balance is kept under review by the Chief Executive and myself.
Board evaluation process Compilation Evaluation Analysis Outcomes 2016 actions Illuminating Leaders Completed by all Overall, very positive.
Key opportunities areas Report analysing selected as independent Board members Improvements in several identified by four or responses and consultancy to devise areas from 2014.
No more Directors comments sent to Included comments and conduct survey areas have a lower score Chairman and Company and observations from Develop risk than the previous year Secretary for review Questions discussed regular non-Board topics further with Senior attendees at the Audit Progress against actions Final report presented, Extend topic of talent Independent Director and Risk Committee from 2014, including a without amendment, and succession planning shorter process for small to the Board in Questionnaire agreed acquisitions for nonNovember 2015 with Chairman and executives: new process Company Secretary The Chairman meets for major contracts with all members of the Topics included Board individually and risk, Board strategy, regularly during the year governance and training to receive feedback and discuss current and longterm opportunities Consideration of the Board balance is kept under regular review by the Chairman and Chief Executive Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 67 Corporate governance statement continued Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit Capita plc Chairman Chief Group Risk & Audit and Risk Group Executive Information Compliance Committee Internal Audit Board Directors Officer Director Chairman Director Internal audit programme & risk Audit and Risk and compliance Direct report Committee management Independent report activities Meet at least monthly Meet at least quarterly Group Finance Director Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit Both the Group Risk & Compliance Directors On pages 48 to 54 of the strategic report Director and the Group Internal Audit The Directors of the Company currently we have described fully the roles of Risk & Director report to the Group Finance in office are listed on pages 62 and 63.
Compliance and Internal Audit together Director and independently to the Audit with the risks and internal controls for and Risk Committee.
Both report on All the Board will stand for re-election the Group.
the internal audit programme and risk John Cresswell for election at the and compliance management activities forthcoming AGM.
All of the Board have In order for the Board to ensure that across the Group.
They have access to all received a formal performance evaluation, the strategic direction and growth of the members of the Board and hold regular as described, which demonstrated that Group can continue successfully and with meetings with the Executive Directors and each Director continues to be effective the appropriate risk oversight, a number meet with the Audit and Risk Committee and committed to the role.
of meetings are held throughout the Chairman and myself at least quarterly.
These include individual meetings In 2016 further focus will be given to The following pages in this section between the Group Risk & Compliance cyber risk and other IT risks with extended consist of our corporate governance and Director and the Group Internal Audit reporting for this area to be designed remuneration reports.
I hope that you will Director with the Chairman of the Audit and then presented within the Risk find these and the entire annual report and Risk Committee, as well as normal and Compliance reporting by the Chief and accounts informative.
Risks are identified Information Officer.
will be happy to receive any feedback and categorised in a number of ways and you may have.
are prioritised and delegated in accordance with the risk ratings provided to the Martin Bolland risk owner.
Non-Executive Chairman 24 February 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 68 Corporate governance statement continued However, in accordance with the Codes Rather than just the Chief Executive and Compliance with the Financial B.
1 Supporting Principles, the Board Finance Director that many companies Reporting Councils UK Corporate needs to be appropriate in size and have, the Board have decided that Governance Code experience to manage the complexities it it is appropriate for it to have five Capita plc and its subsidiaries the Group faces.
We believe that the number of our executives on the Board.
The presence remain committed to maintaining high Board Directors and their range of skills and membership on the Board of the standards of corporate governance.
are appropriate for the scale and scope Group Business Development Director, The UK Corporate Governance Code of the business and to ensure effective Maggi Bell, and the Joint Chief Operating 2014 the Code applies to accounting Board processes.
The Board has the broad Officers, Vic Gysin and Dawn Marriottperiods beginning on or after 1 October range of experience that is essential to Sims, means that the Board is able to 2014.
A copy of the Code is available ensure effective execution of strategy and receive more detailed reports on proposed from the Financial Reporting Councils management of risk, whilst also ensuring new contracts and major operational website www.
Throughout the that the balance of skills is appropriate matters from formal Board members accounting period to which this report for the committees.
Our Executives and discuss them directly with the relates, the Company complied with all recognise all of their responsibilities and responsible Directors.
relevant provisions set out in sections A do not solely represent the activities to E of the Codes except as detailed below: they have within the Group which adds Additionally the Board is also keen that to open and constructive debate, as well the Board remains an effective, detailed Code provision as demonstrating the overall strength of discussion, review and challenge forum B.
1.2 Composition of the Board the Board.
and does not want the Board to become a high level formulaic approval forum.
As Area of non-compliance In this context, given the diversity of the a result we have the objective to maintain During the period the Board had an Groups activities, the Board considers the Board as small as is reasonable imbalance of Executive Directors to it essential to have the five Executive and effective.
Directors on the Group Board rather The balance was five Executive Directors than the lower number that many boards Our Board has five strong independent and four Independent Non-Executive have.
The Board also believe that the Non-Executive Directors, including the Directors and a Non-Executive Chairman.
Board should not be too large in order to Chairman, to provide robust challenge ensure effective discussion and challenge: and independent review.
This is a large Position at 31 December 2015 and considers that the number of Nongroup and provides a sufficiently powerful As noted above, the balance of Executive Directors, at five, provides a well group to provide collective or individual independent Non-Executives to Executives balanced Board overall.
The Board feels is not equal and we remain non-compliant that a Non-Executive group of five with the Code.
Capita is a diverse Group with a wide range including the Chairman is large enough of activities, businesses and contracts.
Overall Given this, the view of the Board is that the Board composition is specifically it is important to have strong executive designed to ensure it remains an effective membership of the Board.
forum for appropriately detailed debate and challenge.
This area of non-compliance is expected to remain throughout 2016, but the Board is confident that the size and make-up of the Board is highly effective and appropriate.
Board changes in the year Name Date Position Andrew Williams 1 January 2015 Appointed Non-Executive Director Gordon Hurst 28 February 2015 Retired as Group Finance Director Nick Greatorex 1 March 2015 Appointed Group Finance Director Carolyn Fairbairn 27 October 2015 Retired as Non-Executive Director John Cresswell 17 November 2015 Appointed Non-Executive Director Further information on the changes to the Board is set out in the Nomination Committee report on page 78.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 69 Corporate governance statement continued Board composition Role of the Board In addition to their statutory duties, Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors the Directors must ensure that the Board 1 1 January 2015 Andy Parker Martin Bolland focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
2 28 February 2015 Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon 2 Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell The Board determines the strategic objectives 2 Vic Gysin Carolyn Fairbairn and policies of the Group to best support the 2 Dawn Marriott-Sims Andrew Williams delivery of long-term value, providing overall 1 1 March 2015 Andy Parker Martin Bolland strategic direction within an appropriate 2 27 October 2015 Nick Greatorex Gillian Sheldon framework of rewards, incentives and 2 Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell controls.
The Board is collectively responsible 2 Vic Gysin Carolyn Fairbairn for the success of the Company: the 2 Dawn Marriott-Sims Andrew Williams Executive Directors are directly responsible 1 28 October 2015 Andy Parker Martin Bolland for running the business operations and the 2 16 November 2015 Nick Greatorex Gillian Sheldon Non-Executive Directors are responsible for 2 Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell bringing independent judgement and scrutiny 2 Vic Gysin Andrew Williams to decisions taken by the Board.
The NonDawn Marriott-Sims Executive Directors must satisfy themselves 1 on the integrity of financial information 17 November 2015 Andy Parker Martin Bolland 2 and that financial controls and systems 31 December 2015 Nick Greatorex Gillian Sheldon 2 of risk management are robust.
Following Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell 2 presentations by executive and divisional Vic Gysin Andrew Williams 2 management and a disciplined process of Dawn Marriott-Sims John Cresswell review and challenge by the Board, clear 1 Independent on appointment in accordance with the Code.
decisions on policy or strategy are adopted, 2 Independent in accordance with the Code.
and the executive management are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
Frequency of meetings and attendance Any Directors absence from Board During 2015, the Board met nine times, meetings was previously agreed with excluding ad hoc meetings, solely to deal the Chairman of the Board or the with procedural matters.
Role of the Board Directors is recorded in the the Board table below: During 2015, the following formal Director meetings took place: The Chairman held one to one review The Companies Act 2006 requires Board meetings sessions with each Executive Director and Directors to act in a way they Scheduled meetings 9 each Non-Executive Director.
consider, in good faith, would be Martin Bolland 9 most likely to promote the success The Non-Executive Directors met Andy Parker 9 of the Company for the benefit of without Executive Directors.
In doing Nick Greatorex 7 The Non-Executive Directors met with so, the Directors must have regard Maggi Bell 8 just the Chief Executive.
amongst other matters to: Vic Gysin 9 The Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman, led by the Senior Dawn Marriott-Sims 9 Independent Director.
Gillian Sheldon 9 The likely consequences of any decision in the long term.
Paul Bowtell 9 Board leadership 1 Andrew Williams 9 Consistent with previous years, the Board The interests of the 1 continues to support the need to segregate John Cresswell 1 Companys employees.
the responsibility for operating the Board 1 Carolyn Fairbairn 7 and managing the underlying business.
The need to foster business 1 Gordon Hurst 2 Martin Bollands role as Non-Executive relationships with suppliers, Chairman and the role of Andy Parker as customers and others.
1 N ick Greatorex was appointed on 1 March 2015, Andrew Williams was appointed on 1 January 2015 Chief Executive are separate.
and John Cresswell was appointed on 17 November The impact of the Companys 2015, Gordon Hurst and Carolyn Fairbairn retired from operations on the community Martin Bolland as Non-Executive the Board in February and October 2015 respectively.
Chairman and Gillian Sheldon as Senior Independent Director also held meetings Due to the nature of the acquisition and The desirability of the Company solely comprising the Non-Executive bid strategy, consideration of meeting maintaining a reputation for high Directors during 2015.
Both Martin and times has to include flexibility to hold standards of business conduct.
Gillian are also available to meet with meetings outside of this timetable and shareholders when requested.
meetings of this nature tend to be held The need to act fairly towards all by telephone.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 70 Corporate governance statement continued Board independence Company Secretary Matters reserved Non-Executive Directors are required to be All Board members have access to independent in character and judgement.
independent advice on any matters for the Board All relationships that may materially relating to their responsibilities as interfere with this judgement are disclosed Directors and as members of the A formal schedule of matters as required under the conflicts of interest various committees of the Board reserved by the Board has been policy.
The Board has determined that at the Groups expense.
adopted and these include, but all the Non-Executive Directors who are not limited to: served during the year were independent Francesca Todd as Company Secretary is and before and upon appointment as available to all Directors and is responsible Chairman, Martin Bolland met the criteria for ensuring that all Board procedures are of independence as outlined in the Code.
Strategy and management, complied with.
including responsibility for The Board does not believe that a Nonthe overall leadership of The Company Secretary has direct access Executives tenure materially interferes the Company, setting the and responsibility to the Chairs of the with their ability to act in the best Companys values and standards standing committees and open access to interests of the Group.
The Board also and overview of the Groups all the Directors.
The Company Secretary believes that each of the Non-Executives operational management.
has been appointed as Secretary to has retained independence of character the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and and judgement and has not formed Structure and capital including Nomination Committees to ensure that associations with management or others changes relating to the Groups there are no conflicts of interest.
The that may compromise their ability to capital structure and major Company Secretary meets regularly exercise independent judgement or act changes to the Groups corporate with the Chairman, the Chairman of the in the best interests of the Group.
structure including acquisitions Audit and Risk Committee and the Chair and disposals and changes to of the Remuneration Committee, and The Board is satisfied that no conflict of the Groups management and briefs them on areas of governance and interest exists for any Director.
Financial reporting including Dialogue with shareholders Board Directors inductions and training the approval of the half-yearly The Board encourages and seeks to build Following appointment to the Board, all report, interim management a mutual understanding of objectives new Directors receive an induction tailored statements and preliminary between the Group and its shareholders.
They are announcement for the final As part of this process the Executive encouraged to meet and be briefed on the results.
Also the approval of the Directors make regular presentations and roles of key people across the Group and dividend policy, the setting and meet with institutional shareholders to have open access to all business areas and approval of treasury policies and discuss the Groups business model and employees to build up an appropriate level establishing and maintaining growth strategy, address any issues of of knowledge of the business that extends accounting policies.
concern, obtain feedback and consider beyond formal papers and presentations corporate governance issues.
All Directors have received Internal controls, ensuring welcomed the revised UK Stewardship an appropriate induction for their roles that the Group manages risk Code 2012 and the steps it made to within Capita.
These have included effectively and approves all improve engagement and purposeful familiarisation with: acquisitions, disposals of assets dialogue between companies and and share acquisitions.
All shareholders are encouraged terms of reference for all committees to attend the Annual General Meeting and and matters reserved for the Board Contracts, including approval information for shareholders is available on overviews of the business via Monthly of all major capital projects and the Companys website www.
Operating Board MOB review reports major investments including the All Non-Executive Directors are available the Group approach to acquisition of disposal of interest to meet with shareholders to understand risk management.
of more than 3% in the voting their views more fully.
The Chairman is shares of any company or the available to the significant shareholders On the announcement of the appointment making of any takeover offer.
of John Cresswell to the Board, John received training and induction sessions Ensuring satisfactory The Corporate Communications team with the Chairman, Executive Directors, communication has effective day-to-day responsibility for the Company Secretary, the Group Risk with shareholders.
managing shareholder communications & Compliance Director and the Group and always acts in close consultation Internal Audit Director.
Any changes to the structure, with the Board.
A Disclosure Committee size and composition of consisting of the Corporate Communications Ongoing training and briefings are also the Board.
Director, Chief Executive and Group given to all Directors, including external Finance Director ensures all appropriate courses as required.
communications are made to the London Stock Exchange and shareholders.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 71 Corporate governance statement continued Shareholders can also access up-to-date Directors, including the Chair of the Strategic report information through the Groups website various committees, are present at the The Company is required to prepare a fair at www.
A telephone helpline, Annual General Meeting to answer review of the business of the Group during 0871 664 0300, provides a contact point any questions.
The Board particularly the financial year ended 31 December 2015 directly to the Groups registrars.
encourages communication and and of the position of the Group at the end participation with private investors of the financial year and a description of In 2015, the Corporate Communications at the Annual General Meeting.
the principal risks and uncertainties facing team and the Board maintained active, the Group known as a strategic report.
targeted communications with existing Remuneration Committee The purpose of the strategic report is to and potential shareholders and the wider Details of the Remuneration Committee enable shareholders to assess how the investment community.
The team focused and its activities are given in the Directors Directors have performed their duty on creating opportunities for Capitas CEO remuneration report on pages 88 to 104. under section 172 of the Companies Act to further build his relationships with the 2006 duty to promote the success of the investment community.
It also heightened Risk management and internal control Company.
The information that fulfils the efforts to target long-term underweight The Board monitors the Companys risk requirements of the strategic report can shareholders and non-holders to increase management and internal control systems be found in pages 1 to 60.
Details of the appetite in holding the stock.
Capitas and annually carries out a review of their Groups business goals, strategy and model share register includes a balanced set of effectiveness.
This is reported within the are on pages 6 and 7.
The information that long-term shareholders from the UK and Audit and Risk Committee report.
The fulfils the requirements of the corporate overseas with substantial shareholdings.
monitoring and review includes all material governance report can be found in pages controls, including financial, operational 64 to 71.
All members of the Board, including and compliance controls.
This process the Non-Executive Directors, receive a is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The report on any significant discussions with Groups key internal control procedures shareholders and feedback that follows are fully documented within the strategic the annual and half-yearly presentations report on pages 48 to 54. to investment analysts and shareholders.
All analyst reports concerning Capita are circulated to the Directors.
Case study: Board Directors induction and training Andrew Williams Non-Executive Director January 2015 February 2015 March 2015 Provided with Training in Training from terms of reference governance and Group Risk & for all committees stakeholder Compliance relationships Director Provided with terms of reference Attended Monthly Internal and for matters Operating Board external training reserved for MOB review plus additional the Board and provided briefings provided with reports as required Training from Company Secretary Access to Divisional Executive Board Directors Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 72 Corporate governance statement continued No person, other than a Director retiring Profits and dividends Other statutory and at the meeting, shall be appointed or The Groups reported profit before regulatory information re-appointed a Director of the Company taxation amounted to 112.1m Corporate governance report at any general meeting unless he she is 2014: 292.4m.
The Directors The corporate governance statement as recommended by the Directors.
recommend a final dividend of 21.2p required by Rule 7.2.
1 of the Financial Conduct share 2014: 19.6p per share to be paid on Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency No person, other than a Director retiring 31 May 2016 to ordinary shareholders on Rules is set out on pages 61 to 104. at a general meeting as set out above, the Register on 22 April 2016.
This gives shall be appointed or re-appointed unless a total dividend for the year of 31.7p per Election to apply FRS101 between seven and 35 days notice, share 2014: 29.2p per share.
Reduced Disclosure Framework executed by a member qualified to vote The parent company continues to on the appointment or re-appointment, The employee benefit trust has waived its apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its has been given to the Company of the right to receive a dividend on the shares individual financial statements and these intention to propose that person for being held within the Trust.
are contained on pages 163 to 176.
In our appointment or re-appointment, together Report and Accounts for 2014 we disclosed with notice executed by that person Conflicts policy that in 2015, the parent company would of his her willingness to be appointed Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors be electing to apply FRS101 Reduced or re-appointed.
are under an obligation to avoid situations Disclosure Framework in response to the in which their interests can or do conflict, change in financial reporting standards Group activities or may possibly conflict, with those of in the United Kingdom and Republic of Capita is a leading UK provider of the Company.
In response to the conflicts Ireland.
FRS101 applies IFRS as adopted by technology enabled customer and business of interest provisions, a comprehensive the European Union with certain disclosure process management solutions and project was undertaken in 2008 to identify exemptions.
No objections were received integrated professional support services and disclose any conflicts of interest from shareholders and the Company has to organisations across the public and that have arisen or may arise across proceeded with FRS 101. private sectors.
Procedures were implemented for markets are: in the public sector central evaluating and managing conflicts that Management report government, local government, education, have been identified in a way that ensures For the purposes of Rule 4.1.
5R 2 and Rule health, justice and emergency services and that decisions are not compromised by 4.1.
8 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys defence, and in the private sector life a conflicted Director.
In addition, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, & pensions, insurance, financial services, Companys Articles of Association give this Directors report and the strategic retail, utilities and telecoms and other the Board the power to authorise matters report on pages 1 to 60 comprise the private sector.
that give rise to actual or potential management report.
The Board reports annually on On behalf of its clients, Capita aims to the Companys procedures for ensuring Events after the balance sheet date improve service quality, reduce costs that the Boards powers of authorisation Subsequent to the balance sheet date, of service delivery and enable clients of conflicts are operated effectively and the Group disposed of 80.1% of the to transform the way that they deliver that the procedures have been followed.
shares in a health business, Capita Medical services to their customers.
The services A policy for ongoing identification and Reporting Limited for a cash consideration that Capita provides are essential to the disclosure of conflicts is in place and is of 1 and 20m deferred consideration.
smooth running and success of its clients kept under regular review.
The remaining 19.9% will be recorded as a operations.
Capita designs, successfully financial asset as the Group does not retain implements and manages tailored service The Board has authorised the conflict any significant influence over the business.
solutions, ranging across administration, of Nick Greatorex being a trustee of information technology, financial, human the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Appointment, re-appointment and resources, property and customer service Scheme, and gave specific guidance on this removal of Directors functions.
Capita maintains leading conflict going forward.
Nick Greatorex did Directors are appointed and may be positions in the majority of its markets not participate in the discussion or vote removed in accordance with the Articles due to its scale and ability to draw on this on the guidance given.
No other conflicts of Association of the Company and the wide base of professional services, detailed of interest declared were material to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. market knowledge and extensive business Board.
All conflicts of interest are reviewed process transformation and change on an annual basis by the Board and are All Directors are subject to election at management skills.
revisited as part of the year-end process the first Annual General Meeting after by the Directors.
None of the Directors their appointment and to re-election A review of the development of the Group of the Company had a material interest at intervals of no more than three years and its business activities during the year in any contract with the Company or its in accordance with the Code and the is contained in the strategic report on subsidiary undertakings, other than their Companys Articles of Association.
Our divisional operations contracts of employment.
However, all Directors will retire and and financial performance are detailed on will offer themselves for re-election pages 39 to 47.
John Cresswell for election at the Annual General Meeting in May 2016, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 73 Corporate governance statement continued Major shareholders The share price at 31 December 2015 was At 31 December 2015, the Company had received notifications that the following were 1,208p.
The highest share price in the year interested in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR : was 1,336p and the lowest was 1,032p.
The Company renewed its authority to re- % of voting rights as at purchase up to 10% of its own issued share Number of 31 December Number of Number of capital at the Annual General Meeting in Shareholder shares 2015 shares direct shares indirect May 2015.
During the year, the Company The Capital Group 29,912,692 4.50 29,912,692 did not purchase any shares 2014: nil.
Companies, Inc. Veritas Asset 41,840,111 6.30 41,840,111 Viability statement Management LLP This statement is detailed in full on page 55.
BlackRock, Inc 36,835,848 5.54 36,835,848 Legal & General 20,071,201 3.02 15,661,424 4,409,777 In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Investment Management 2014 revised Code, the Directors have Marathon Asset 22,489,216 3.38 22,489,216 assessed the viability of the Group over Management LLP the three year period to 31 December Woodford Investment 36,260,693 5.46 36,260,693 2018 taking into account the Groups Management LLP current position and the potential Invesco Asset 53,566,485 8.06 53,566,485 impact of the principal risks set out in Management the strategic report above.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a Baillie Gifford & Co 30,377,481 4.57 30,377,481 reasonable expectation that the Group Limited is and will continue to be viable.
On 18 February 2016, the Company had received notifications that the following were Going concern interested in accordance with the DTRs: The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future % of voting development, performance and position rights as at are set out in the strategic report on Number of 18 February Number of Number of pages 1 to 60.
The financial position of the Shareholder shares 2016 shares direct shares indirect Group, its cash flows, liquidity position The Capital Group 31,203,749 4.70 31,203,749 and borrowing facilities are described Companies, Inc. on pages 14 to 17.
In addition, note 26 Veritas Asset 41,859,611 6.30 41,859,611 to the financial statements on page 139 Management LLP includes the Groups objectives, policies BlackRock, Inc. 37,899,583 5.70 37,899,583 and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, Legal & General 19,869,804 2.99 15,501,176 4,368,628 details of its financial instruments and Investment Management hedging activities, and its exposures to Marathon Asset 22,777,975 3.43 22,777,975 credit risk and liquidity risk.
Management LLP Woodford Investment 36,810,693 5.54 36,810,963 The Group has considerable financial Management LLP resources and available funding options Invesco Asset 53,674,295 8.08 53,674,295 together with long-term contracts with Management a wide range of public and private sector Baillie Gifford & Co 31,306,593 4.71 31,306,593 clients and suppliers.
As a consequence, Limited the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Directors interests During the year ended 31 December Details of Directors interests in the share 2015, options were exercised pursuant capital of the Company are listed on page 101. to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 22,772 new Share capital ordinary shares.
10,000 shares have been At 18 February 2016, 670,120,205 ordinary allotted under these schemes since the shares of 21 15p each have been issued end of the financial year to the date of and are fully paid up and are quoted on this report.
2,215,832 of the issued share the London Stock Exchange.
5,538,986 capital is held within an employee benefit shares are held in treasury and the total trust for the use of satisfying employee voting rights equated to 664,581,219. share options.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 74 Corporate governance statement continued After making enquiries, and having and regular email updates on business The main financial risks, to which the assessed the principal risks and other performance from both Divisional and Group has exposure, are interest rate matters disclosed in relation to the Group Directors.
Capita Connections risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign viability statement on page 55, and in enables employees to find out what is currency risk.
accordance with the FRCs Guidance on happening in the wider Group and to share Risk Management, Internal Control and information within and between business The Group borrows in selected currencies Related Financial and Business Reporting units and employees are encouraged to at fixed and floating rates of interest and 2014, the Directors have a reasonable contribute news, views and feedback.
The makes use of interest rate swaps and expectation that the Company and Group maintains a strong communications currency swaps to generate the desired the Group have adequate resources to network and employees are encouraged, interest profile and to manage its exposure continue in operational existence for through its open door policy, to discuss to interest rate fluctuations.
Accordingly, they with management matters of interest consider it appropriate to adopt the going to the employee and subjects affecting In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims concern basis in preparing the annual day-to-day operations of the Group.
to maintain a balance between continuity financial statements.
There are no material Employees are also encouraged to share of funding and flexibility through the use uncertainties to the Companys ability to their views through our annual employee of multiple sources of funding including continue to do so over a period of at least survey and as outputs Divisions develop bonds, bank loans, loan notes, finance 12 months from the date of approval of action plans to address any improvements leases and overdrafts, over a broad spread the financial statements.
Disabled persons Capita has an established employee share In respect of credit risk, the Group trades It is the Groups policy to give full plan designed to promote employee only with recognised, creditworthy third consideration to suitable applications for share ownership and to give employees parties.
It is the Groups policy that employment of disabled persons and to the opportunity to participate in the all clients who wish to trade on credit ensure that any reasonable adjustments future success of the Group.
In keeping terms are subject to credit verification are made to either the workplace or job with its belief that employees are the procedures.
In addition, receivable content to accommodate a persons Groups most valuable asset, the Group balances are monitored on an ongoing disabilities.
Employees with a disability operates employee recognition schemes basis with the result that the Groups are eligible to participate in career both at Group and divisional level.
exposure to bad debt is not significant.
development opportunities available The Capita People Awards, for example, to all employees and will be supported celebrate the core values that embody the With respect to credit risk arising from to do so.
Opportunities also exist for organisation and recognise employees for the other financial assets of the Group, employees of the Group who become service excellence, teamwork, leadership, such as cash, financial investments and disabled to continue in their employment innovation and improvement, interderivative instruments, the Groups with any reasonable adjustments being divisional collaboration and charitable exposure to credit risk arises from default made or to be retrained for other positions support and community engagement.
The Group manages in the Group.
its operations to avoid any excessive Political donations concentration of counterparty risk and Employee involvement The Group did not make any political the Group takes all reasonable steps to Capita has a real focus on supporting donation or incur any political expenditure seek assurance from the counterparties to talent and development within the during the year 2014: nil.
ensure that they can fulfil their obligations.
Capitas approach to employee development ensures that individuals are Greenhouse gas emissions The Group is not generally exposed to offered continual challenges in their roles, Details of the Groups greenhouse significant foreign currency risk, except supported through learning opportunities gas emissions are set out on page 57 in respect of its overseas operations in and personal development.
The Group of the strategic report.
Europe, India and South Africa, which offers employees a comprehensive range generates exposure to movements in of key business and management skills Financial instruments the euro, Swiss franc, Indian rupee and and personal development programmes The Groups financial instruments South African rand exchange rates.
The through our internal training partners, as primarily comprise bonds, bank loans, Group seeks to mitigate the effect of this well as externally recognised universities finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal exposure by entering forward currency and learning partners.
At the same time purpose of these is to raise funds for the instruments, including non-deliverable our businesses provide business-specific Groups operations.
In addition, various forward contracts, to fix the sterling cost training for all employees relevant to their other financial instruments such as trade of highly probable forecast transactions role.
In addition, the Group supports the creditors and trade debtors arise directly denominated in Indian rupees and South achievement of professional qualifications from its operations.
From time to time, African rand.
Exposures to the euro including a range of National Vocational the Group also enters into derivative and Swiss franc are mitigated through Qualifications and apprenticeships.
transactions, primarily interest rate swaps, the use of foreign exchange derivatives currency swaps and forward exchange or borrowings in those currencies.
Employees receive news of the Group contracts, the purpose of which is to Further details of the Groups financial through: frequent email notices: internal manage interest risk and currency risk, instruments can be found in note 26 to notice board statements: the Group arising from the Groups operations and the consolidated financial statements on employee intranet, Capita Connections, its sources of finance.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 75 Corporate governance statement continued Qualifying third party indemnity Capita has a number of borrowing facilities in respect of the share is accompanied provisions for the benefit of Directors provided by various banks and other by the certificate for the share to which Under the Companies Act 2006, financial institutions.
Capitas bank debt it relates and such other evidence as the companies are under an obligation to contains a change of control provision Directors may reasonably require to show disclose any indemnities which are in under which the banks may require the right of the transferor to make the force in favour of their Directors.
The immediate repayment in full on change transfer.
They may also refuse to register current Articles of Association of the of control.
The bonds issued by Capita any such transfer where it is in favour of Company contains a provision that contain a change of control provision more than four transferees or in respect enables the Company to indemnify which requires the Group to offer to of more than one class of shares.
the Directors of the Company in respect prepay the bonds in full if a change of of certain liabilities and costs that they control event occurs and Capita does not The Directors may refuse to register might incur in the execution of their obtain an investment grade credit rating.
a transfer of a share in uncertificated duties as Directors.
Such provisions have form in any case where the Company is been in force during the year and are in Deeds of Indemnity are in place for entitled to refuse or is exempted from force at the date this report is approved.
the requirement under the Uncertificated Copies of the relevant extract from the Securities Regulations to register Articles of Association are available for There are no other significant contracts the transfer.
inspection at the registered office of the in place that would take effect, alter Company during normal business hours or terminate on a change of control Annual General Meeting on any weekday and will be available at of the Company.
The 2016 Annual General Meeting the venue of the 2016 Annual General AGM of the Company will be held at Meeting from 15 minutes before the Rights and restrictions Deutsche Bank, Winchester House, 1 meeting until it ends.
attaching to shares Great Winchester Street, London EC2N Under the Companys Articles of 2DB, on 10 May 2016.
At the AGM a All Directors have deeds of indemnity.
Association, holders of ordinary shares number of resolutions will be proposed.
These will be available for inspection at are entitled to participate in the receipt The resolutions are set out in the Notice the Annual General Meeting with the of dividends pro rata to their holding.
of Meeting, which is sent to shareholders service contracts.
The Board may propose and pay an interim with the 2015 annual report and dividend and recommend a final dividend, accounts and includes notes explaining Powers of Directors in respect of any accounting period out the business to be transacted and is also The business of the Company shall be of the profits available for distribution available on the Companys website at managed by the Directors who are subject under English law.
A final dividend may be www.
to the provisions of the Companies declared by the shareholders in the general Act 2006, the Articles of Association meeting by ordinary resolution, but no In May 2015, shareholders also granted of the Company and to any directions dividend may be declared in excess of the authority for the Company to purchase up given by special resolution, including amount recommended by the Board.
to 66,370,409 ordinary shares which will the Companys power to repurchase expire at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
At any general meeting a resolution put No shares were purchased during 2015.
A to vote at the meeting shall be decided resolution to renew this authority will be The Companys Articles of Association on a poll.
On a poll, every member who put to shareholders at the 2016 Annual may only be amended by a special is present in person or by proxy shall have General Meeting.
resolution of the Companys shareholders.
one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
In May 2015 shareholders also granted Change of control authority for the Company to issue up All of the Companys share schemes No person holds securities in the Company to 219,022,350 ordinary shares which will contain provisions in relation to a change carrying special rights with regard to expire at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Outstanding options and control of the Company.
The Company 22,772 shares were issued during 2015.
A awards would normally vest and become is not aware of any agreements between resolution to renew this authority will be exercisable on a change of control, subject holders of securities that may result in put to shareholders at the 2016 Annual to the satisfaction of any performance restrictions on the transfer of securities General Meeting.
The Directors consider that each of the Restrictions on transfer of shares resolutions are in the best interests of the The Companys Articles of Association Company and the shareholders as a whole allow Directors to, in their absolute and recommend that shareholders vote in discretion, refuse to register the transfer favour of all of the resolutions.
of a share in certificated form unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly For other general meetings the notice stamped, at the registered office of the given would be 14 working clear days.
Company, or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a recognised person where a certificate has not been issued Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 76 Corporate governance statement continued for the parent company financial Statement of Directors Approval of the annual accounts statements, state whether applicable UK responsibilities in respect of the Responsibility statement of directors in Accounting Standards have been followed, annual report and the financial respect of the annual financial statements subject to any material departures statements We, the Directors of the Company, disclosed and explained in the parent The Directors are responsible for preparing confirm that to the best of our knowledge: company financial statements the annual report and the Group and the financial statements prepared in parent company financial statements prepare the financial statements accordance with the applicable set of in accordance with applicable law on the going concern basis unless it is accounting standards, give a true and fair and regulations.
inappropriate to presume that the Group view of the assets, liabilities, financial and the parent company will continue position and profit or loss of the Company Company law requires the Directors in business.
and the undertakings included in the to prepare Group and parent company consolidation as a whole financial statements for each financial The Directors are responsible for keeping the Directors report, including content year.
Under that law they are required to adequate accounting records that are by reference, includes a fair review of the prepare the Group financial statements sufficient to show and explain the parent development and performance of the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted companys transactions and disclose business and the position of the Issuer by the EU and applicable law and have with reasonable accuracy at any time and the undertakings included in the elected to prepare the parent company the financial position of the parent consolidation taken as a whole, together financial statements in accordance with company and enable them to ensure that with a description of the principal risks and UK Accounting Standards and applicable its financial statements comply with the uncertainties that they face.
law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Companies Act 2006.
They have general Practice including FRS 101 Reduced responsibility for taking such steps as are Directors statement on the Disclosure Framework.
The parent reasonably open to them to safeguard the annual report company has adopted FRS 101 for the assets of the Group and to prevent and The Directors consider the annual report first time in these financial statements.
detect fraud and other irregularities.
taken as whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the Under company law the Directors must Under applicable law and regulations, information necessary for the shareholders not approve the financial statements the Directors are also responsible for to assess the Companys position and unless they are satisfied that they give a preparing a strategic report, Directors performance, business model and strategy.
true and fair view of the state of affairs report, Directors remuneration report of the Group and parent company and and corporate governance statement On behalf of the Board of their profit or loss for that period.
that complies with that law and In preparing each of the Group and those regulations.
Francesca Todd parent company financial statements, Company Secretary the Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for the 24 February 2016 maintenance and integrity of the corporate select suitable accounting policies and and financial information included on then apply them consistently Capita plc the Companys website.
Legislation in make judgements and estimates that Registered in England and Wales No.
the UK governing the preparation and are reasonable and prudent 2081330 dissemination of financial statements may for the Group financial statements, differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Details of the principal risk categories can the EU be found on page 52.
