Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 79 Audit and Risk Committee Members: Tim Brooke is a member of the Audit 1,2 Paul Bowtell Chair and Risk Committee only and is not a 1 Non-Executive Director of Capita plc.
Tim Gillian Sheldon Brooke is an independent non-executive 1 Carolyn Fairbairn until 27 October 2015 chair of Capitas Financial Services Risk 1 Andrew Williams Committee.
Tim Brookes primary role 1 John Cresswell from 17 November 2015 is to provide quarterly feedback to the 3 Committee from the Financial Services Tim Brooke Risk Committee.
He attended four meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee Paul Bowtell The Board has reviewed the performance during 2015.
Chair, Audit and Risk Committee of the Committee and is satisfied that the combined knowledge and Set out below is a summary of the work I am pleased to present the report on the experience of its members is such carried out by the Committee activities of the Audit and Risk Committee that the Committee discharges its Audit and Risk Committee meetings are by for the year to 31 December 2015. responsibilities in an effective, informed invitation and generally attended by: the and challenging manner.
Non-Executive Chairman: Group Finance Director: Group Risk & Compliance The Company Secretary acts as Secretary Director: the Group Internal Audit to the Committee and is available to Director and by representatives of the assist the members of the Committee as external Auditors.
required, ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed accordingly.
The Chairman of the Committee is directly available to and holds regular meetings The Committee met seven times in 2015 with the Group Finance Director, Group and the attendance is shown on page 77.
Risk & Compliance Director, Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the Committee, the Group Internal Audit Director and external Auditors.
The following areas were discussed at the meetings held: Group Risk and Inter-relationship between top-down identified risks and bottom-up Compliance risks identified by the divisional team structure and capability Cyber risk Information and data security Business continuity Disaster recovery Group Internal Strategy for Group Internal Audit Audit Team structure Use of co-sourcing expertise and the choice of partners External review of the Group Internal Audit function Compliance with the control framework Risk awareness of risk and awareness to risk of senior management External FRC review of the 2014 audit papers Auditors New standards and their potential impact on Capita Approval of non-audit services Accounting for key new contracts and acquisitions Key judgement areas 1 I ndependent Non-Executive Director.
2 P aul is a Chartered Accountant, with recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit and Risk Committees.
3 T im Brooke is independent to Capita and brings his expertise in the Financial Services sector to support the Committee.
He is not an independent Non-Executive Director of Capita.
Tim Brookes primary role is to provide quarterly feedback to the Committee and the link with the Financial Services Risk Committee.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 80 Audit and Risk Committee continued Role and responsibilities During the year, the Committee undertook the following activities: The Audit and Risk Committee assists Internal controls Received and considered reports from the Group Internal Audit the Board in fulfilling its oversight and risk Director on the audit programme and the resulting actions.
responsibilities in respect of the Company Review of foreign operations risk assessment.
The Committees key Review of qualifications and training given to individuals in responsibilities are: control areas.
i t o review the reporting of financial and Met with the Group Risk & Compliance Director, Company other information to the shareholders Secretary and Group Internal Audit Director independently of the Company and monitor the of Executive Directors.
integrity of the financial statements Monitoring the internal controls that are operated by management ii t o review the effectiveness and to ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders.
objectivity of the external audit process, assess the independence of the Review the schedule of the internal audits for the remainder Auditors and ensure appropriate policies of the year.
and procedures are in place to protect Review of major contract wins from a risk and accounting such independence perspective.
iii t o review and assess the adequacy of Review of the business plan for Risk & Compliance and the systems of internal control and Internal Audit.
risk management which includes Continual review of available reporting on Group safety, health monitoring the Companys Internal and environment.
Audit function and monitor the risk Requested presentations from each Divisional Director on the risks profile of the business within their business and the approaches taken to mitigate them.
iv to review and assess the cyber security Continued the programme to refresh our overall risk management risk and governance including the IT framework to better support the ongoing development of security for the Group and monitor the business.
the risks within this area Reviewed the activities and minutes of the Group Financial Services v t o report to the Board on how it has Risk Committee and receive an update from the Group Financial discharged its responsibilities.
Services Risk Committee Chairman on a quarterly basis.
The Audit and Risk Committees terms Reviewed the activities and minutes from the Non-Financial of reference set out in full the role, Services Risk Committee.
responsibilities and authority of the Reviewed the activities and minutes from the Group Security Committee and can be found on the Risk Committee.
com Undertook an evaluation of the Committee with the results investors.
These were reviewed and presented in January 2016 to the Committee.
External Considered and approved the audit approach and scope of audit Auditors to be undertaken by KPMG.
Committee activities during 2015 The Committee met seven times during Meeting independently of Executive Directors.
Meetings are planned around Received updates and summaries of audit findings.
the financial calendar for the Company.
Considered the level of non-audit services being provided to satisfy Reports are received at all meetings itself that the objectivity and independence was safeguarded.
from the Group Risk & Compliance and Review and approval of the representation letter.
Group Internal Audit departments and new contract terms are also reviewed Reviewed the audit planning for the annual audit.
from a risk and accounting perspective Review of letter received from FRC on the review of audit papers.
Accounting, tax Review and recommendation of the annual report and accounts and and financial the half-yearly accounts including the financial and non-financial reporting aspects, including a review of the significant accounting policies and to ensure these accounts give a fair, balanced and clear presentation of the performance of the Group.
Corporate Governance updates in relation to matters pertaining to the scope of the Committee.
Review of the disclosures of internal controls, risk management and principal risks and uncertainties within the report and accounts.
Other areas Received presentations from new areas of the business such as Mortgage Processing to gain further insight to the risk profiles of the business.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 81 Audit and Risk Committee continued During the year, the Committee reviewed Major contracts continue to be monitored Acquisition a wide range of financial reporting and through the management operations related matters, in addition to the review business review and any serious issues process: of the half-year and annual accounts prior identified in respect of these contracts to their submission to the Board.
The are referred back to the Committee Committee focused in particular on critical as required.
Introduction via Capita divisions, accounting policies and practices adopted external intermediaries or by the Group and any significant areas The Committee has also reviewed the direct approach of judgement that materially impact on external Auditors findings and where reported results.
necessary sought further confirmation or explanation from the Group Finance At each meeting, an update was also Director and the Board to concur that 8090% of ideas screened received from Group Risk and Compliance the revenue and profit recognition is out during process and Group Internal Audit.
appropriate and related assets held Central acquisitions team apply on the balance sheet are recoverable.
pricing and process disciplines The Committee is responsible for the The Committee also considers the policies on whistleblowing speak up sufficiency of related disclosures in and the provision of the non-audit the financial statements.
services by the external Auditor.
Both Detailed due diligence policies are published on the Companys Acquisition activity and accounting rationale, pricing, integration intranet and internet www.
Significant acquisitions are approved by synergies through dedicated The Committee also receives feedback the Board to ensure that the acquisition Capita teams: Risk, Finance, from the Group Financial Services Risk is in line with Group strategy and HR, Tax, IT, Legal etc.
Committee that brings together all the that sufficient due diligence has been External advisors where required regulated areas within the Group.
undertaken in order to understand the business being acquired and that any 2015 saw the ongoing programme to identified risks are quantified, explained Sign off by the Board continually improve our risk management and understood.
framework to better support the development of the business.
Further The Audit and Risk Committee receive detail is shown on pages 48 to 54 of the acquisition reports which detail the nature, Completion strategic report.
profitability and risk profile of potential acquisitions.
As part of the on-boarding of Significant issues in relation to the acquisitions into the business, the Group financial statements considered by the Finance Director and Group Financial The Committee has reviewed the Audit and Risk Committee Controller determine the point at which acquisition disclosure in the financial Revenue and profit recognition the Group obtained control of the target statements in conjunction with the The Group is successful in signing new and business and conduct a review of the external Auditors findings and where renewed contracts.
Due to the size and accounting policies of each acquisition necessary sought further confirmation complexity of some of these contracts, and whether they are compliant with or explanation from the Board in order to conclude that the disclosures there are judgements and estimates to Group policy.
Any difference is recognised are appropriate and that acquisition be applied, including the measurement in the opening balance sheet to ensure accounting has been appropriately applied.
and timing of revenue recognition and consistency.
The assets and liabilities the recognition of assets and liabilities are reviewed to ensure that they are that result from the performance of fairly stated and that there is sufficient the contract.
evidence to support any adjustments to carrying values including the recognition The Audit and Risk Committee receives of any previously unrecognised balances.
a summary presentation for all new The Group Finance Director and Group major contracts.
These reports include Financial Controller review the resulting an overall summary of the contract, the acquired opening balance sheet for each financial projections, and key risks and acquisition.
The profitability of acquisitions assumptions.
The proposed accounting is monitored through the management is considered by the Group Finance operations business reviews and any Director and the Committee to ensure serious issues identified in respect of compliance with the Groups accounting these acquisitions are referred back to policies and to understand their impact the Committee.
Technical advice is taken where necessary from the Groups technical accounting team and views discussed with the external Auditor.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 82 Audit and Risk Committee continued Carrying value of goodwill and intangibles The Committee has reviewed the external The following material disclosures were The Group has a significant goodwill Auditors report and, where necessary, considered by the Committee in year: balance representing consideration paid sought further confirmation or explanation the matters covered in the Carrying in excess of the fair value of the identified from the Board and specifically the Group value of goodwill and intangibles as stated net assets acquired.
The net assets Finance Director and Group Financial above and their presentation as nonacquired include intangible assets which Controller, to ensure that the value of underlying are determined at the date of acquisition.
goodwill, the disposals and impairments the conduct and the conclusions drawn The Committee recognises that there is a recorded and the accompanying from managements decision to complete risk that businesses can become impaired, disclosures included in these financial a review of the IT platform on which for example, due to market changes or statements are appropriate.
The Audit the Group delivers its Life and Pensions product life-cycles.
As a result, the Group and Risk Committee, having made these administration capability, which resulted monitors carrying values of goodwill enquiries, agrees with management that from changes in the marketplace, including and intangibles to ensure that they are no further impairment need be recognised the introduction of new legislation in the recoverable and any specific indicators and the transactions detailed above have form of the Pensions Freedom Act.
This of goodwill or intangible impairment are been properly disclosed and explained in review led to assets with a total net book discussed in the monthly operating boards.
value of 76.7m being fully written down the items that are consistent with This carrying value of goodwill is subject Underlying and non-underlying previous years including: intangible to impairment testing, on an annual presentation amortisation, asset services settlement basis.
The carrying value of goodwill The Committee remains of the view that provision movements, net contingent and intangible assets are reviewed on the presentation of the underlying and consideration movements, non-cash the identification of a possible indicator non-underlying information provides mark to market finance costs and of impairment, to ensure that carrying useful disclosure to aid the understanding acquisition costs.
This testing, of the performance of the Group.
The including the key assumptions and major considerations when reviewing the In keeping with the Committees main sensitivity analysis, is reviewed by the presentation of the non-underlying items considerations for the presentation Group Finance Director and Group being the items labelled as non-underlying of non-underlying items, the Audit Financial Controller.
and business exits are: and Risk Committee has reviewed the the nature of the item items included in the non-underlying During the year the Group disposed of the circumstances leading columns alongside consideration of any and targeted for disposal a number of to recognition representations made by the external businesses.
As a result of this activity the impact on the financial statements Auditor.
Having completed the exercise, goodwill impairment was recognised with regard to the requirement for a fair the Committee was able to determine that as non-underlying transactions in the and balanced presentation of performance the disclosure met with the requirements income statement representing the value of fairness and balance and where extra of goodwill disposed and included in where management and the disclosure was required, it has been the loss on sale of assets calculation for Committee concur with a need to included in the financial statements.
those businesses exited see note 4 to separately disclose certain items to the consolidated financial statements.
In fully understand and give clarity to the The Audit and Risk Committee confirmed relation to businesses to be disposed and continued activities of the Group.
that none of the 2015 business exits or held as assets held for sale on the balance businesses in the process of being exited sheet, goodwill and other assets identified meet the definition of discontinued as part of the disposal group were reoperations as stipulated by IFRS 5, which measured, such that the held for sale value requires disclosure and restatement of reflected the expected sale proceeds from comparatives where the relative size of a their ultimate disposal, resulting in an disposal or business closure is significant, impairment to the carrying value of those normally understood to mean a reported assets on their being classified as held for segment.
This impairment of Goodwill and presentation described above does not other assets was recognised as a nonfall within the requirements of IFRS 5 underlying item in the income statement.
concerning discontinued operations Subsequent to the aforementioned the and the 2014 comparative has not Group, as part of its impairment review, been restated.
identified goodwill in relation to the insurance services cash-generating unit was in excess of its value in use and was impaired, this impairment was recognised as a non underlying item in the income statement see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 83 Audit and Risk Committee continued Defined benefit pension liabilities Connaught: The potential costs in Other issues in relation to the financial The measurement of the defined benefit resolving the matter relating to Connaught statements considered by the Audit liability in respect of defined benefit Income Series 1 Fund The Fund, of and Risk Committee pension schemes is a complex area, relying which CFM was the Operator until Materiality on assumptions on inflation, mortality, September 2009, when it was replaced Materiality is important in determining returns on corporate bonds, expectations by another Operator company unrelated the risk attached to any judgement.
of returns on assets and a number of other to Capita following which CFM had no Audit materiality is set with the external inputs.
There is risk in any one of these further involvement with the Fund.
The Auditor to ensure that the Audit and Risk areas of misstatement of the Groups Fund went into liquidation in 2012 and its Committee is informed of individual items liability in respect of these obligations and liquidator brought a claim against both above a certain threshold that are most the pension charge that is recognised in former Operators.
The Group has reached likely to have an impact on the financial the income statement.
a settlement with the liquidator in respect statements.
The Audit and Risk Committee of its involvement.
reviews the external Auditors report and the The Committee reviews the disclosures individual items that breach the materiality in the financial statements along with The Financial Conduct Authority FCA thresholds and assess their relative impact the external Auditors report and receives was supporting the negotiations being on the reported statements: income representations from the Group Finance undertaken between all parties but on statement, balance sheet, statement of Director and external Auditor with regard 10 March 2015 confirmed that it had changes in equity and cash flow as well to the assumptions included in the withdrawn from the negotiations and has as the notes to the accounts.
valuation and their relative impact.
decided to formally review the activities of both Operators.
At this time no conclusion The Committee requests further Having made these enquiries, the Committee has been reached on whether any clarification from both the external determined that the valuation of the pension wrongdoing has occurred and whether any Auditor, the Group Finance Director and obligation and the accompanying disclosure enforcement action will be taken.
Whilst Group Financial Controller as to the nature is in line with expectations.
there can be no certainty that a liability of these items and also their relative will not arise in respect of this matter, importance in the financial statements.
Provisions the Group is unable to determine what There is judgement applied in the level the outcome of the FCA review might be After having made such enquiries, the of provisioning across the Group.
This and as such no provision for a potential Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied that involves making an assessment of the outflow of funds have been made.
Due materiality has been applied correctly size and timing of probable economic to the requirement to await the outcome in the accounts and that material items outflows due to the occurrence of a past of the formal review commenced by the brought to its attention remain unadjusted event.
The Committee has reviewed the FCA, this matter is likely to come to a where its inclusion would not cause disclosure in the financial statements and, conclusion later in 2016. detriment to the overall reading of the where necessary, made enquiries of the financial statements.
Group Finance Director and management Giving due consideration to these claims to gain an understanding of the the Group has made a further provision of amounts recorded.
17.2m, and incurred 21.7m in respect of compensation payments and professional In the current year 2015, disclosure has fees in relation to these matters see been continued from 2014 in recognition note 25. of the significance of two items.
These items are where provision has been made The Committee is satisfied that the in respect of matters arising in our Asset disclosure in the accounts is sufficient to Services division and are disclosed in gain an understanding of the nature of aggregate as Asset Services settlements.
these provisions and their impact on the financial statements.
Arch Cru: The parties to the CF Arch Cru Funds group litigation have entered into a full and final settlement of the proceedings on confidential terms.
It is expected this matter will be completed by the close of 2016.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 84 Audit and Risk Committee continued Disclosure of information to Auditor Auditor independence Non-audit fees The Directors who held office at the date The Committee takes seriously its The Committee has established a policy of the approval of this Directors report responsibility to put in place safeguards on the provision of services by the confirm that, so far as they are each aware, to Auditor objectivity and independence.
The policy describes the there is no relevant audit information of The Company is committed to ensuring circumstances in which the Auditor may which the Companys Auditor is unaware: appropriate independence in its be permitted to undertake non-audit work and each Director has taken all steps that relationship with the Auditor and for the Group.
The Committee oversees they ought to have taken as a Director to the key safeguards are: compliance with the policy and considers make themselves aware of any relevant and approves requests to use the Auditor the Group Finance Director monitors audit information and to establish that for non-audit work.
Any assignment where the independence of the Auditor as part the Companys Auditor is aware of the expected fee is above 150,000 requires of the Groups assessment of Auditor that information.
specific approval from the Committee effectiveness and reports to the Audit and or a member of the Committee.
The Risk Committee Statutory Auditor Company Secretary deals with day-to-day the Audit and Risk Committee routinely The Committee provides a forum administration of the policy, facilitating benchmarks the level of the Group audit for reporting by the Groups Auditor requests for approval by the Committee.
fee against other comparable companies, KPMG, and it advises the Board on the During 2015 an additional measure was both within and outside of the Groups appointment, independence and objectivity put in place and all work with the External sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in of the Auditor and on the remuneration for Auditor outside of the audit has to be prethe audit process both statutory audit and non-audit work.
It approved by Nick Greatorex.
The Auditor the Group Finance Director monitors also discussed the nature, scope and timing undertook various non-audit work such as the level and nature of non-audit fees of the statutory audit with the Auditor.
assistance on acquisitions and bids across accruing to the Auditor, and specific The Audit and Risk Committee annually our business in 2015.
Only the Audit and assignments are discussed in advance with performs an independent assessment of the Risk Committee can authorise the scope the Auditor and flagged for the approval suitability and performance of the Auditor and policy on non-audit fees.
of the Audit and Risk Committee, as in making its recommendation to the Board appropriate, and in accordance with the for their re-appointment.
Non-audit fees are proportionally Companys policy on the provision of nonlower this year 37.7% 2014: 38.2%, as a audit services by the Auditor.
The Audit The external Auditor attends all meetings percentage of all fees paid to the external and Risk Committee reviews, in aggregate, of the Committee and reports to the Auditor and the Committee continued to non-audit fees of this nature on a sixCommittee on the statutory reporting, receive updates throughout the year on monthly basis and considers implications non-audit fees and ongoing audit items.
the level of fees which have been approved for the objectivity and independence of where they as an individual instance were the relationship with the Auditor.
over the threshold stated above.
Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided The policy is reviewed by the Committee is a fundamental criterion in the selection annually.
Details of audit and non-audit of any third party auditor for assignments fees are given in note 7 on page 123. with which the Group is involved.
Such conflicts may arise across public or private sector clients and key supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in the award process for external audit assignments.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 85 Audit and Risk Committee continued External Auditor performance External Auditor re-appointment Risk management and internal control The Committee discussed the The Companys audit services were last The Committee is responsible for performance of KPMG during the period subject to a tender process in 2010 at reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups and was satisfied that the level of which time KPMG Audit Plc, subsequently system of internal control.
The system communication and reporting was in line KPMG LLP, replaced Ernst & Young LLP as of internal control is designed to manage with requirements.
This also included a the Groups Auditor.
The lead audit partner rather than eliminate the risk of failure review of effectiveness and quality of the is rotated on a five-yearly basis.
There are to achieve business objectives and can audit process.
The evaluation of KPMG no contractual obligations which restrict only provide reasonable and not absolute also included the planning of the audit the Committees choice of auditor.
assurance against material misstatement and a post-audit evaluation.
The Board has established a clear The Code states that FTSE 350 companies organisational structure with defined The evaluation focuses on understanding should tender the provision of audit authority levels.
The day-to-day running and challenging how the auditor services at least every 10 years or of the Groups business is delegated to demonstrates the effectiveness of key explain their approach, if different.
This the Executive Directors of the Company.
professional judgement made throughout requirement is kept under review by the The Executive Directors meet with both the audit and how this might be supported Committee.
The complex nature and operational and finance management by evidence of the following critical continued growth of the Group requires on a monthly basis through the Groups auditor competencies: that a knowledge base is built up year-onprogramme of Monthly Operating year by the incumbent to ensure that the Board meetings where key financial and a mindset and culture that exhibits external audit is conducted with a proper operational measures are reported on integrity and objectivity and is aligned understanding of the Groups operations a monthly basis and measured against with the expectations and interests of and the nature of the risks that it faces, both business plan budget and monthly stakeholders of their reports this is an important factor in ensuring re-forecasts.
the skills and knowledge to develop a audit quality.
It is not envisaged that the thorough understanding of the Companys tender will be undertaken prior to the The Committee has continued with the business and industry, the environment completion of 10 years.
programme of agenda items that give in which it operates and of the applicable them the opportunity to hear on a more legal and regulatory framework, and the It is proposed that KPMG LLP be put regular basis from the Managing Directors strength of character to provide effective forward as the Auditor of the Company at of the Groups divisions to determine the challenge in performing the audit the forthcoming Annual General Meeting risks inherent in those businesses and to the ability to establish effective quality and will hold office from the conclusion understand how risk and control processes control by putting in place the processes of this meeting until the conclusion of the work in their areas.
necessary to deliver a consistently high next general meeting at which accounts quality audit.
are laid before the Company, and that their On an annual basis, through the business remuneration be fixed by the Directors.
planning process, each business unit is The Audit and Risk Committee has required to prepare a risk assessment ensured that the evaluation is integrated A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP process on the key strategic, operational, with other aspects of their role related as the Auditor of the Company will be financial and accounting risks to identify, to ensuring the quality of the financial put forward at the forthcoming Annual evaluate and manage the significant risks statements obtaining evidence of the General Meeting.
They include quality of the Auditors judgements made common definitions of risk and ensure, throughout the audit, in identifying audit as far as practicable, that the policies and risks, determining materiality and planning procedures established by the Board are their work accordingly, as well as in appropriate to manage the perceived risks assessing issues.
These assessments are supplemented by a detailed evaluation of the key financial controls of the business units which are critically reviewed by the Groups Director of Risk & Compliance.
During the year, the risk assessment process revealed no significant risks of which the Board was not previously aware.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 86 Audit and Risk Committee continued The risks and uncertainties which Written reports are prepared on the Anti-bribery and whistleblowing are currently judged to have the most results of internal audit work during the speak up significant impact on the Groups longyear and submitted alongside verbal Capita has a Group-wide anti-bribery and term performance are set out on pages updates of in-progress activity to the Audit corruption policy, which is in compliance 52 to 54.
The Committee has reviewed and Risk Committee by the Group Internal with the Bribery Act 2010.
It periodically the effectiveness of the Groups risk Audit Director.
The representations given reviews its procedures to ensure continued management and internal control systems.
would set out strengths and weaknesses effective compliance in its businesses A refresh of the overall risk management identified during the work, together with around the world.
framework commenced in 2014 was any recommendations for remedial action continued in 2015 and this constant or further review.
The policy provides the framework challenge and refocusing will continue in to encourage and give employees order to identify and develop any response The reports are reviewed and discussed confidence to blow the whistle and to a change in the Groups risk profile.
with Executive Directors to whom they report irregularities.
Throughout the year, the Group encouraged to raise concerns with The Board, with the advice of the Internal Audit Director reports on the work designated individuals, including the Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness carried out to date and the in-flight work Executive Directors or the Chairman of of the risk management and internal to be completed.
the Audit and Risk Committee.
All such control systems and is satisfied that reports will be investigated and reported the Group has in place effective risk The Committee reviews managements to the Committee, together with details management and internal control systems.
response to the matters raised and ensures of corrective action taken.
The Groups that any action is commensurate with whistleblowing policy is monitored by the This enhanced risk framework introduced the level of risk identified, whether real Committee and incidences are reported a defined set of risk categories which form or perceived.
on in each meeting by the Group Risk & the basis of defining the Groups appetite Compliance Director.
In establishing this tolerance and There were no significant weaknesses critical limit concern risk appetite, the identified in the year, but a number of Paul Bowtell Committee is able to maintain governance recommendations were acted upon within Chair, Audit and Risk Committee over the principal risks to the Group and the Group to strengthen in-place controls 24 February 2016 ensure effective mitigation is in place.
The Committee remains satisfied that the Groups systems of Internal Audit internal controls work well and that there The Groups finance department includes is sufficient flexibility in the resources a separate internal audit function which required to complete a full and targeted is managed by a qualified auditor.
A full programme of internal audit work, within programme of internal audit visits has a group of Capitas size, are in place.
been completed during the year.
The scope of audit work generally focuses on internal management control and risk procedures that are operating with each of the Groups businesses, but is continually reviewed and challenged to ensure that the work it undertakes is focused on the areas of risk to the Group.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 87 Audit and Risk Committee continued Group Financial Services Non-Financial Services Group Security Risk Committee Risk Committee Risk Committee Established at the beginning of 2015, the The Group Financial Services Risk The Non-Financial Services Risk Committee meets quarterly to ensure Committee was established at the Committee was established at the end of the security control functions remain beginning of 2012 and meets at least 2013.
It meets quarterly to assess the risks adequately resourced to deliver effective quarterly to assess the risks across Capitas outside of financial services.
In 2015, it was security for Capita.
It is chaired by Alex financial services businesses.
The Forum chaired by Nick Greatorex.
Cutler, the Chief Information Officer.
is chaired by Tim Brooke, an independent member of the Committee.
The Committee met four times in The Committee met four times in 2015.
Membership and attendance The Committee met four times in was as follows: was as follows: 2015.
Membership and attendance Number of Number of was as follows: Name of member meetings attended Name of member meetings attended 3 Number of Nick Greatorex Chair 4 Alex Cutler Chair 4 Name of member meetings attended 1 Vic Gysin 1 Nick Greatorex 4 Tim Brooke Chair 4 Dawn Marriott-Sims 4 Dawn Marriott-Sims 4 Nick Greatorex 4 2 1,4 Chris Terry 3 Vic Gysin 2 1 Vic Gysin 3 2 Chris Terry 3 2 The Group Internal Audit Director also Chris Terry 4 attends.
All Non-Executives have an open The Group Internal Audit Director also Other key divisional staff are invited to invitation to attend these meetings.
All Non-Executives have an open attend and report to this forum.
All Noninvitation to attend these meetings.
Executive Directors have open invitations In overseeing Capitas risk management to attend any of these meetings.
practices and ensuring risks are limited by The primary functions of the forum are: management, appropriate use of controls, ensuring alignment of information The terms of reference for this the Executive Risk Committee holds a security activities with business objectives forum include: key position in the governance of Capitas defining the information security Group risk profile.
Its primary functions reviewing and commenting upon Group baseline policies to integrate security are to: control function oversight plans and activities with business objectives monitoring their progress oversee Capitas risk identification, communicating Group security strategy monitoring and reporting practices reviewing material findings arising from and policy mandate to Divisional and and take all steps to ensure that senior oversight activities and issues identified business management divisional management has in place by management monitoring information security procedures and mechanisms to identify tracking key regulatory changes legislative and regulatory compliance and control all fundamental strategic, impacting on the Groups regulated firms operational, financial & reporting and tracking key security metrics tracking key business developments, compliance risks tracking key IT and security changes including bids, acquisitions and provide the forum to monitor, challenge impacting on the Groups business operations offshoring developments and ensure effective mitigation is in place providing support to Group security receiving updates on regulatory capital for Capitas risk management environment resources in implementing Group issues e. g. ICAAP promote greater awareness of security policy receiving updates on Conduct risk issues risk management at all levels within ensuring organisational functions, reviewing and adopting the organisation resources and supporting infrastructure policies applicable to the financial establish and preserve oversight are available and properly utilised to services businesses for risk issues that affect Capita or its fulfil the Group security strategy and identifying items for the attention of customer base governance requirements the Board or Audit and Risk Committee.
ensure roles and responsibilities include risk management in all activities The scope of the Committee includes the providing direction on issues escalated Financial Conduct Authority FCA in the from the Information Security Steering UK and the equivalent financial services Group and IT Directors Steering Group regulator in other jurisdictions where the Group operates regulated financial implementing comprehensive oversight services firms.
via audit to ensure ongoing compliance with security baseline requirements In March 2015, the terms of reference identifying items for the attention of the of the Committee were updated and Board or Audit and Risk Committee.
approved which primarily made changes 1 V ic Gysin Joint Chief Operating Officer.
to the membership of the Committee.
2 C hris Terry Group Risk & Compliance Director.
3 A lex Cutler Chief Information Officer.
4 T erms of Reference only require one Joint Chief Operating Officer to be in attendance and therefore Vic Gysins attendance is optional.
