Audit Committee report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2015 Audit Committee Report.
The Committee plays a key oversight role for the Board, and this year its principal activities have focused on monitoring and reviewing all aspects of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management procedures.
This report provides an overview of the work undertaken by the Committee in the past year.
During 2015, the most significant topics considered by the Committee included the Groups property valuations, taxation and the accounting treatment of various significant corporate transactions.
The Committee reviewed the updated risk disclosures resulting from the change in approach to risk management described on page 14, and also reviewed the viability statement disclosurebefore it was recommended to the Board.
Henry Staunton, Chairman of the Audit Committee Henry Staunton Chairman of the Audit Committee, 24 February 2016 Members: Henry Staunton Chairman Gerry Murphy Ian Henderson Andrew Strang The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, oversees the financial The valuers and members of senior management, including the reporting process, monitors the effectiveness of internal control, Director of Tax & Treasury, attended by invitation to present internal audit, risk management, and the statutory audit and reports required for the Committee to discharge its responsibilities.
monitors the independence of the statutory auditors and the The Audit Committee met three times during 2015.
Attendance provision of non-audit services.
As at 31 December 2015 and the at these meetings is shown in the table on page 61.
The Committee date of this report, the Committee comprises four independent also met privately during the year with both the external and Non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Henry Staunton internal auditors.
who is considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee follows an annual programme, which is agreed with the Committee Chair, management and external auditors The Committees meetings were also attended by the Companys prior to each financial year, andensures it gives thorough Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, General consideration to matters of particular importance to the Company, Counsel, Company Secretary and Financial Controller together and additional matters are considered when appropriate.
The with senior representatives of the external and internal auditors.
Committees 2015 agenda is shown in the table below, and the significant matters considered by the Committee during the year are explained on page 63.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2015 Regular meeting items February Meeting July Meeting November Meeting Report from Financial Controller Going concern assessment Interim results announcement Effectiveness of External Auditor and Accounting treatment of significant Preliminary results, Annual 2015 Audit Plan recommendation for transactions Report and Management Liquidity forecasting re-appointment Representation Letter Accounting standards and policies Risk management Risk management review Determining and Property valuations recommending to the Board Viability statement Internal controls External Auditor report including that the Annual Report taken Viability statement regulatory update as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable Corporate governance policies Internal Auditor report from BDO andCommittee Terms Effectiveness of Internal Audit Tax update of Reference 2016 internal audit plan 62 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE IN 2015 Matter considered What the Committee did Valuations As in previous years, the independent external valuers presented the year-end and half-year valuations to the Committee at the February and July meetings respectively.
The Committee reviewed the valuation process and component parts of the valuations, discussed the valuations with the external auditors and challenged the valuers on the assumptions used.
The Committee also advised the Board on the independence of the valuers and obtained conrmation that management had provided all requested information.
The Committee was satisfied that the approach taken by the valuers was appropriate.
Please refer to note 16 on pages 114 to 117 in the notes to the accounts.
Tax The Director of Tax and Treasury presented a report to the Committee at the February and July meetings, explained the basis of the Groups tax position, identied key taxation risks to the Group and updated the Committee on the ongoing relationship with HMRC.
The Committee challenged the assumptions made in arriving at the tax position and discussed with the external auditors the assumptions and judgements made in arriving at the deferred tax position.
The Committee was satisfied that the policy was appropriate for the Group.
Please refer to note 29 on page 129 in the notes to the accounts.
significant As in previous years, the Committee received updates from theFinancial Controller on significant and complex and complex transactions at each meeting.
With regards to each transaction, such as the CLSA, the Solum joint venture and transactions the Olympia strategic review, the Committee discussed the accounting treatments with management and the external auditors and is satisfied that the appropriate approach has been taken.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market EXTERNAL AUDITORS Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes Committee Responsibilities The Committee oversees the relationship with and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 statement  LLP PwC, the external auditors, and of compliance is responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the the Companys policy on external audit, and for monitoring the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, under review.
The external auditors Non-Audit Services are not permitted to perform any work that they may subsequently Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are need to audit or which might either create a conict of interest or closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
Access to Committee The Company has adopted a policy to ensure that the provision The external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee of non-audit services by the external auditor does not compromise Chairman should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal its independence or objectivity.
The policy requires the Audit Committee meetings.
Committee Chairman to pre-approve any non-audit work with a Effectiveness of Auditors cost exceeding the lower of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the estimated The Committee monitored PwCs effectiveness and performance annual level of the auditors fees at that time.
Approval is only given during 2015, and considered a paper prepared by the Financial following a full and thorough assessment of the value case for using Controller which confirmed that in managements view PwC the auditor and the skills and experience the auditor would bring.
were providing a good quality audit service and continued to Additionally, consideration must be given to the preservation of deliver against all facilities considered at their appointment.
auditor independence: and the external auditors are required to The Committee is satisfied that theexternal auditors remain confirm that they are acting independently and are not: independent and objective and that the Group is receiving a robust auditing their own work: and challenging objective audit and has therefore recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed in 2016. making management decisions for the Company: creating a mutuality of interest: Tendering of External Audit Contract Capco tendered its external audit contract in 2010, and PwC were developing close personal relationships with the Companys appointed as Group auditors on an annual rolling contract.
The personnel: or Directors plan to complete an audit tender in 2020, the date by acting in the role of advocate for the Company.
which the external audit contract must be tendered to comply with regulatory requirements, unless issues are identied which require The Committee is satisfied that the policy remains effective.
a tender to be undertaken earlier.
This is in the best interest of the Companys members because it will ensure continuity of service from the external auditors.
com 63 Audit Committee report continued The total fees paid and payable to PwC in 2015 were 454,000, Viability Statement of which 14,000 related to non-audit work.
These fees primarily As part of its work in reviewing the Groups financial statements, relate to corporate transactions and verication of performance the Committee reviewed the methodology for the preparation of againstshare scheme performance conditions.
The total fees paid the viability statement including the principal risks, supporting and payable to PwC in 2015 are set out in the table below.
analysis, qualications and assumptions to be disclosed.
The viability statement can be found on page 17 2015 2014 Total fees paid to PwC 454,000 442,000 Internal Controls The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of Non-audit fees 14,000 55,000 the Groups internal controls and reports regularlyto the Board Ratio of non-audit fees 3.1% 12.4% on its work and conclusions.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, the Committee considers reports provided by the Financial Controller, external auditor and internal INTERNAL AUDITOR auditor.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identied in Internal Audit Plan the review process.
BDO LLP BDO has been appointed to act as Capcos internal auditor.
During 2015, BDOs audit plan included reviews of: Details of the Groups internal controls are set out below: contract management Day-to-day procedures and internal control framework Schedule of matters reserved for the Board treasury, cash management & bank covenants disaster recovery & business continuity Remit and terms of reference of Board Committees Bribery Act policies and procedures Delegated authority limits payroll procedures Documentation of significant transactions During 2016, it is expected that the audit plan will include reviews The Executive Directors are closely involved in the day-to-day of health & safety, joint ventures, IT security and training, expenses, operations of the business and hold regular meetings with senior insurance, accounts payable, talent management, VAT compliance management to review aspects of the business, including risks and Bribery Act policies and procedures.
and controls Regular Board updates on strategy and project developments Committee Responsibilities The Committee reviews the work of the Internal Auditor, the A whistleblowing procedure under which staff mayraise matters audit plan, any matters identied as a result of internal audits of concern condentially.
No calls were received during the year.
and whether recommendations are addressed by management in a timely and appropriate way.
The Committee is satisfied that Specic controls relating to financial reporting and the internal auditor was independent and its services effective.
consolidation process Appropriately staffed management structure, with clear lines Access to the Committee of responsibility and accountability The internal audit partner has direct access to theAudit Committee Chairman should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal A comprehensive budgeting and review system.
The Committee meets with the internal Audit Committee updates from the Chief Financial Officer auditors at least once per year without management being present.
which include forecasts, performance against budget and financial covenants INTERNAL CONTROL & RISK MANAGEMENT Led by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance team participates Risk Management in the control self-assessment and policy compliance elements of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk the risk management framework and sets formal requirements management framework and system of internal control and the with business unit finance functions which specify the reports ongoing review of their effectiveness: it also determines the risk and approvals required appetite of the Group and regularly reviews principal risks and uncertainties.
The framework is designed to manage rather than BDO conduct regular audits of the Groups financial control eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, procedures and reports its findings to the Audit Committee assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has The Committee is satisfied that the Groups internal controls are delegated responsibility for the review of the adequacy and operating effectively.
effectiveness of the Groups internal controls relating to risk to the Committee.
During 2015, a review of risk management across the Group was undertaken.
The Committee reviewed the controls relating to risks and the updated principal risk disclosures.
A description of the Group risk management framework andthe review undertaken during the year is set out on page 14.
