Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2015 Nomination Committee Report.
Having welcomed Gerry Murphyto the Board on 1 March 2015, during 2015the Committee continued to focus on Board and Committee composition to ensure that the Board continues to have the right mix of skills and experience to deliver Capcos strategy, and I am pleased that Anthony Steains will be joining the Board on 1 March 2016.
Anthony will bring extensive corporate finance experience and a diverse and international perspective to the Board.
The report below provides more information on our Non-executive Director recruitment process and the induction that we provide to our new Directors.
As I explained in my letter on page 7, Ian Henderson will be retiring from the Board at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
The Board is pleased that Ianwill remain available to the Company on a consultancy basis following his retirement from the Board, allowing the Company to continue to benefit from his extensive experience.
Ian Durant, Chairman of the Nomination As previously reported, the Committee recognises the need to maintain the Committee depth of property experience on the Board.
Accordingly the Committee will continue to focus on this area during 2016.
Ian Durant Chairman of the Nomination Committee, 24 February 2016 Members: Ian Durant Chairman Gerry Murphy Andrew Strang Ian Hawksworth Demetra Pinsent Ian Henderson Henry Staunton The Nomination Committee has responsibility for making recommendation to the Board that Anthony Steains be appointed recommendations on Board appointments and succession to as a Non-executive Director of the Company and as a member of the the Board.
Work to recruit a further Non-executive Director, with specic property experience, will continue in 2016.
The members of the Committee as at 31 December 2015 and the date of this report are listed in the box above.
The Nomination Non-executive Director induction Committee met twice during the year, and attendance at these An induction programme is provided for each new Non-executive meetings is shown in the table on page 61.
Director, which is tailored depending on the Directors experience and expected role on the Board.
A typical induction programme for Non-executive Director recruitment a Capco Non-executive Director will include individual meetings Capco operates a rigorous and transparent recruitment process for new Directors.
During 2014, following a full review of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge of Board members, it was Matters considered by the Committee during agreed that two new Non-executive Directors should be recruited, the year include: of whom at least one should have specic property expertise.
Board and Committee composition, including diversity The Zygos Partnership, which provides no other services to the Non-executive Director recruitment Group, was engaged by Capco in 2014 and 2015 to assist with the recruitment of Non-executive Directors.
To ensure that the Succession planning long-list of candidates reected diversity of both gender and skills, Board evaluation a broad brief was provided to the Zygos Partnership.
A description of the Non-executive Director recruitment process is set out on Directorsskills and experience page 66.
In January 2015the Committee made a formal Directors time commitments recommendation to the Board that Gerry Murphy be appointed as a Non-executive Director of the Company and as a member of Committee terms of reference the Nomination Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, and in February 2016 the Committee made a formal www.
com 65 Nomination Committee report continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR RECRUITMENT PROCESS Nomination Committee considers Board composition and determines desired skills and experience A person specication is prepared A shortlist of executive search rms is prepared and a selection process followed A list of candidates is identied The Chairman and Chief Executive meet with shortlisted candidates and provide feedback to the Committee All Directors, the General Counsel and the Company Secretary are given the opportunity to meet the preferred candidate The Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board with the Chairman, Executive Directors, At present, Capco has one female Director.
Committee membership General Counsel, Company Secretary and The Board does not feel that it is appropriate Following Ian Hendersons decision to members of senior management, site visits to set targets on gender diversity as all retire from the Board, the Committee to Capcos estates, and an introduction by appointments must be made on merit: considered whether it was appropriate the Chairman to the Companys brokers, however, gender andwider diversity will to recommend any changes to Committee advisers and lawyers.
The Director is also continue to be taken into consideration membership and recommended to the provided with copies of past Board and when evaluating the skills, knowledge Board that Gerry Murphy should become Committee papers and minutes, and and experience desirable to ll each Chairman of the Remuneration Committee individual briengs are arranged on Board vacancy.
and that Demetra Pinsent should join the topics such as Directors duties and Remuneration Committee.
Board composition and succession responsibilities and the property market.
The Committee regularly considers Directors core areas of experience: Non-Executive Director development Board composition and succession planning The Chairman and the Committee together for both Executive and Non-executive ensure that Directors keep their skills and Directors.
In considering Executive Director knowledge up to date to allow them to succession, the Boards strategy is to full their roles on the Board and Board consider both internal and external Committees.
The General Counsel and candidates, whilst aiming to develop a Company Secretary regularly update the choice of internal potential successors.
The Board on legal and corporate governance focus of Non-executive Director succession matters, and information on training planning is to ensure that the Board and its opportunities and seminars is circulated Committees continue to have the right mix to Directors.
The Company also arranges of skills and experience to deliver Capcos periodic briengs from external advisers, strategy.
A summary of Directors core areas and Directors receive regular business of experience as at the date of this report is updates from the Executive Directors.
shown in the gure to the right.
Directors may also take independent Board succession and composition will advice at the Companys expense where continue to be considered at Committee they feel this is appropriate.
Property 43% meetings during 2016, and the Committee Finance 29% Diversity will make recommendations to the Board Diversity is important to Capco across the where appropriate.
Consumer 21% & Retail Group and we recognise the business benets of employing people with varied Luxury Goods 7% outlooks.
We are keen to develop female talent and the ratio of men to women within Both Executive and Non-executive Capcos senior management team is 1:1.
Some Directors are represented in more than one category.
Please refer to pages 48 and 49 of the Corporate Responsibility Report for more information on Capcos people practices, including our learning and development strategies.
