Audit and Risk Committee Report This report provides details of the role of the Audit and MEETINGS Risk Committee and the work it has undertaken during As currently constituted, the Committee met twice the year.
Prior to the IPO, the Group had in place a during the year with details of attendance at these Committee which comprised three representatives meetings set out in the Corporate Governance Report from the Charterhouse Funds together with the Chief on page 36.
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
The last meeting of the previous Committee One Committee meeting was held prior to the took place on 24 March 2014 and references to the completion of the IPO on 24 March 2014 at which Committee in this report include activities during the KPMG LLPs audit findings for the year ended year both before and after the IPO.
31 January 2014 were presented and the Committee also considered various matters in connection with the ROLE OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE IPO.
Additionally, a number of meetings were held with The principal responsibilities of the Committee, which KPMG LLP during the IPO process in their capacity as has received delegated authority from the Board, reporting accountants.
are to: ROUTINE ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR oversee the integrity of the Groups financial During the year but predominantly in the period since statements and public announcements relating to the IPO, the work of the Committee has principally financial performance: fallen under the following areas: oversee the Groups external audit process including implementing the recommendations of KPMG LLP as its scope and the extent of the non-audit services regards the systems and controls which the Group provided by our auditors: has in place to enable the Board to make proper monitor the effectiveness of financial controls: judgements on a continuing basis as to the financial evaluate the process for identifying and managing position and prospects of the Group: risk throughout the Group: and reviewing the process for identifying and managing ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, risk within the business, including a review of the balanced and understandable.
Groups risk register in December 2014: reviewing the Groups current IT strategy and the A more detailed explanation of the Audit and Risk structure of and resource within the IT team: Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance reviewing the Groups current business continuity Report on page 37 and the Committees terms of plan and processes: reference, which are published on Card Factorys investor website www.
com, verifying the independence of the Groups auditors, comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
approving the audit plan and the audit fee proposal and setting performance expectations for the MEMBERSHIP auditors: Since the IPO, the Audit and Risk Committee has been approval of the Groups half-year results published in chaired by David Stead, and its other members are September 2014: Octavia Morley and from 1 December 2014 Paul developing the Groups policy for use of auditors for McCrudden.
Geoff Cooper was also a member of the non-audit work see below : Committee during the year and until 24 February 2015. considering and approving the Groups tax strategy which covers, amongst other things, the roles and As David Stead is a chartered accountant and is responsibilities of those who input into its tax currently the Finance Director of Dunelm Group plc, processes, the objectives of the Groups tax function, the Board considers that his financial experience is the Groups key tax policies and principles, the both recent and relevant in accordance with the Groups attitude to tax risk and our relationship with requirements of the Code.
HMRC and our tax advisers: The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, reviewing the scope of the work currently carried out and the Chairman of the Board usually attend meetings by the Groups operational audit function and of the Committee by invitation, along with a supplementing this through the appointment of representative from our auditors, KPMG LLP.
The Deloitte LLP to provide certain internal audit services Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
see below : and reviewing fraud detection controls and the reporting of incidents in accordance with the Groups whistleblowing policy.
44 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S ACTIVITIES AFTER THE YEAR END The detailed plan developed for the Group included In the period following the year end, the Committee a comprehensive articulation of the accounting met once in March 2015 and covered the following: treatments necessary both before and after the IPO and the Group has worked closely with its advisers to ensure a review of the integrity of the draft financial the accounting entries necessary have been executed in statements for the year ended January 2015, the accordance with the plan.
appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern assumptions and considering the auditors Subsequent to the IPO, we have considered the report regarding their findings on the annual results: appropriate presentation of our first results as a a review of the systems and controls which the Group premium listed company and the key areas of technical has in place to enable the Board to make proper consideration were the application of the principles of judgements on a continuing basis as to the financial reverse acquisition accounting to the Group and the position and prospects of the Group: presentation of the significant costs incurred in the year a review of whether the Annual Report and Accounts, in connection with the IPO.
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information The Group has deployed significant accounting necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys resource to review the accounting in connection with strategy, business model and performance: the Companys IPO and is satisfied that the transactions a review and recommendation for approval of the concerned have been accurately reported.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended January 2015: and Accounting for foreign exchange hedging instruments The business aims to hedge a significant proportion of a review of the performance, effectiveness and planned foreign currency stock purchases.
A number of qualifications of the auditors and recommendation forward hedges are in place and, where appropriate, for their re-appointment.
hedge accounting is adopted by the Group.
SIGNIFICANT AREAS OF JUDGEMENT Hedge accounting is by nature complex and is subject Within its terms of reference, the Committee monitors to documentary requirements and periodic the integrity of the annual and half-year results and effectiveness testing involving a degree of judgement.
interim management statements, including a review In order to ensure compliance with the requirements for of the significant financial reporting issues and hedge accounting the Group formally documents the judgements contained in them.
designation of foreign currency hedges at the outset of each hedging relationship and hedge effectiveness is At its meeting in March 2015, the Committee: tested on a monthly basis.
Forecast foreign currency reviewed the Groups results for the financial year: requirements and the level of hedges in place are considered a paper prepared by KPMG LLP, which monitored on an on-going basis.
included comments on significant reporting and accounting matters: and reviewed a paper from the The Committee is satisfied that accounting policies in Chief Financial Officer to support the Directors respect of hedge accounting have been appropriately going concern statement.
The major accounting issues discussed by the Inventory Committee concerned: Due to the nature of the Groups business, it holds the accounting relating to the Companys IPO: significant volumes, and a broad range, of inventory.
the accounting relating to the Groups foreign Certain of the Groups inventory valuation procedures exchange hedging instruments: and are largely manual in nature as are certain controls around inventory once it has left the Groups the Groups inventory.
distribution centre and has been delivered to stores.
Accounting for the IPO Given the volume and nature of inventory held and the The Groups corporate structure prior to the completion manual nature of certain controls, there is a risk that a of the IPO on 20 May 2014 was relatively complex in material misstatement could arise due to the volume or nature and structured to meet the needs of the Group cost of inventory being incorrectly recorded.
and its shareholder base prior to the IPO.
The Group engaged appropriate legal, accounting and tax advisers to develop a Group structure which would facilitate the Companys admission to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued The Group has a number of formal processes and The fee paid to KPMG LLP for the statutory audit of the procedures to assess the reasonableness of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit inventory value presented in the Annual Report and of Group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation was Accounts.
A breakdown of fees paid to KPMG LLP during the financial year is set out in note 4 to the full inventory counts twice yearly both in-store and in financial statements on page 88. the Groups distribution centre: additional store counts of seasonal inventory at the Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditors and to end of the key trading seasons for the business: authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration will reviews of inventory levels by store: and be put to shareholders at the AGM.
detailed analytical review to assess the reasonableness of the inventory figure.
The regulatory requirements on mandatory audit tendering and rotation are continuing to evolve and the The Committee is satisfied that the judgements Committee will monitor developments in this area.
In made by management are reasonable and that any event, we have decided to adopt a policy that we appropriate disclosures have been made in the will tender the statutory audit at least every ten years Annual Report and Accounts.
As KPMG LLP have been our auditors since 2011 12, this means that the next tender will be for The Committee also confirmed to the Board that it the 2021 22 audit at the latest.
We intend to invite at considered the Annual Report and Accounts as a least one firm outside the Big Four to participate in the whole to be fair, balanced and understandable.
INTERNAL AUDIT We comply with the Competition and Markets The Groups operational audit function was established Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. a number of years ago and is primarily focused on fraud and loss prevention in Card Factory stores which it The Group has no contractual arrangements for monitors through compliance checks and internal example, within borrowing arrangements that restrict investigations.
The work of this function and its its choice of auditor.
operational processes are set out in a detailed manual that is reviewed on a regular basis by the USE OF AUDITORS FOR NON-AUDIT WORK Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee recognises that the use of audit firms for non-audit services can potentially give rise to As described on page 41 in the Corporate Governance conflicts of interest and is therefore a sensitive issue.
Report, all of the Groups other internal controls are currently managed and monitored by the Groups senior Prior to completion of the IPO, the Groups approach to management team including the Chief Executive procuring non-audit services was to select the most Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
Whilst the appropriate provider based on their knowledge, current system was reviewed and found to be effective experience, cost and there not being a conflict of in anticipation of the IPO, the Committee, taking into interest, with some services being the subject of formal account the continued growth of the Group, has tender processes.
appointed Deloitte LLP to provide additional internal audit services to the Group.
At the time the IPO process commenced, the Board felt our auditors, KPMG LLP, were the most appropriate firm Deloitte LLP were appointed on 24 March 2015 to carry out the substantial amount of work that was following a competitive tender process.
Their work required to complete the IPO in the required timescales will be focused on evaluating the effectiveness and given their extensive knowledge of the Group.
robustness of the Groups current system of internal control and its approach to identifying and mitigating Since completing the IPO, the Group has adopted risks that the business is faced with.
The Committee a formal policy regarding its use of audit firms will report on the work of Deloitte LLP in next years for non-audit services, a copy of which is annual report.
available on Card Factorys investor website www.
The Committee, in EXTERNAL AUDITORS addition to being responsible for the oversight of our KPMG LLP have conducted the statutory audit for auditors on behalf of the Board, also has responsibility the financial year ended 31 January 2015 and they for monitoring how this policy is implemented.
attended the Committee meetings in September 2014, December 2014 and March 2015.
The Committee had the opportunity to meet privately with them during the period.
46 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S Under the policy, our auditors are eligible for selection to provide non-audit services where it is in the Groups best interest for them to do this and they are best placed to deliver the required service in terms of quality and cost, taking into account their skills and experience.
This is subject to the overriding principle that the auditors may not provide a service which: places them in a position to audit their own work: results in them making management decisions for the Group: creates a mutuality of interest: or puts them in the role of advocate for the Company or any member of the Group.
All work commissioned from our auditors is required to be sanctioned by the Chief Financial Officer, who consults with the Committee Chairman if the fee involved is significant or if there are any issues regarding independence, and the policy has built in levels of authority, to control the awarding of non-audit work to the Companys auditors.
The Chief Financial Officer also provides the Committee with reports at each meeting on audit, audit-related and non-audit expenditure, together with details of any material non-audit related assignments.
The aggregate fees paid to KPMG LLP for non-audit work during the year were 465,000: however, excluding activity related directly to the Listing, the relevant amount was 31,000 equivalent to 29.0% of the audit fee.
Subsequent to the IPO, we have also retained the services of KPMG LLP to provide tax advice, to perform an independent review of our half-year results, and for sundry additional assignments flowing from the IPO.
Full details are given in note 4 to the financial statements on page 88.
On balance, the Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit fees, and the nature of services provided, are not such as to compromise the objectivity and independence of the auditors.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Committee on 24 March 2015.
David Stead Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 24 March 2015 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
