Corporate governance report OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK A governance framework that supports the achievementof Capcos strategic objectives.
Ian Durant, Chairman Dear Shareholder, The Board is keen to ensure that a balance of skills and experience aligned to Capcos strategic goals is I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2015 Corporate maintained, and during the year, the Nomination Governance Report.
Committee continued to review succession planning As reported in my Chairmans statement, Capco had and progress recruitment of Non-executive Directors.
another successful year in 2015, executing its strategy In March 2015, Gerry Murphy was appointed as an for its assets and generating strong returns for additional Non-executive Directorand I am pleased shareholders.
that we will welcome Anthony Steains to the Board in March 2016.
The Nomination Committee Report The Board is responsible for the long-term success of on pages 65 to 66 provides more detail of our Capco, and as Chairman I am responsible for ensuring recruitmentprocess and induction arrangements that the Board operates effectively and efficiently in for Non-executive Directors.
achieving its strategic objectives and managing the corporate risks while continuing to strive for Ian Henderson will beretiring from the Board and as outperformance for our shareholders.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director at the Companys forthcoming AGM, and will step down Capcos strong performance since its establishment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with has been underpinned by a robust governance effect from 25 April 2016.
The Board is pleased that framework.
In this report, and the Committee reports Ian will remain available to the Company on a that follow, we explain how the Board and its consultancy basis following his retirement from Committees operated during the year.
We also include the Board, allowing the Company to continue to information on some of the management committees benefit from his extensive experience.
Gerry Murphy that strengthen the controls and reporting framework is to become Chairman of the Remuneration across the Group.
Committee, and Demetra Pinsent will join the During the year, we undertook reviews of a number Committee on 25 April 2016.
I am pleased to confirm of our internal management systems, including risk that Henry Staunton will becomeSenior Independent management, business continuity and disaster Director on Ian Hendersons retirement.
2015 saw our first major demolition and construction projects begin at Earls Court and Lillie Square, alongside a heightened security environment following the terrorist incidents in Paris and elsewhere.
We therefore reviewed our health and safety reporting across the Group and established a Security Risk Committee to provide Group-wide Ian Durant oversight of security risk.
Chairman Taking account of the robust internal management 24 February 2016 of Community, Environmental and People matters, the Board has decided that with immediate effect STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE Corporate Responsibility matters will be reported UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE directly to the Board.
Accordingly, the Corporate The Company has applied the principles and Responsibility Committee of the Board will complied with the provisions ofthe UK Corporate be dissolved.
Governance Code the Code during 2015.
56 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board papers are circulated a week in advance of meetings to ensure THE BOARD that Directors have sufficient time to consider their content prior to The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success the meeting.
If matters require approval at short notice, written of the Company, and for its leadership, strategy, values, standards, approval is sought from the Directors.
Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Executive Directors, subject to formal delegated The Chairman meets regularly with the Non-executive Directors authority limits: however, certain matters have been reserved for without the Executive Directors being present and maintains Board approval.
These matters are reviewed annually and include: regular contact with both the Chief Executive and members of Board and Committee composition, strategy, significant funding senior management.
decisions and corporate transactions, delegated authority limits As matters that require the Boards decision are often large, and dividend policy.
complex and evolve over a period of time, informal update Board composition meetings are held between Board meetings to allow Board As at 31 December 2015, the Board comprised the Chairman, three membersadequate time to explore, understand and challenge Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors.
The table on matters under consideration.
These are often combined with site page58 summarises the membership of the Board and Committees.
visits and provide an opportunity for the Non-executive Directors to meet senior management.
Four such updates were held during Biographies of each ofthe Directors, which include information on 2015, including a presentation on EC planning matters and a visit their skills and experience, can be found on pages 54 and 55. to the Earls Court demolition and Lillie Square construction sites.
Board independence During 2015, the Board received regular asset, financial and The Code requires that, excluding the Chairman, at least half of performance updates from the Executive Directors and reports the Board should comprise Non-executive Directors determined from the Company Secretary, General Counsel, Director of to be independent.
HR & CR and Committee Chairmen.
The table below shows The Board has considered the independence of the Non-executive thekey areasconsidered by theBoard during the year.
Directors, and the table on page 58 sets out those Directors BOARD COMMITTEES considered to be independent in character and judgement.
Each of The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination these Directors has also confirmed that there is no reason why they and Corporate Responsibility Committees to enable the Board should not continue to be considered independent.
to operate effectively and ensure a strong governance framework In considering Director independence, the Board concluded that for decision making.
Directors tenure should be counted from the date of their first Each Committee has written terms of reference which were election by shareholders to the Capco Board.
The terms of reference can be viewed on The key responsibilities of Board members are set out in the table on page 59. the Companys website www.
Minutes of all Committee meetings are made available to all Directors.
The THE BOARD IN 2015 Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any questions The Board met formally throughout the year with main meetings on the Committees activities.
timed around the financial calendar, and additional meetings convened to consider specic matters as required.
Attendance The Board has decided that, taking account of therobust internal at Board and Committee meetings held during 2015 is shown management of Community, Environmental and People on page 61. matters, Corporate Responsibility will in future be reported on directly to the Board, instead of through a Corporate Responsibility The annual Board calendar includes a two-day strategy meeting Committee.
Accordingly, this Committee will be dissolved.
which is held away from the Capco offices.
At this meeting the Board receives detailed updates from external advisers and the A number of management committees support the business in business units, and is able to consider strategic issues in depth, delivering its strategy.
and spend time with members of senior management in a less A summary of the role of each Committee is shown on page 58, and the activity of each formal environment.
Committee during 2015 is described on pages 62 to 87.
MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN 2015 Business Strategy Financial Governance, & New Business Properties Performance Internal Controls & Risk Strategy Property valuations Annual and half-year results Risk appetite and principal risks and dividends New business opportunities Covent Garden performance Health & Safety, Security Risk and IT security Treasury and cash updates Completion of TfL investment Kings Court & Carriage Hall management vehicle developments Board evaluation and action plan includingrenancings Key investment decisions Earls Court demolition and Legal and regulatory updates Group tax position including property acquisitions, Lillie Square construction AGM resolutions andvoting launch ofLillie Square Phase 2 Market & Broker updates Planning consents Board Committees terms of reference and schedule and acquisition of interest in Budget of matters reserved for the Board Solum Developments www.
com 57 Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE THE BOARD Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Management of strategy, leadership and risk Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility Oversees financial reporting Sets remuneration policy Recommends Board Committee dissolved appointments Monitors internal controls Sets Executive Director Aligned corporate responsibility remuneration and incentives Succession planning initiatives with the corporate Oversees risk management strategy Approves annual performance Board evaluation Monitors internal and objectives external auditors Oversaw corporate responsibility activities Further information can be found in: Audit Committee Report on Directors Remuneration Nomination Committee Report CR Committee Report onpage 67 pages 62 to 64 Reporton pages68 to 87 on pages 65 and 66 Corporate Responsibility Risk Management Report on Reporton pages46 to 53 pages 14 to 17 Management Committees: Executive Risk Committee Business Services Committee Security Risk Committee GroupSafety Executive management forum Supports the business and Provides Group-wide Leadership Team for review and discussion of streamlines delivery of oversight of the management Provides Group-wide oversight risks, controls and mitigation business services of security risk of management and measures Establishes and promotes implementation of Capcos Group-wide policies and Health and Safety Policy and systems to enable the Company Management System to operate efficiently Corporate Responsibility Insurance Committee Ensures coordination of Executive Committee Group-wide insurance matters Manages the CR activities of the Group Prepares CR policy Sets CR targets and monitors progress BOARD INDEPENDENCE Audit Remuneration Nomination CR Committee Name Independent Committee Committee Committee Dissolved Ian Durant Chairman n a Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive No Soumen Das No Gary Yardley No Graeme Gordon No Ian Henderson Yes Senior Independent Director Gerry Murphy Yes Demetra Pinsent Yes Henry Staunton Yes Andrew Strang Yes 56% independent 58 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ROLES OF BOARD MEMBERS The followingtable sets out thekey responsibilities of Board members: Roles of Board Members Position Name Responsibilities Chairman Ian Durant Leads the Board, ensures its effectiveness and sets its agenda.
Ensures an effective link between shareholders, the Board and management.
Chief Executive Ian Hawksworth Develops the Companys strategic direction, implements policies and strategies agreed by the Board and manages the business.
Managing Director & Soumen Das Responsible for developing and implementing financial strategy for the Group, andthe Chief Financial Officer  of the Covent Garden Estate.
Managing Director & Gary Yardley Responsible for leading the Groups real estate investment, overseeing significant real estate Chief Investment Officer transactions and the investment performance of Earls Court.
Non-executive Directors Ian Henderson, Graeme Constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of the agreed Gordon, Gerry Murphy, corporate strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
Demetra Pinsent, Henry Staunton, Andrew Strang All Directors have access to the advice and services of: Company Secretary Ruth Pavey Advises the Board on corporate governance matters and ensures a good ow of information within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Nonexecutive Directors.
General Counsel Anne Byrne Provides legal advice and guidance to the Board: reports on business services activities.
SITE VISIT TO EARLS COURT AND LILLIE SQUARE In November 2015, the Non-executive Directorstoured the Earls Court demolition site at one of the Board updates.
During the engaging tour the Directors were shown the progress that had been made so far in the demolition of the Exhibition Centres and saw first-hand some of the methods used and the logistical challenges of the site.
In addition to visiting the Earls Court demolition site, the Directors also visited the Lillie Square construction site where they were able to see how the development was progressing from a purpose built observation platform, and viewed the new three-bedroom mock-up apartment.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued presentations and webcasts.
The site also includes links to our ENSURING AN EFFECTIVE BOARD business unit websites and contact details for shareholder queries.
Recognising that Capcos Board must be effective, the Board conducts an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of Annual General Meeting its Committees and Directors.
In 2015 the evaluation was managed Our AGM allows the Board to update our shareholders on Capcos by the Chairman and Company Secretary.
Directors were asked to progress, and provides an opportunity for shareholders to pose assess the effectiveness of the Board by providing a mixture of questions to the Directors, and meet senior executives.
The outcomes of the Shareholders are encouraged to vote on the resolutions put to the evaluation were considered by the Board and a Board action plan meeting, either in person, online or by submitting a proxy card.
As the last external Board evaluation was We publish the results of the votes on all resolutions on our website undertaken in 2013, an  Board evaluation following the meeting.
Our 2016 AGM will be held on Friday 6 May 2016.
The notice of In addition, during the year the Senior Independent Annual General Meeting will be issued to shareholders at least Director conducted an appraisal of the Chairmans performance 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions will which identied a number of matters for focus during 2016, be proposed on each issue, and in accordance with the Code, each and the Chairman undertook appraisals of the other Director, with the exception of Ian Henderson who is retiring Directors performance.
from the Board at the AGM, will offer themselves for election COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS or re-election.
Our policy The Chairman, Chairmen of the Board Committees and other The Board is keen to ensure that our shareholders and potential Directors will be available at the AGM to meet shareholders and investors have a good understanding of Capcos business and answer any questions.
performance, and that Directors are aware of any issues and concerns which shareholders may have.
The Company Should shareholders have any concerns that they are unable to communicates with stakeholders in a number of ways: successfully resolve following communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, they may raise them Corporate website through the Senior Independent Director.
com allows visitors to access Company information, annual reports, results 2015 BOARD EVALUATION Chairman and Company Secretary considered the approach to be taken for the 2015 Board Evaluation The Nomination Committee considered the proposed approach and approved the use of Thinking Board, provided by Independent Audit A questionnaire was prepared and issued to Directors The responses were collated and provided to the Board for their discussion An action plan was agreed ACTIONS FOR 2015 PROGRESS ACTIONS FOR 2016 Ensure effective induction of Effective induction programme of Gerry Implement annual health and safety new Non-executive Director s Murphy delivered brieng in addition to the regular reports to each meeting Consider whether existing Ensured regular updates held including opportunities for informal a Non-executive Director dinner Ensure effective reporting ofCorporate Board contact are sufficient Responsibility to the Board Risk management review completed.
Risk Review risk management is considered at every Board meeting Review the effectiveness of the new risk and reporting management structure 60 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The following table shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during 2015: Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR Ian Durant Chairman 7 7 2 2 3 3 Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive 7 7 2 2 3 3 Soumen Das 7 7 Gary Yardley 7 7 Graeme Gordon 7 7 Ian Henderson SID 7 7 3 3 7 7 2 2 3 3 Andrew Huntley 2 2 2 2 1 1 Gerry Murphy 6 6 2 2 5 5 1 1 Demetra Pinsent 7 7 2 2 3 3 Henry Staunton 7 7 3 3 7 7 2 2 Andrew Strang 7 7 3 3 7 7 2 2 7372 3 this appointment.
The Board considered this appointment carefully Communications with shareholders and other stakeholders before conrming its approval and remains satisfied that there is no Communication with the Companys investors is a priority for the conict of interest and that the appointment does not compromise Board.
The Company runs an extensive investor relations his independence.
programme, and the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Director of Investor Relations hold meetings with institutional On appointment, and each subsequent year, Non-executive Directors investors throughout the year, including results presentations, are required to confirm in writing that they have sufficient time to webcasts, road shows, one-to-one meetings and investor tours.
devote to the Companys affairs.
In addition, they are required to seek prior approval from the Chairman before taking on any The Companys major shareholders are encouraged to meet with additional external commitments which may affect their time the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director to discuss any available to devote to the Company, and the Board is advised of matters they may wish to raise.
During 2015, the Chairman and any changes.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee held a number of meetings with shareholders, including discussion of remuneration The interests of new Directors are reviewed during the recruitment and governance matters.
process and, if appropriate, authorised by the Board on appointment.
The Directors receive regular updates on the Companys major The Board is satisfied that all Non-executive Directors are shareholders, and receive reports on shareholder feedback at contributing effectively to the operation of the Board.
The Non-executive Directors are invited The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to to attend the Companys results presentations.
authorise potential conicts of interest that may arise.
The Board Private shareholders may raise questions through the has adopted a procedure under which Directors must notify the Company Secretarys office either by telephone or by email Chairman of any potential conicts.
The Chairman then decides feedback@capitalandcounties.
whether a conict exists and recommends its authorisation by the Board where appropriate.
A Director who had a conict of interest The Company maintains active relations with community would not be counted in the quorum or entitled to vote when the stakeholders.
Board considered the matter in which the Director had an interest.
Please see page 50 and 51 in the CR Report for more details of Capcos stakeholder engagement.
DTR DISCLOSURE The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Transparency Rules are contained in this report, and the Audit The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in his Committee and Nomination Committee Reports, except for biography on page 55.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is contained in additional commitments allow him to devote sufficient time to the Directors Report on pages 88 and 89. perform his duties as Chairman of Capco.
The Deputy Chairman, who isretiring from the Board at the 2016 AGM, is a Director of the Board of Capcos joint venture in respect of the Lillie Square development.
He receives no remuneration for www.
