Corporate Governance Report OUR APPROACH ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is committed to the highest standards of The strategy for the growth of the business is corporate governance.
Following the IPO, the Board determined by the Board in a manner that both understands the importance of its leadership on facilitates the development and growth of the Group governance in setting the culture and values that are over the long-term in the interests of its shareholders instilled within the business and which will allow it to and recognises the importance of our duties to achieve its long-term strategic goals whilst successfully colleagues, customers, the community in which we managing and lowering risks for our shareholders.
operate and the interests of our other stakeholders all of which have been central to the development of the We believe that good governance is demonstrated by business and its culture to date.
applying corporate governance principles and guidelines in a way that reflects the nature of our In addition to setting strategy, the Board takes overall business.
By doing this we believe we strengthen our responsibility for measuring the Groups progress toward ability to develop a governance culture in the business this and ensures the exercise of its control and decision that sits alongside the entrepreneurial spirit that has making powers are aligned with its strategic direction.
enabled it to develop into the business it is today and to successfully complete the IPO.
BOARD COMPOSITION, BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE POST-IPO GOVERNANCE SUMMARY The Board currently comprises six members.
Key activities during the year: The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that thorough review and assessment of existing at least half the board of directors of a UK listed governance arrangements in advance of the IPO and company, excluding the chairman, should comprise implementation of key recommendations before, and non-executive directors determined by the Board to be throughout the period since, completion of the IPO: independent in character and judgement and free from in anticipation of the IPO, the Groups legal advisers, relationships or circumstances which may affect, or Linklaters LLP, provided training to the Board on the could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
governance requirements for a premium listed company and this has been supplemented in the At the time of the IPO, the Company did not comply period since the IPO with legal and governance with this recommendation as the Board consisted of the updates from the Groups Company Secretary: Non-Executive Chairman, two Independent Nonin anticipation of the IPO, a Non-Executive Chairman Executive Directors, one Non-Executive Director and and Non-Executive Directors have been appointed two Executive Directors.
In the period since completion and Board committees formed: of the IPO, the Company has carried out an extensive following completion of the IPO, Paul McCrudden has search and selection process to seek to redress the been appointed as an additional Non-Executive current imbalance in the Board and to appoint a further Director and a member of all of the Board Independent Non-Executive Director.
Paul McCrudden committees: and was appointed as an additional Independent NonExecutive Director on 1 December 2014.
Additionally, all Directors will be submitted for reappointment at Graeme Coulthard, who was considered by the Board the AGM.
to be non-independent under the Code, resigned from the Board on 3 February 2015 pursuant to the terms of Since the year end: the Relationship Agreement.
Graeme Coulthard has resigned as a Non-Executive Director following a significant reduction in the share Although the Board is small relative to some other holding of the Charterhouse Funds and the related similar premium listed companies, the current termination of the Relationship Agreement: and preference is for it to remain this way to ensure it following the appointment of Paul McCrudden, continues to be an effective and efficient decision Geoff Cooper has stepped down as a member making body that supports the Groups growth.
Chairman Geoff Cooper CODE COMPLIANCE The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that, Save as set out in the paragraphs below, since the on appointment, the chairman of a company with a completion of the IPO, the Board has complied with and premium listing on the Official List should meet the intends to continue to comply with the requirements independence criteria set out in the Code.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council On appointment, the Board considered Geoff Cooper to the UK Corporate Governance Code or the Code a be independent but his appointment is subject to the copy of which can be obtained from www.
terms of a letter of appointment agreed between him The Company will report to its shareholders on its and the Company dated 30 April 2014 under which, as compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in part of his remuneration, Geoff was given the option to accordance with the Listing Rules LRs.
invest 330,000 in the Company by means of an 34 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S acquisition of ordinary shares as part of, or alongside, the board of directors of a company with a premium the offer of shares conducted in conjunction with the IPO listing should appoint one of the Non-Executive at the offer price of 225p per share the Offer Price.
Directors as a Senior Independent Director to provide Geoff took up this offer at the time of the IPO and a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an agreed to acquire 146,666 ordinary shares and this has intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
entitled him, on each of the second and third The Senior Independent Director should be available anniversaries of the date of the completion of the IPO, to to shareholders if they have concerns, when contact make further investments of 330,000 in the Company through the normal channels of the Chief Executive by purchasing a further 146,666 ordinary shares at the Officer has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is Offer Price.
Geoffs entitlement to make such purchases inappropriate.
Octavia Morley has been appointed as the is conditional upon and subject to his remaining as Senior Independent Director of the Company and has Chairman of the Company on the relevant dates.
considerable experience of acting as an independent Non-Executive Director having been an independent In addition, Geoff Cooper was, after completion of the Non-Executive Director of John Menzies plc since 2006.
IPO, appointed as an adviser to Charterhouse, one of the Companys shareholders through the Charterhouse BOARD RESPONSIBILITY Funds.
Geoffs potential conflict of interest with the Following completion of the IPO, the Company has Company, through this role with Charterhouse, was established a clear division of responsibilities between approved by the Board on the basis that he has no the respective responsibilities of the Non-Executive involvement in any decisions by Charterhouse in Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
In general connection with its shareholding in the Company.
terms, the Non-Executive Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive is Notwithstanding the matters described above in responsible for running the Groups business on a relation to Geoff Coopers share options and his role as day-to-day basis.
an adviser to Charterhouse, the Board considered Geoff to be independent on appointment.
This clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, when taken Appointee of Charterhouse Funds - Graeme Coulthard together with the schedule of matters which the Board Pursuant to a relationship agreement Relationship has reserved for its own consideration, ensures that no Agreement that was entered into on 15 May 2014 one person has unlimited and unchecked power to between the Company and the Charterhouse Funds that make decisions that may have a material impact on the governed and regulated the relationship between the Group as a whole.
The matters reserved for the Board Charterhouse Funds and the Company following and, where appropriate, its committees include: completion of the IPO, the Company agreed with the responsibility for the overall leadership of the Company Charterhouse Funds that they may appoint one Nonand setting the Companys values and standards: Executive Director to the Board for so long as the approval of the Groups strategic aims and objectives: Charterhouse Funds and or any of their associates, when taken together hold 20% or more of the voting rights changes to the Groups capital structure: over the Companys ordinary shares.
The Charterhouse major changes to the Groups corporate structure Funds nominated Graeme Coulthard as their including, but not limited to, acquisitions and representative and he was appointed accordingly as a disposals of shares which are material relative to the Non-Executive Director of the Board.
For further details size of the Group: of the Relationship Agreement, see the Directors Report on page 69.
At the time it was entered into the Directors approval of major capital projects which involve believed that the terms of the Relationship Agreement material expenditure whether capital or otherwise : would enable the Company to carry on its business ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal independently of the Charterhouse Funds.
Following the control and risk management: sale by the Charterhouse Funds of certain of their ordinary shares, resulting in them holding less than 20% of ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders the voting rights over the Companys ordinary shares, the based on a mutual understanding of objectives: Relationship Agreement has terminated and Graeme has approval of financial reporting, dividend policy and resigned as a Director.
significant changes in accounting policies and practices: The Board considers all of the other Non-Executive Board membership and senior appointments within Directors, other than Graeme Coulthard, as independent the Group: non-executive directors within the meaning of the UK Corporate Governance Code and free from any business determining the remuneration policy for the or other relationships that are likely to interfere with the Directors, Company Secretary and other members of exercise of their independent judgement.
the senior management team: and appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Senior Independent Director Octavia Morley Groups major professional advisers.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD ATTENDANCE In the period between completion of the IPO and the end of this year, the Board held six meetings and various Board committee meetings were also held with attendance as follows: Board Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Meetings Committee Committee Committee Director Role 6 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman and Chair of Nomination Committee 5 2 2 2 Octavia Morley Senior Independent Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee 6 2 2 2 David Stead Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit and Risk Committee 5 2 2 2 1 Paul McCrudden Independent Non-Executive Director 1 1 2 Graeme Coulthard Non-Executive Director 6 Richard Hayes Chief Executive Officer 6 Darren Bryant Chief Financial Officer 6 1.
BOARD ACTIVITIES Board meetings are structured to ensure they focus on key strategic and operational matters that are affecting the business as well as on consideration of any decisions that are within the matters reserved for the Board examples of which are set out below.
Given the shortened time period between completion of the IPO and the end of the current year, the Board only met six times during the year but it intends to meet at least eight times per year with additional meetings as required.
Following its establishment at the time of the IPO, the Board agreed a schedule of matters for discussion at Board meetings for the remainder of this year and, going forwards, a similar schedule will be agreed in advance of each financial year.
This schedule currently includes regular reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer on the operational and financial performance of the Group together with regular feedback from the Non-Executive Directors on their engagement with the business.
It also includes a rolling agenda of other key operational, strategic, governance and risk topics which is regularly updated to ensure the Board is responsive to the operational and strategic issues affecting the business.
The key topics discussed by the Board in the period since completion of the IPO were: Strategy Performance Governance Product and strategic initiatives Review of store rollout programme Group business continuity plan Competitor activity review Design Studio review Governance and legal updates Republic of Ireland EPOS rollout review Risk review Online strategy and development Sales analysis Review of reserved matters SAYE scheme Market review Post-IPO review Bank deposit strategy Investor relations programme Dividend policy Board and committee business plan All Directors receive papers in advance of Board meetings including updates from the senior management team covering those parts of the business they are responsible for and which monitor achievement against the Groups key performance indicators, both financial and strategic.
Members of the Groups senior management team are also regularly invited to present at Board meetings so that the Groups Non-Executive Directors remain informed of key developments within the Group.
The Board measures the time spent on strategy, governance and performance at each meeting.
Over the year, the majority of our time was spent on strategy, followed by performance and governance, which the Board considers to be appropriate.
3 36 6 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken Card Factorys investor website is also updated by the Company Secretary and circulated for approval.
with news and information including this Annual The minutes record actions, decisions and deadlines Report which sets out our strategy and performance arising out of the topics discussed and a rolling list of together with our plans for future growth actions accompanies the minutes for each Board www.
This enables the Board to monitor the progress with each action by those responsible on a SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS regular basis.
Details of the Groups significant shareholders and of shareholder voting rights are set out in the Directors INVESTOR RELATIONS Report on page 69.
Following completion of the IPO, the Board recognises the importance of explaining financial results and key NED MEETINGS strategic and operational developments in the business The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors to the Companys shareholders and understanding met once in the year without Executive Directors being any shareholder concerns.
The Board regularly present and they intend to continue to meet regularly communicates with shareholders and, as part of the to ensure that any concerns can be raised and IPO process, the Company met regularly with analysts discussed outside formal Board meetings.
The Senior and shareholders and such meetings will continue.
Independent Director will also attend these sessions A summary of the Groups principal investor relations where possible and, if required, will discuss any related activities following the IPO is set out below: important matters with the other independent NonExecutive Directors.
It is important to the Group that all results presentations following the publication of its Directors understand external views of the Group.
interim and preliminary results for this financial year: meetings with investors throughout the year: The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors investor and analysts days at the Groups regularly have informal meetings with the Executive headquarters: and Directors and other members of the senior regular investor and analysts calls.
management team in the business, often at a store location or at the Groups head office.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have overall responsibility for investor relations.
They BOARD COMMITTEES are currently supported by the Companys retained As envisaged by the UK Corporate Governance Code, financial PR advisers, MHP Communications, and its the Board has established three committees of the corporate brokers, UBS, who help organise Board: an Audit and Risk Committee, a Nomination presentations and visits to the Groups operations and Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
If the need stores for analysts and shareholders.
should arise, the Board may set up additional committees.
The formal reporting of the Groups full and half yearly results has been and will continue to be a combination The terms of reference of each of these committees of presentations, group calls and meetings and one-tocan be found on Card Factorys investor website one meetings in a variety of locations where we have www.
com and are available on shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief request from the Company Secretary.
Financial Officer have and will continue to report back to the Board after any investor related events and also AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE ensure that the Board is kept regularly informed of The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in feedback from analysts and shareholders.
The Groups discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial brokers also provide feedback after the full and reporting, external and internal audits and controls, half-year results announcements and, as appropriate, including reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the other investor-related events to inform the Board Groups annual and interim financial statements, about investor views.
reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the All the Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the appointment of external auditors, overseeing the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to Groups relationship with its external auditors, reviewing meet with major shareholders, if they wish to raise issues the effectiveness of the external audit process, separately from the arrangements described above.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control review function and risk management systems, The Company also plans to communicate with whistleblowing and fraud systems.
The ultimate shareholders through the Annual General Meeting, at responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual which the Chairman will give an account of the progress Report and Accounts and the half-yearly reports of the business over the last year and a review of remains with the Board.
The Audit and Risk Committee current issues, and will provide the opportunity for will give due consideration to laws and regulations, the shareholders to ask questions.
All Directors will be provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and available at the Annual General Meeting.
the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 Corporate Governance Report continued The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that relation to remuneration and is responsible for an audit committee should comprise at least three preparing an annual remuneration report for approval members who are Independent Non-Executive by the Companys members at its Annual General Directors, and that at least one member should have Meeting.
recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit and Risk Committee is currently chaired by David Stead, and Non-Executive Directors and the Chairmans fees are its other members are Octavia Morley and from 1 determined by the full Board.
Geoff Cooper was a member of the Audit and Risk Committee in the period The UK Corporate Governance Code provides that a between its formation at the time of the IPO and remuneration committee should comprise at least three 24 February 2015.
Although Geoffs inclusion as a members who are Independent Non-Executive member of the Audit and Risk Committee at the time of Directors, free from any relationship or circumstance its formation, was not technically compliant with the UK which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, Corporate Governance Code, the Directors believed affect their judgement and that a chairman of the board that the Company was compliant with the spirit of the of directors may also be a member provided he is UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors consider considered independent on appointment.
The that David Stead has recent and relevant financial Remuneration Committee is chaired by Octavia Morley, experience.
In the period between the completion of and its other members are Geoff Cooper, David Stead the IPO and 31 January 2015 the Audit and Risk and from 1 December 2014 Paul McCrudden.
Although Committee met twice and, in future, will meet no fewer the inclusion of the Chairman Geoff Cooper as a than three times a year.
member of the Remuneration Committee at the time of its formation, was not technically compliant with the UK The Audit and Risk Committee has taken appropriate Corporate Governance Code, the Directors believed steps to ensure that the Companys Auditors are that the Company was compliant with the spirit of the independent of the Company and obtained written UK Corporate Governance Code.
In the period between confirmation from the Companys Auditors that they the completion of the IPO and 31 January 2015, the comply with guidelines on independence issued by the Remuneration Committee met twice and, in future, will relevant accountancy and auditing bodies.
meet not less than twice a year.
The Audit and Risk Committee has access to sufficient In preparation for and in the period since the IPO, the resources to carry out its duties, including the services Board and the Remuneration Committee have of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary employed Kepler Associates, a consulting agency which and the Groups internal audit function.
Independent specialises in executive remuneration, to advise and external legal and professional advice can also be taken assist in formulating and introducing a sustainable by the Audit and Risk Committee if it believes it remuneration policy.
Kepler Associates, who were necessary to do so.
appointed by the Board, also provide remuneration advice to the Group.
Kepler Associates do not provide The Audit and Risk Committee chair will be available at any other services to the Group.
Annual General Meetings of the Company to respond to questions from shareholders on the activities of the The Remuneration Committees terms of reference, Audit and Risk Committee.
which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are published on Card Factorys investor The Audit and Risk Committees terms of reference, website www.
com, comply with which are available on request from the Company the Code.
Secretary and are published on Card Factorys investor website www.
com, comply with NOMINATION COMMITTEE the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE composition and make-up of the Board and any The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in committees of the Board.
It is also responsible for determining its responsibilities in relation to periodically reviewing the Boards structure and remuneration, including making recommendations to identifying potential candidates to be appointed as the Board on the Companys policy on executive Directors or committee members as the need may arise.
remuneration, setting the over-arching principles, The Nomination Committee is responsible for parameters and governance framework of the Groups evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and remuneration policy and determining the individual experience and the size, structure and composition of remuneration and benefits package of each of the the Board and committees of the Board, retirements Companys Executive Directors, its Company Secretary and appointments of additional and replacement and other members of the Groups senior management directors and committee members and will make team.
The Remuneration Committee will also ensure appropriate recommendations to the Board on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in such matters.
38 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that a whole.
Thereafter evaluation will be undertaken on an a majority of the members of a nomination committee annual basis and the Board will, every third year, as should be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, Nomination Committee is chaired by Geoff Cooper, and engage with an external agency to assist in the process.
its other members are Octavia Morley, David Stead and from 1 December 2014 Paul McCrudden.
The Directors CONFLICTS OF INTEREST therefore believe that the Company is in compliance The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In the period company to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts between the completion of the IPO and 31 January of interest of individual Directors where the Articles of 2015, the Nomination Committee met twice and, in Association of the company contain an enabling future, will meet not less than once a year.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Board this authority subject to the following The Nomination Committees terms of reference, which safeguards: are available on request from the Company Secretary Directors who have an interest in matters under and are published on Card Factorys investor website discussion at a Board meeting must declare that www.
com, comply with interest and abstain from voting: and the Code.
only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of TRAINING AND INDUCTION interest and, in taking that decision, the Directors It is important to the Board that Non-Executive must act in a way they consider, in good faith, Directors have the ability to influence and challenge would be most likely to promote the success of appropriately so that the Board and the Group, as a the Company.
whole, can maximise the benefit they derive from their business knowledge and experience.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored All Directors are required to disclose any actual or induction on joining the Board, including meeting potential conflicts to the Board and the following other members of the Board, the senior management existing conflicts have been considered and approved: team and other key members of staff and the Graeme Coulthard is a Partner in Charterhouse Groups advisers.
The induction includes visits to Capital Partners LLP which, through the the Groups stores, Head Office, its Design Studio, Charterhouse Funds, is a significant shareholder in Printcraft the Groups print facility and the the Company.
It is pursuant and subject to the terms headquarters of its online subsidiary, Getting Personal of the Relationship Agreement details of which are www.
set out in the Directors Report on page 69 that Graeme was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Throughout the year, all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Following the disposal by the have continued to visit stores both informally and Charterhouse Funds of some of their ordinary shares together with members of the senior management team in the Company, they now hold an interest and feedback is given at the following Board meeting.
representing, in aggregate, 17.8% of the total voting rights in the Company.
Accordingly, the Relationship New Directors are also given the opportunity to review Agreement has automatically terminated under its information about the Group including Board and terms and Graham has resigned from his position as a Committee papers and strategy documentation which Director of the Company on 3 February 2015: and they may find useful in preparing for their role.
Geoff Cooper is an adviser in a professional capacity The Groups Company Secretary and General Counsel to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
This conflict periodically reports to the Board on any new legal, was authorised on the basis that Geoff must not be regulatory and governance developments that affect involved in any decisions relating to Charterhouse the Group and, where necessary, actions are agreed.
Capital Partners LLPs shareholding through the Charterhouse Funds in the Company.
Please see the Directors biographies on pages 30 and 31 for details of the skills and experience of There were no other matters disclosed that are each Director.
considered by the Board to give rise to a potential conflict of interest.
Any conflicts are considered by the EVALUATION Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the As the Board has only been in existence for a relatively Board minutes and reviewed annually by the Board.
short period of time, an evaluation of performance has not yet been undertaken.
The first full internal The Board considers that its procedures to approve evaluation is scheduled for later this year and will assess conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest the effectiveness of the Chairman, individual Directors, are operating effectively.
the standing committees of the Board and the Board as Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Corporate Governance Report continued APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act All Directors have service agreements or letters of 2006.
For further details see the Notice of Annual appointment in place and the details of their terms General Meeting which accompanies this report.
are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 58.
The service agreements and ADVICE, INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE letters of appointment are available for inspection All Directors have access to the advice and services of at the Companys registered office during normal the Company Secretary.
In addition Directors may seek business hours.
legal advice at the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in connection with their duties.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution The Directors of the Company, and the Companys of the Companys shareholders in general meeting, or subsidiaries, have the benefit of a third-party indemnity by the Board so long as the Director stands down and provision, as defined by section 236 of the Companies offers him or herself for election at the next Annual Act 2006, in the Companys Articles of Association.
In General Meeting of the Company.
The Articles also addition, Directors and Officers of the Company and its provide that each Director must stand down and offer subsidiaries are covered by Directors and Officers him or herself for re-election by shareholders at the liability insurance as well as Prospectus liability Annual General Meeting at least every 3 years.
The UK insurance which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Corporate Governance Code recommends that Directors in the performance of their duties or powers directors of companies in the FTSE 350 index should be in connection with the issue of the Prospectus in subject to annual re-election.
The Company intends to relation to the IPO.
Until his resignation on 3 February comply with this recommendation.
2015, Graeme Coulthard Non-Executive Director had the benefit of these policies.
No amount was paid under Directors may be removed by a special resolution of any of these indemnities or insurances during the year shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which other than the applicable insurance premiums.
special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles of Association of the ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Company also provide that the office of a Director shall The Companys Articles of Association can only be be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being a amended by a special resolution of its shareholders in a Director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve general meeting, in accordance with the Companies that his or her office be vacated if he or she is of Act 2006. unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may GOVERNANCE AND RISK also resign from the Board.
The Nomination Committee The Board, as a whole, takes overall responsibility for makes recommendations to the Board on the ensuring that the Company has a continuous process in appointment and removal of Directors.
place to identify, evaluate and manage any significant risks that may affect the achievement of the Groups In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, strategic and operational objectives.
Given the nature all Directors will retire from the Board and offer of our business and our operating model, we do not themselves for re-election at the Annual General have a separate Risk Committee.
Our Audit and Risk Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors will also be subject to Committee oversees our risk management framework a separate vote by shareholders independent of the as part of its activities.
Charterhouse Funds as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The key elements of the process which has been established by the Group to identify, evaluate and POWERS OF DIRECTORS manage any significant risks are as follows: The business of the Company is managed by the Board, the Board and the senior management team take a which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, leadership role in managing risk within the business subject to the requirements of the Companies Act and look to embed the principles of sound risk 2006, the Articles of Association of the Company and management in the teams they are responsible any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, for managing: the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority responsibility for monitoring and managing risks, in accordance with the Code and these set out matters which are assessed in terms of impact and likelihood, which are reserved to the Board or committees and the identified in the Groups risk register on a day-to-day powers and duties of the Chairman and the Chief basis is given to the relevant members of the Groups Executive Officer respectively.
senior management team who then provide regular updates to the Groups Executive Directors.
In the At the Annual General Meetings of the Company, the event there is a change in their assessment of the Board will seek authority to issue shares and to buy impact the risk may have on the Group or they back and reissue shares.
Any shares bought back would identify a new risk which the Group may face, the either be held in treasury, cancelled or sold in Groups risk register is updated accordingly: 40 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S the Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the The Groups system of internal control can be Groups risk register and gives detailed consideration summarised as follows: to those risks which have been identified as key risks affecting the Group and the actions being taken and Board processes in place to mitigate them: Takes collective responsibility for internal controls the Board carries out a review of the key risks Reserves certain matters that can only be decided affecting the Group twice a year as well as assessing upon by the Board whether the Group is striking an appropriate balance Oversees the control framework in place setting out between its appetite for risk and the achievement of responsibilities its strategic goals: and Approves key policies and procedures certain key risks, for example, competitor activity Monitors development and performance and business strategy are additionally the subject Audit and Risk Committee of separate and regular detailed discussions at Oversees effectiveness of internal control framework Board meetings and meetings of the senior Receives reports from external auditors management team.
Agrees audit strategy Approves internal audit programme The Board collectively recognise that the continuous Receives reports generated through the internal audit assessment and control of risk are fundamental to the programme Group achieving its strategic and operational objectives Senior Management Team and the Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure that the risk management framework evolves with the Responsible for operating within the control business and the trading environment in which the framework Group operates.
Reviews and monitors compliance with policies and procedures The risk management framework is designed to Recommends changes to controls policies where manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to needed achieve strategic objectives and can provide only Monitors performance reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Internal Audit Function material misstatement or loss.
Focus on cash losses and fraud in stores The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee have Risk Assessors Operational Audit Team reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk Reviews compliance with certain internal procedures management framework and the Companys risk in stores and at other locations register and their alignment with the Companys Co-sourced internal audit function strategic objectives in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for the period ended Deloitte LLP 31 January 2015 and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board considered the Specific elements of the current internal control key risks and relevant mitigating actions and framework include: determined that they were acceptable for a retail a list of matters specifically reserved for Board approval, business of the size and complexity as that operated by examples of which are set out above on page 35: the Group.
clear structures and accountabilities for colleagues, INTERNAL CONTROL AND AUDIT well understood policies and procedures and Overall responsibility for the system of internal control budgeting and review processes all of which the and reviewing its effectiveness lies with the Board.
As Executive Directors are closely involved with: highlighted above, KPMG LLP carried out a every member of the senior management team comprehensive review of our internal controls prior to having clear responsibilities and operating within completion of the IPO and, in the period since then, the defined policies and procedures covering such areas Group has continued to assess the performance of its as capital expenditure, treasury operations, financial system of internal controls as well as implementing targets, human resources management, customer some of the recommendations KPMG LLP made in service and health and safety: terms of further enhancing our control environments.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Corporate Governance Report continued the Executive Directors and the senior management DISCLOSURES UNDER DTR 7.2.
6R team monitoring compliance with these policies and The disclosures the Company is required to make procedures and, in addition, regularly reviewing pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6R are contained in the Directors performance against budget, analysis of variances, Report on pages 69 and 70. major business issues, key performance indicators and the accuracy of business forecasting: and SHARE DEALING CODE The Company has adopted, with effect from the a continuous review programme of store compliance completion of the IPO, a code of securities dealings in by the internal audit team as regards financial relation to the ordinary shares which is based on, and is procedures in stores, by risk assessors working in at least as rigorous as, the Model Code as published in the health and safety team and by other teams within the Listing Rules.
The code adopted applies to the the Group.
Directors, Senior Managers and to other relevant employees of the Company.
The Group has appointed Deloitte LLP to help supplement the valuable work being performed by the ANTI-BRIBERY Groups current internal audit function, which is focused The Company has implemented internal procedures and on reducing financial losses across the Groups store measures including the provision of an Antiportfolio with a primary focus on cash losses.
This Corruption and Bribery Policy designed to ensure focused approach is a reflection of the relative compliance by it and other members of the Group with importance to the Group of controlling cash losses the UK Bribery Act 2010 as amended.
given that a significant proportion of transactions in our stores are conducted in cash and the low relative unit WHISTLEBLOWING value of stock.
It is also a reflection of the Groups The Group is committed to conducting its business with existing controls and procedures and the close honesty and integrity, with high standards of corporate involvement of the Executive Directors in the day-togovernance and in compliance with legislation and day operation of the business.
We expect all staff to maintain such high standards but recognise that all During the year, certain other internal audit activities organisations face the risk of things going wrong from were carried out by internal teams, reporting to the time to time, or of unknowingly harbouring illegal or Board and the Audit and Risk Committee.
covered included business continuity planning and the Groups IT strategy, governance and controls.
It is We recognise that a culture of openness and intended that some of these activities will also be the accountability is essential in order to prevent such subject of review by Deloitte LLP as part of the situations occurring, or to address them when they do programme of internal audit activities they have been occur.
We maintain a whistleblowing policy that is appointed to assist us with.
designed to encourage colleagues to report such situations without fear of repercussions or The Audit and Risk Committee has responsibility for recriminations provided that they are acting in good overseeing the Groups system of internal controls and faith.
By having early knowledge of any wrong doing or of the internal audit programme and receives the report illegal or unethical behaviour, we improve our ability to of the external auditor following the annual intervene and stop it.
The policy sets out how any statutory audit.
concerns can be raised and the response that can be expected from the Company and provides staff with the The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the assurance that they can do this in complete confidence.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code This report was reviewed and approved by the Board for the period ended 31 January 2015 and up to the date on 24 March 2015. of approving the Annual Report and Accounts and confirmed that they are satisfactory.
Geoff Cooper Please note that internal control systems such as this Chairman are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 24 March 2015 provide only reasonable and not absolute, assurance against material accounting misstatement or loss.
Where any significant failures or weaknesses are identified from the systems of internal control, actions is taken to remedy these.
42 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
