S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S Nomination Committee Report This report provides details of the role of the COMMITTEES FOCUS FOR THE FUTURE Nomination Committee, the work it has undertaken Although the Board has not yet adopted formal policies during the year and details of how it intends to carry in these regards it understands and acknowledges: out its responsibilities as the Company begins its life as the importance of developing a formal succession plan a premium listed company.
for the Board that addresses the needs of the business over the medium to longer term and the importance of ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE maintaining the appropriate balance of skills and The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by experience across both the executive management keeping the composition of the Board under review and team and among the Non-Executive Directors: and by conducting a rigorous and transparent process when that the Groups best interests are served by ensuring new appointments to the Board are made.
that the individuals who lead the Group represent a range of skills, experiences, backgrounds and A more detailed explanation of the Nomination perspectives, including gender but who at all times Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance are most suitable people for their roles.
For example, Report on page 38 and the Committees terms of in the process which led to Pauls appointment, we reference, which are published on Card Factorys met an approximately equal number of male and investor website www.
comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
GENDER AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY MEMBERSHIP Our policy is that the Board should always be of mixed The Nomination Committee is currently chaired by Geoff gender and ethnically diverse but we feel that quotas are Cooper, and its other members are Octavia Morley, David not appropriate as they are likely to lead to compromised Stead and from 1 December 2014 Paul McCrudden.
decisions on Board membership, quality and size.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer We will however seek to ensure that specific effort is and Graeme Coulthard Non-Executive Director attended made to bring forward female candidates and those the two meetings held this year by invitation and the from a range of ethnic backgrounds for Board Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
appointments and we will monitor the Groups approach to people development to ensure that it MEETINGS continues to enable talented individuals, from both As currently constituted, the Committee met twice during genders and from all ethnic groups, to enjoy career the year with details of attendance at this meeting set out progression activities within the Group.
in the Corporate Governance Report on page 36.
Details of the gender balance within the Group are set out COMMITTEE ACTIVITY IN 2014 15 in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 28.
The Committees main activity during the year was to approve the appointment of Paul McCrudden as an BOARD EVALUATION Independent Non-Executive Director.
Paul is EMEA Head As the Board has only been in existence for a relatively of Content Marketing at Twitter and has a wealth of digital short period of time, an evaluation of performance has and marketing experience that will be particularly valuable not yet been undertaken.
The first full evaluation is as the Group continues to develop its online activities scheduled for later this year and will assess the alongside the physical store portfolio.
effectiveness of the Chairman, individual Directors, the standing committees of the Board and the Board as a In appointing Paul, we engaged a specialist recruitment whole.
Thereafter evaluation will be undertaken on an firm, DRP, with a brief to shortlist candidates with skills annual basis and the Board will, every third year, as and experience that would complement the required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, development of our online offering, which is one of the engage with an external agency to assist in the process.
four pillars of our growth strategy.
DRP have no other connection with the Company.
TENURE AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Additionally the Committee met to consider an initial all Directors will seek re-election at the AGM.
assessment of senior management succession.
This will form the basis of the Groups formal succession planning This report was reviewed and approved by the Board that is to be further developed in the coming year.
Geoff Cooper Chairman of the Nomination Committee 24 March 2015 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67
