Governance Corporate Governance report Division of responsibilities Leadership A clear division of responsibilities is important for the effective working of the Board and to ensure that no one individual has unfettered power The Board of decision.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive work together The Board as a whole continues to take ownership of effective to provide effective and complementary stewardship.
The roles of leadership and the long-term success of the Company.
The the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent management and governance framework, which the Board has Non-Executive Director are clearly defined as summarised below.
implemented to support the Companys long-term growth objectives, is set out on page 44.
The diverse range of skills and leadership Chairman experience offered by the Non-Executive Directors means that they Responsible for the composition and capability of the Board are well qualified to scrutinise performance, assess the Groups risk Responsible for the effective leadership and governance of the Board management and control processes, provide constructive challenge Ensures Board and Committee meetings are used effectively by and to support the Executive Directors.
Biographical details for each focusing on key areas and promoting a culture of openness and of the Directors together with their Board responsibilities are set out healthy debate on pages 42 and 43.
Maintains regular contact with the Group Chief Executive providing advice, counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive as and The Board has 10 scheduled meetings during the year: additional when appropriate meetings are arranged if required.
The Board committee meetings Works with the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary to are scheduled around the regular Board meetings.
establish the Boards 12-month rolling agenda Leads assessment of the effectiveness of the Board and each Director.
In order to facilitate increased understanding of our overseas businesses amongst Board members and to provide local employees Group Chief Executive and management with access to the Board, a Board meeting is held Responsible for providing effective leadership to the Company each year at an overseas operation.
Identification and analysis of strategic options for growth in shareholder value Decision making Implementation of operating plans and budgets required to deliver Directors are required to attend each Board meeting and meetings of the agreed strategy any Committee of which they are a member.
In addition, other members Works closely with the Group Finance Director to ensure that the of the senior management team and the Groups advisers may, by Group has in place an appropriate capital structure and risk invitation, attend meetings to address specific agenda items.
There is a management and internal control processes formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which is reviewed Works closely with the Group Finance Director to ensure that regularly to ensure that it remains current.
Matters reserved for the the Group maintains effective relationships and communications Board include the items summarised in the table below: with investors Risk management, Responsible for delivery of ongoing operational performance Governance Strategy and direction accountability and control against targets and continuous improvement in performance on safety Review of Approval of strategy Approval of and sustainability.
governance and annual budgets financial statements, arrangements Authorisation of other updates Senior Independent NonExecutive Director Appointments acquisition and to market and Available as the alternative point of contact for shareholders where to and removals disposal activity recommendations communication through the Executive Directors or the Chairman from the Board Affirmation of risk on dividends may not be appropriate Terms of reference management Approval of Act as a sounding board for the Chairman and alternate Board for and strategies and authority levels, contact for other Directors where appropriate membership of risk appetite financial and Would chair Board meetings in the absence of the Chairman Board committees treasury policies Leads the annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Chairman.
Review of internal control and risk The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Board and each management of its Committees.
The Chairman maintains contact with the Senior Approval of Health Independent Non-Executive Director and the Company Secretary in & Safety policies relation to Board and governance matters.
In addition, the Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive In addition, The Chief Executives Leadership Team CELT meets on Directors present.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director also a monthly basis.
The CELT, led by Richard Howson, is responsible holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman for strategy development, operational and financial management and present at least once a year.
the executive management of the Groups businesses.
In addition to Mr Howson, the CELT comprises the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Managing Directors of selected Business Units, the Group Development and Strategy Director, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary and Director of Legal Services.
The Executive Directors and the Carillion subsidiary companies operate within clearly defined limits of authority delegated by the Board and any matters outside these limits are referred to the Board for consideration.
Arrangements in relation to Directors indemnification and the management of conflicts are provided in the Directors report on page 74.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Corporate Governance report continued Appointments to the Board are managed by the Nominations Committee Effectiveness see page 50 for the Nominations Committees 2015 report.
In line with our succession planning, during 2015 there were two changes Board composition to the composition of the Board.
Keith Cochrane was appointed as an The Board and its Committees continue to benefit from an appropriate Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company and in September balance of expertise, experience, independence and knowledge of the succeeded Steve Mogford as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Company and its business sectors.
At 31 December 2015, the Board Steve Mogford, who completed nine years as a member of the Board comprised two Executive and five Non-Executive Directors.
in September 2015, retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
Ceri Powell, who joined the Board in 2014, is the Executive Vice Changes to the Board since 1 January 2015 are summarised in the President for Global Exploration at Royal Dutch Shell, a customer of, table below: and supplier to, the Group.
However, Dr Powell has not been and is not expected to be involved with any commercial dealings between the Date of Date of Director Position appointment resignation Group and Royal Dutch Shell.
Consequently, the Board confirms that Keith Cochrane Non-Executive Director 2 July 2015 N A the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of management under the guidelines set out in the Steve Mogford Non-Executive Director 5 Sep 2006 31 Dec 2015 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Commitment 71 per cent of Directors are independent All Directors are made aware at the time of appointment of the time commitment required to discharge their Board and Committee Independent 71% responsibilities effectively.
There is a formal job specification in place for Non-independent 29% the Chairman.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors will be available at the 2016 AGM and can, at other times, be inspected at the Companys registered office, Carillion House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR.
Recognising that external appointments can broaden experience and knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited number of such appointments and retain the fees received for such appointments.
In addition to his role as Group Finance Director, Richard Adam continued to act as a Non-Executive Director of Countrywide Plc and in addition was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Countryside Properties Plc.
Richard Howson does not hold any external appointments.
29 per cent of Directors are female The Board is aware of current external commitments for all of the Male 71% Non-Executive Directors who are also required to discuss any additions Female 29% to these with the Chairman prior to their acceptance of any further external appointments.
Changes to the external commitments of the Non-Executive Directors during 2015 are summarised in the table below: Director 2015 changes to external commitments Keith Cochrane None Andrew Dougal Appointed a director of Victrex plc on 1 March 2015.
Retired as a director of Premier Farnell plc on 16 June 2015 and Creston plc on 30 November 2015.
Philip Green None Alison Horner None Ceri Powell None 60 per cent of NonExecutive Directors have been in role for less All Directors were able to allocate sufficient time to their Board than four years responsibilities during 2015 and this is expected to be the case in 2016.
1-4 years 60% Board meeting attendance 5-9 years 40% The number of scheduled Board meetings attended by each Director together with the number of Board meetings that they were eligible to attend during 2015 and 2014 is summarised in the table below: 2015 2014 Member Attendance Eligibility Percentage Attendance Eligibility Percentage Richard Adam 10 10 100 10 10 100 Keith Cochrane 5 5 100 N A N A N A Andrew Dougal 10 10 100 10 10 100 Philip Green 10 10 100 10 10 100 Alison Horner 10 10 100 9 10 90 Richard Howson 10 10 100 10 10 100 Steve Mogford 10 10 100 10 10 100 Ceri Powell 10 10 100 8 8 100 Keith Cochrane was appointed to the Board on 2 July 2015.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 46 Governance This years overseas meeting was held in Canada and provided Board Minimum Committee members with an opportunity to visit some of our businesses and number of report for Committee Summary of terms of reference meetings 2015 contracts in this country and learn more about our strategy for Canada Nominations Makes recommendations on 1 See page from the local leadership team.
Chaired by: appointments to the Board 50 Philip Green and its Committees Key areas of activity considered at Board meetings during 2015 are Reviews the Groups summarised in the table below: succession arrangements and Area of activity Frequency Agenda item overall Board composition to Review of 1 Group Chief Executives report on safety ensure the balance of skills financial and and operational performance, workand experience remains operational winning, human resources and market appropriate.
Business Reviews and oversees 2 See page 1 Group Finance Directors report on Integrity the development and 51 financial performance, liquidity, investor Chaired by: implementation of the relations, share price performance and Philip Green Groups Ethics and Business supply chain Integrity Policy 1 Reports from the Major Projects Monitors the Groups Committee compliance with relevant legislation such as the 1 Reports on sustainability practice and Bribery Act 2010 and the performance Competition Act 2 Review and approval of latest forecasts Monitors the Groups and budgets communication and training Leadership, 2 Review and approval of the Groups programmes on ethics and governance three-year business plan business integrity.
and strategy 2 Presentations on Group and business Sustainability Reviews and approves 4 See page unit strategy Chaired by: policies, targets and 52 2 Review and approval of acquisition Ceri Powell performance in relation to and disposal activity key sustainability initiatives 2 Review of delegated authorities Reviews and approves 2 Review of policies such as sustainability, the annual Sustainability ethics and business integrity Report prior to publication 2 Appointment of new Director and Monitors legislation and or succession planning regulations that might affect 2 Consideration of reports from the the Group or its stakeholders Board Committees and other matters which could impact corporate reputation 2 Evaluation of the Board and its and the management of Committees any such matters 2 Review of any conflicts of interest Engage with key internal 1 Review of Directors share dealings and external stakeholders Accountability, 2 Review of 2015 half year report and 2014 on key sustainability themes.
control Annual Report and Accounts.
Approval Audit Reviews and reports to the 3 See and risk of final dividend for 2014 and half year Chaired by: Board on the Groups financial pages management dividend for 2015.
Andrew Dougal reporting to investors, internal 53 to 56 2 Review of trading updates issued to controls and risk management the market processes 2 Consideration of reports from the Makes recommendations to Chairman of the Audit Committee on the Board on the appointment internal control and risk management or reappointment of the 2 Consideration of risk management external auditor and monitors procedures and key risks and the effectiveness and uncertainties facing the Group independence of the Relations with 2 Consideration of matters relating to external auditor shareholders the AGM Directs and reviews the work undertaken by the external 2 Consideration of feedback from investors and internal audit functions.
received following release of our results or during routine meetings with Board Remuneration Reviews and advises the 3 See members.
Chaired by: Board on remuneration pages Alison Horner arrangements for the 57 to 72 1 Standing agenda item for all Board meetings.
Chairman, the Executive 2 Item tabled on a periodic basis or as and when necessary.
Directors and their direct reports.
Board Committees To ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, the Board Induction and development delegates certain matters to its Committees, which are required Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on to consider these in accordance with their terms of reference.
joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other duties Occasionally, where it may be more expedient to do so, the Board may and obligations as a director of a listed company.
In addition, all new delegate certain of its powers to a sub-committee on an ad-hoc basis.
Directors receive induction on their appointment covering such matters The terms of reference for each Board Committee are available on as the operation and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the Groups website www.
com investors and summarised the Companys corporate governance procedures.
Directors are also in the following table.
briefed by the Companys external advisers, where appropriate, on changes to legislation, regulation or market practice as well as receiving briefings from business units throughout the year.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Corporate Governance report continued Carillions comprehensive induction Progress against key priorities identified during the 2014 review programme has enabled me to quickly get to Priority Update grips with the structure of the organisation, Supporting senior Non-Executive Directors have continued to management provide effective support to the Executive its operations and associated risks, the culture Directors and other management as appropriate.
This has Addressing specific The Board has continued to work collaboratively supported my role on the Board in this, my business challenges in addressing the challenges and opportunities associated with the Groups operations.
Key first appointment as a Non-Executive Director.
developments during 2015 are covered in the Keith Cochrane Strategic report on pages 1 to 40.
As part of his induction to the Group, Keith Cochrane received For the 2015 evaluation, Lintstock initially engaged with the Chairman or undertook the following activities: and the Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation and subsequently reviewed and reported on the performance of the A briefing on the responsibilities of a director of a public listed company Carillion Board and Committees during the year.
Customised A briefing on Carillions culture, strategy, policies and processes assessments, based on anonymous responses to an online survey, Briefings from senior management and operational leads were undertaken for the Board as a whole and each of its Committees.
Briefings from external advisers such as the corporate brokers Topics addressed included Board composition, effectiveness of Board Site visits to major projects.
and Committee meetings, Committee structure and performance, strategy, succession, performance monitoring, leadership and culture, The Directors are also encouraged to update their skills and knowledge remuneration, relations with shareholders and accountability.
regularly, including in relation to environmental, sustainability and governance matters, and a procedure has been established whereby the The performance of the Chairman and each Director was also reviewed Company Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements in this as part of this evaluation process with the anonymity of respondents respect.
In pursuit of best practice, the Board receives presentations on ensuring an open and frank exchange of views.
The Senior Independent governance and regulatory matters.
The potential requirement for any Non-Executive Director led the evaluation of the Chairmans specific training in the light of new statutory or governance regulations effectiveness.
At the November 2015 Board meeting, the Directors is kept under regular review.
reviewed the results of the evaluation, which confirmed that the Board, each of its Committees and the Directors continue to be highly effective.
Information and support The evaluation confirmed that the key priorities identified as part of the The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the 2015 evaluation, including those in relation to succession management, financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Group development delivery of strategy, managing around political change and as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, markets, Health management of pension liabilities, had been effectively managed during & Safety, sustainability and other relevant issues.
Some of the key strengths highlighted by the 2015 evaluation included the organisation of the Board, the high quality of Board business The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Board and its and the excellent relationships between Directors.
Prior to each Board or Committee meeting, the Company on-boarding for new Non-Executive Directors was also rated highly Secretary ensures that the relevant papers are made available to all as was the Boards focus on strategy.
Directors five working days in advance of the meeting.
Since late 2010, the Board has used a secure electronic portal to receive Board papers.
The key priorities for the Board in 2016 were identified as follows: The portal provides information in a timely and secure manner, enabling the Directors to receive Board papers quickly and to access Overseeing the development of the Groups strategy for growth them via tablet devices, wherever they may be.
Developing the Boards effectiveness and managing membership succession successfully All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible Supporting the development of the senior management team.
to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Board approves the appointment The Board intends to continue to comply with the UK Corporate and removal of the Company Secretary.
Governance Code guidance that the evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Board and Committee performance evaluation Directors will submit themselves for election or re-election at the The Board undertakes a formal review of its effectiveness and that Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2016.
All of the Directors of its Committees on an annual basis, with the evaluation being proposed for election or re-election have been subject to formal conducted by an external facilitator every three years.
The 2015 performance evaluation and continue to be effective members of the performance evaluation was conducted by Linstock Limited, an Board.
The Chairman has confirmed that each of the Directors remains independent corporate advisory firm.
committed to the role and to the time required for Board and, where applicable, Committee meetings and any other duties required of them.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 48 Governance Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting AGM Accountability The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and encourages their participation.
Shareholders are invited to attend the AGM each year The Board remains committed to ensuring that its communications with and to ask questions.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Business Integrity, shareholders continue to present a fair, balanced and understandable Nominations, Remuneration and Sustainability Committees are present assessment of the Company and its prospects.
Both the Audit at that meeting to answer questions on the work of the Committees.
Committee and the Board received drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts to facilitate review and to provide an opportunity for challenge Investors by type and discussion.
84 Institutional 84% The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the Private 16% significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Groups business are summarised on pages 28 to 31 of the Strategic report.
The Board has an Audit Committee which monitors and reports on the Groups risk management systems.
The Audit Committee also considers how the 16 Board should apply corporate reporting and internal control principles and is responsible for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
The 2015 report of the Audit Committee Investors by geography is set out on pages 53 to 56.
72 UK 72% Remuneration Europe 7% North America 16% Details relating to the Companys policy on remuneration together Rest of the World 5% with the level and components of remuneration available to the Companys Directors are provided in the Remuneration Committees 16 report on pages 57 to 72.
7 5 Dialogue with shareholders The Board is committed to ensuring that we continue to engage Investor concentration effectively with our shareholders to facilitate a mutual understanding of objectives.
Our Group Corporate Affairs Director, who reports to 93 Percentage of issued share capital the Group Finance Director, is responsible for managing our investor held by: 74 relations programme.
The Executive Directors and the Director of Group Corporate Affairs meet regularly with representatives of major 50 Top 10 investors 50% shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of objectives.
Top 30 investors 74% Top 100 investors 93% Where appropriate, meetings and requests for information are also Other investors 7% 7 facilitated with other shareholders and prospective shareholders.
Appropriate governance around disclosure of information is maintained throughout our interaction with shareholders.
The details of these During the year under review, the AGM was held in May 2015 with meetings are reported to the Board and, in addition, the Board also each member of the Board in attendance to answer questions.
Notice receives formal investor feedback provided through the Groups corporate of the AGM and related papers were sent out more than 20 working brokers following the release of our half-year and full-year results.
The days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions were tabled on all Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available substantively separate issues.
The Groups 2014 Remuneration Report for meetings with representatives of major shareholders as required.
was approved by 98.9 per cent of the votes cast and its 2014 Annual Report and Accounts were approved by 99.8 per cent of the votes cast.
During 2015, we maintained an extensive investor relations programme.
Our half year and full-year results announcements, which involved a The Company complies fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate presentation to analysts, investors and banks, were given by our two Governance Code September 2014 in respect of the notice, content of Executive Directors.
We issued trading updates in July and December, agenda and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of which were followed on the day of the announcements by conference calls all the Board Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting for analysts and investors, hosted by our two Executive Directors.
In May on 4 May 2016 to respond to shareholders questions.
we released on the Regulatory News Service, an AGM statement on trading.
We also continued to offer meetings to institutional investors, both shareholders and non-shareholders, and we continued to hold meetings or conference calls with all institutions that requested them.
In 2015, we met or held conference calls with over 150 institutions, around 40 per cent of which were attended by at least one Executive Director.
Philip Green Chairman 3 March 2016 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
