Governance Report of the Business Integrity Committee Integration of acquired businesses Dear Shareholder, The Group acquired the Outland Group, a Canadian provider of remote site accommodation and associated services, during the first I am pleased to present the Business Integrity Committees report half of 2015.
Our acquisition integration process includes procedures for the year ended 31 December 2015. designed to ensure that the ethics and compliance practices at newly acquired businesses are aligned with those adopted by the Group.
High standards of ethics and business integrity are essential to As part of the Outland Groups integration into the Group, we undertook achieving consistently high standards of corporate governance and an assessment of its existing ethics and compliance policies and service excellence.
The Board has therefore implemented a formal implemented a detailed programme to align these with those adopted ethics and business integrity policy to ensure that the Group conducts by the Group.
This programme included face-to-face training on Ethics, its business to the highest ethical standards.
Business Integrity and Competition laws for the relevant members of the Outland team, with senior management within the business then being Our ethics and business integrity policy sets out the Groups approach tasked to ensure that the key messages from this training continued to be to a number of compliance or ethical issues and the standards and communicated to all employees on a regular basis.
We also undertook a behaviours that all Carillion employees are expected to meet wherever similar alignment and training programme with the Rokstad Corporation in the world we operate.
This policy provides guidance in relation to in Canada following our acquisition of a 60 per cent ownership interest areas such as bribery, fraud and corruption, gifts and hospitality, insider in this business in December 2014. trading, conflicts of interest, ethical procurement, competition law, money laundering, human rights and compliance with general laws and Modern Slavery Act 2015 regulations.
For further details on the Groups Business Integrity Policy We commenced a review of our current policies and procedures to see www.
ensure compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 which came into force in October 2015.
Our initial assessment is that the Group is well The implementation of our ethics and business integrity policy is placed in relation to these regulations, however, in order to ensure overseen by the Business Integrity Committee, and its effectiveness that any potential gaps in our current procedures are addressed, the is reviewed annually by the Board.
Committee has established a Modern Slavery Steering Group, which includes senior representation from each of our five business units.
Membership and attendance at meetings held during the year This Steering Group includes a mix of functional, commercial and ended 31 December 2015 operational expertise and it has been tasked to identify and review Meeting attendance Meeting attendance any new compliance risks associated with the introduction of this new 2015 2014 legislation.
The Steering Group has developed an implementation plan Appointed Eligible Eligible to ensure full compliance with these new regulations is achieved in line Member retired Attended to attend Attended to attend with the timelines set out within the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Philip Green 01.06.11 4 4 2 2 Keith Cochrane 02.07.15 3 3 N A N A Training Andrew Dougal 03.10.11 4 4 2 2 The Ethics and Compliance Office continued to oversee the delivery Alison Horner 01.12.13 4 4 2 2 of the Groups regular compliance training programme during 2015.
Steve Mogford 31.12.15 4 4 1 2 The Group provides employees with face-to-face and online training, dependent upon role and grade, to ensure that employees are aware Ceri Powell 02.04.14 4 4 1 1 of any new developments in Group policy and changes to laws and regulations.
This programme includes training in competition law, ethics, The changes to the Committees composition summarised in the integrity and bribery and corruption.
During 2015, some 860 employees Report of the Nominations Committee on page 50, resulted from the received face-to-face compliance training.
Ongoing refresher training is succession related changes to the Board discussed on page 41.
The mandatory for all senior employees who are also required to complete Group Chief Executive and the Group Compliance Manager are invited an online assessment at least once every three years.
to attend the Committees meetings.
The main activities undertaken by the Committee during 2015 are summarised below.
Key priorities for 2016 During 2016, the Committee will continue to monitor the delivery Our commitment to ethics and compliance of training under the Groups ongoing programme for all senior Following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010, we established an employees and new joiners including those joining as part of the recent Ethics and Compliance Office in 2010.
This Office reviews and monitors acquisition of the Outland Group and ensure that its content remains compliance and aims to ensure that the Groups policies and procedures relevant and up to date.
The Committee will also continue to monitor aimed at maintaining high ethical standards remain effective.
In 2014, our external legal and regulatory developments and ensure these are formal policies and procedures in relation to ethics and integrity were implemented across the Group on a timely basis.
In addition, the externally benchmarked by the Institute of Business Ethics as part of our Committee will closely monitor the work undertaken by the Steering successful application to obtain the Investing in Integrity Charter Mark.
Group established following the introduction of the Modern Slavery This award covers all of our businesses globally and we remain one of Act 2015 and ensure that any gaps in our existing procedures the largest businesses to have been awarded the Charter Mark which are addressed.
We also continue to undertake regular risk assessments in light of external compliance failures to ensure that any Annual evaluation risks highlighted by these are appropriately managed and any lessons As part of the overall Board evaluation process, the Committee learnt addressed within our business.
The Ethics and Compliance Office reviewed its performance for 2015 which confirmed that it continues reports to the Business Integrity Committee on key global compliance be highly effective.
I will be available to answer any questions about risks and functional activity.
thework of the Committee at the AGM on 4 May 2016.
Our values To create a culture in which high standards of ethics and integrity are natural and instinctive, we promote, encourage and reward behaviours that reflect our core values.
We aim to ensure that our values, which are described on page 44, are at the heart of everything we do so that they define how we behave towards our colleagues, our customers, our partners and our suppliers, and how we approach every challenge and opportunity.
Philip Green Chairman 3 March 2016 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
