Governance Report of the Audit Committee Membership and attendance at meetings held during the year Dear Shareholder, ended 31 December 2015 I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the Meeting attendance Meeting attendance 2015 2014 financial year ended 31 December 2015.
During 2015, the Committee Appointed Eligible Eligible has continued to review and report to the Board on the Groups Member retired Attended to attend Attended to attend financial reporting, internal control and risk management processes Andrew Dougal and the performance, independence and effectiveness of the auditor, Chairman 03.10.11 3 3 4 4 KPMG LLP.
This report describes the Committees major areas of Keith Cochrane 02.07.15 2 2 N A N A focus since my last report in March 2015.
Alison Horner 01.12.13 3 3 4 4 During 2015, there were further changes to the composition of the Steve Mogford 31.12.15 3 3 3 4 Committee resulting from changes in Board membership.
In July, I was Ceri Powell 02.04.14 3 3 3 3 delighted to welcome Keith Cochrane to the Committee.
Keith is Chief Executive Officer of The Weir Group PLC and brings with him a wealth To ensure compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate of financial experience, as prior to his current role he served as the Governance Code, Committee membership is limited to Independent Group Finance Director of The Weir Group PLC having previously Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
We also have in attendance at been Finance Director of Stagecoach Group Plc and Director of Group meetings, by invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, Executive Directors, Finance of ScottishPower Plc.
Keith is a member of the Institute of the Group Financial Controller, representatives of both the external auditors Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
His business skills and financial KPMG LLP and the internal auditors Deloitte LLP and the Group Head experience leave him very well placed to support the Committee and I of Risk.
The Committee also meets privately with both the external and look forward to working with him.
As a result of his retirement from the internal auditors.
Board, Steve Mogford stepped down from the Committee in December and I would like to thank Steve for his valuable contribution to the work The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information of the Committee over the years.
necessary to fulfil its duties, call any member of staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee, as and when required, and obtain independent I am also a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of legal, accounting or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, Scotland and previously served as Group Finance Director with a which might be necessary for the fulfilment of its duties.
In addition, I continue to chair one other plc audit committee and I am a member of the Council and the Oversight Board Main activities of the Audit Committee in relation to the year of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
This provides the ended 31 December 2015 Board with the confidence that the Committee continues to meet the UK As summarised above, the Committee met on three occasions in Corporate Governance Codes requirement in relation to recent and 2015.
The table below summarises the agenda items covered at the relevant financial experience.
Feb August Dec The assurance framework required by the Audit Committee is provided Financial reporting and significant by complementary contributions from management reports, internal financial judgements and external audit reports and from risk management reports.
Full-year results and associated announcements Half-year results and associated announcements I continue to hold regular meetings with both the Companys external and internal auditors, Richard Adam, the Group Finance Director and Going concern report Robin Herzberg, the Group Head of Risk, in which key issues relevant External audit to the Committees work are discussed.
In addition, I and my colleagues Review and consideration of the Audit Memorandum on the Committee visit contract operations in both the support services Board representation letter and construction areas of the business in order to maintain a more Evaluation of audit function detailed understanding of the Groups businesses, which together Auditor re-appointment recommendation to the Board with the reports we receive, facilitate the ongoing effective operation Fees for non-statutory audit activities of the Committee.
Year end audit plan update In order to ensure ongoing compliance with regulatory developments, Committee meeting with auditor the Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually.
The Internal audit requirements introduced under The UK Corporate Governance Code Audit report September 2014, which became effective for accounting periods Evaluation of audit function beginning after 1 October 2014 were incorporated into the Committees Audit plan terms of reference in 2014 and consequently there were no significant Peer review plan changes made to the Committees terms of reference during 2015.
Committee meeting with internal audit The Committees terms of reference can be viewed at Other www.
com or a copy obtained on request from the Review of risk management and internal controls Company Secretary.
Review of whistleblowing and fraud reports Annual review of terms of reference Annual evaluation of the Committee Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules In addition to the above, at its meeting in February 2016, the Committee reviewed the Groups financial statements and other relevant disclosures relating to this 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Report of the Audit Committee continued Financial reporting and significant judgements External audit The Committee is responsible for reviewing whether suitable The Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope and results of accounting policies have been adopted and whether management the Groups external audit process and its effectiveness.
During 2015, has made appropriate estimates and judgements in the preparation the Committee continued to monitor the independence and objectivity of the financial statements.
The Committee also keeps under review of the external auditors to ensure that the services provided continued the impact of any actual or expected changes to accounting standards to represent a healthy balance between objectivity and value for money.
applicable to the Group and provides general oversight in relation In addition, in the interests of efficiency and effectiveness, the to the financial policies of the Group.
Committee also ensured that activities undertaken by the internal and external audit functions complemented each other.
The Group reported revenue of 4,586.9 million 2014: 4,071.9 million and an underlying profit before tax of 176.5 million 2014: 172.9 million External audit process for the year ended 31 December 2015.
In August 2015, the Committee During 2015, KPMG LLP KPMG acted as the Companys auditor and reviewed the Groups half-year results and discussed these with the provided certain non-audit services to the Group.
KPMG has indicated external auditor prior to their release.
In February 2016, the Committee its willingness to continue in office and a resolution to reappoint KPMG reviewed the Groups 2015 Annual Report and Accounts to ensure as auditor will be proposed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
compliance with statutory and other regulatory requirements and discussed significant financial reporting issues or areas of judgement Peter Meehan is the Group Audit Partner.
Mr Meehan and members withthe external auditor.
In respect of the financial statements for the of his team attended each of the Committees meetings during 2015. yearended 31 December 2015, the significant issues reviewed and As Chairman of the Committee, I also maintain contact with the Group howthese issues were addressed are summarised below: Audit Partner.
Revenue and margin recognition The scope of the Groups 2015 audit was discussed and approved by Given the nature of the Groups activities, revenue and margin the Committee in August 2015.
Proposed audit fees for 2015 were also recognition continues to be a key area of judgement for management.
reviewed by the Committee prior to their recommendation to the Board Note 32 on page 118 of the financial statements describes the estimation for approval.
KPMG are expected to report to the Committee on any techniques used by management to determine the amount of revenue material issues identified in relation to the Groups reported performance and costs to be recognised in relation to construction and services or any significant breakdown in controls identified during the audit contracts.
A significant proportion of the Committees time is spent process.
The 2015 audit plan was completed in line with the scope reviewing contract judgements given the Companys extensive agreed by the Committee with no significant issues being highlighted portfolio of contracts.
During 2015, the Committee reviewed, through for the Committees attention.
discussions with management and the external auditor, the positions and judgements taken by management on a number of material External auditor effectiveness contracts across the Group.
On the basis of these discussions, the In February 2016, the Committee undertook its annual review of the Committee concluded that the positions and judgements taken in external auditors effectiveness.
This review was based on feedback relation to the contracts reviewed were reasonable.
The Committee received from the Committee members, the Executive Directors and has also continued to monitor the management of cash flows and Business Unit Finance Directors.
This review confirmed that KPMG working capital, in particular receivables and payables, as these are key continued be highly effective in its role as external auditor to the Group areas of importance in relation to the Groups financial performance.
with an overall approval rating of 4.6 out of 5.0.
The Groups finance function also obtains feedback from the operating units and holds a Valuation of goodwill two-way feedback session, which is designed to highlight the key At 31 December 2015, the Group had 1,544.0 million 2014: 1,510.9 strengths of the current process and potential areas for future million of goodwill, being the largest single item included in its balance improvement.
This session confirmed that the audit continues to be sheet.
Goodwill note 11 on page 98 of the financial statements describes undertaken in an efficient manner.
In addition, the Committee received the estimation techniques used by management to assess whether and discussed with the Group Audit Partner the Financial Reporting there has been an impairment to the carrying value of goodwill and Councils annual Audit Quality Inspection report, published in May 2015, other intangible assets.
The Committee considered and critically reviewed on KPMG LLP and KPMG Audit plc.
The Audit Committee recommended the assumptions used in managements impairment calculations and to the Board the re-appointment of KPMG as auditor and for this to be considered the views of the external auditor on this issue.
This included put to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
a review of the sensitivity analysis undertaken by management and the external auditor.
On the basis of this review, the Committee agreed with Auditor independence and nonaudit services management that no impairment to goodwill was necessary.
During 2015, KPMG continued to provide certain non-audit services to the Group.
The Committee maintains under review the level and scope Adoption of the going concern basis of non-audit work awarded to KPMG to ensure that any services provided Prior to the publication of both the half and the full-year results for are within the constraints of the Audit Practices Boards Ethical Standards the Group, the Committee undertook a detailed assessment of the on Auditing and that the level of fees attached to these services are not appropriateness of the adoption by the Group of the going concern sufficiently material such that it could be perceived to impact the auditors basis in the preparation of its financial statements.
considered to support the ongoing adoption of the going concern basis and the Committees conclusion supporting this is set out Non-audit engagements awarded to KPMG continue to be subject to strict in the Performance and financial review on page 40. controls agreed by the Audit Committee.
In summary, the Group Finance Director is required to give prior approval of non-audit work carried out Viability statement by KPMG and its associates in excess of a predetermined threshold.
In Prior to the publication of the full-year results for 2015, the Committee addition, any such work incurring fees in excess of 250,000 is discussed undertook a detailed assessment of the viability statement and with me prior to its commencement.
These measures are designed to recommended to the Board that the Directors can believe that they have ensure that other potential providers of the services required have been a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in adequately considered.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
Please refer to page 27 for the statement.
Non-audit services provided during 2015 related to tax advisory and other assurance services.
Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to Fair, balanced and understandable KPMG can be found in note 3 on page 93.
At its February 2016 meeting the Committee reviewed the Groups Annual Report and Accounts and recommended them to the Board as representing a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 54 Governance Internal audit Nonaudit fees 2015 The Groups internal audit function is currently outsourced to Deloitte LLP.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the role and Audit fees 1.4m or 78% of total effectiveness of the internal audit function by monitoring the results of Non-audit fees 0.4m or 22% of total its work and the responses of management to its recommendations.
In the interests of increased efficiency and effectiveness, the Committee Total fees 1.8m also ensures that the work undertaken by the internal audit function complements the scope agreed for the external audit.
The Committee reviewed and approved the 2015 internal audit plan at its meeting in December 2014 and continued to monitor progress against this plan during the year.
Results and management actions arising from the reviews undertaken in 2015 were discussed in detail at each of the Committees meetings.
The Head of Internal Audit attended all of the Committees meetings during 2015 and held discussions with the Committee in the absence of Executive management.
In December 2015, the Committee undertook an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Nonaudit fees 2014 internal audit function with reference to robustness of audits, quality of delivery and quality of people and service.
Based on an approval score Audit fees 1.3m or 81% of total of 4.7 out of 5.0 it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the internal Non-audit fees 0.3m or 19% of total audit function.
Total fees 1.6m Risk management and internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system.
The Board is also responsible for i determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and, in this regard, the Board maintains risk management and internal control systems and ii determining that the Groups systems for risk management and internal control are appropriate and operating effectively.
As part of its terms of reference, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys internal KPMG also has in place strict requirements on rotation, with the lead audit control and risk management systems on behalf of the Board.
partner required to rotate off the account after five years and other senior team members required to rotate after 10 years on the audit.
In addition, Risk management KPMG also provides the Committee with information on the safeguards Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of it has in place to maintain its independence and objectivity in relation to significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the the provision of non-audit services to the Group.
design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
The Group Head of Risk, Robin Herzberg, is responsible for co-ordinating Furthermore, at each of its meetings, the Committee holds discussions the reporting of strategic risk issues across the Group, and for oversight with the auditor, without management being present.
Based on these of risk management and training.
safeguards the Committee remains confident of the independence and objectivity of KPMG in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Risk management is embedded into the Groups operational activities with risk registers maintained for each project, business unit and the External audit tendering Group as a whole.
Internal and external risks arising from a variety KPMG was appointed as the Companys auditor at its inception in 1999. of sources, including control breakdowns, disruption to information The Committee has continued to monitor the independence and systems, competition, corporate social responsibility, natural objectivity of the auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process catastrophes and regulatory requirements are monitored on a through a range of measures discussed on page 54. continuous basis.
Each business unit has a formal risk co-ordinator, each of whom participates in a quarterly risk forum chaired by the The Committee has also kept under review the regulatory position in Group Head of Risk.
Based on the output generated at these forums, relation to the tendering of the external audit and rotation of the audit theGroup Head of Risk prepares a summary of the principal risks and firm during 2015.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that associated mitigations, which is submitted to the Board on a six-monthly FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to basis.
The Groups risk management procedures are reviewed by its tender at least every 10 years or provide an explanation of why it is Internal Audit function on a periodic basis.
Key risks and uncertainties considered not appropriate to do so.
The transitional arrangements together with the associated mitigating controls relating to the Groups associated with this requirement allow companies to align the timing business are summarised on pages 28 to 31 of the Strategic report.
of the tender with the cycle for the rotation of the engagement partner.
Furthermore, under an order issued by the UKs Competition and To mitigate further the risks associated with significant new projects, Markets Authority, a tender is required by the year ending 31 December the Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an 2020.
To achieve compliance with these requirements, after taking into independent appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major account the suggested non-binding transition arrangements under the Projects Committee see page 56.
This appraisal ensures that the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group will tender its audit by the differentiating factors of the Groups offer have been properly identified, year ending 31 December 2019.
Also, under European Union legislation, thus maximising the opportunities available: it also involves ensuring again after taking into account the associated transition arrangements, that all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have the Group will rotate its audit to a new audit firm by the year ending been properly identified and considered.
The Audit Committee understands the value associated with a formal tender process and is committed to ensuring compliance with the above statutory and regulatory requirements.
The Committee intends to keep under review the exact timing of a future audit tender, but will comply with the timings noted above.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Report of the Audit Committee continued Internal control and assurance processes Management has also implemented a system of peer reviews, In order to protect the Companys assets, the interests of its under which the performance of individual contracts is reviewed stakeholders and provide mitigation against the risks and uncertainties by experienced teams from other projects across the business.
relating to its business, the Company maintains a comprehensive set Summaries of the peer review reports were provided to, and reviewed of policies, procedures and controls, including financial, operational by, the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the peer review and compliance controls.
This section of the report summarises the key process continues to work well and represents a very useful additional elements of the Groups internal control framework, although it should source of assurance for the management and the Board.
be noted that the controls summarised below are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and as such they provide reasonable but not The Group has also implemented a process of Control Risk Selfabsolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
Assessment where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation to ensure the control The Groups financial and operating activities are conducted in environment in their business areas is appropriate.
They also compliance with the procedures, policies and limits set by the Board.
confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes and Management has also implemented procedures to ensure timely and appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively.
accurate reporting of business performance by business units.
Regular performance review meetings are held in which senior managers report Annual evaluation of Committee performance to the Executive Directors on business performance against targets, As part of the overall Board evaluation process the Committee risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are reviewed its performance for 2015.
This evaluation considered areas presented to the Board.
such as the Committees processes and support, its time management and composition, its effectiveness in reviewing the work undertaken The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the by internal and external audit and its effectiveness in reviewing internal sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including control systems, the quality of reporting and management of risk, capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business and confirmed that the Committee continues to be highly effective in acquisitions and disposals.
This Committee has delegated authority undertaking its responsibilities.
Future priorities highlighted by this up to specified levels of risk as determined by a risk assessment matrix, evaluation include: beyond which Board approval is required.
engagement with senior finance leadership at the operational level Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy todevelop further understanding of capability and risks and procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for continuing to develop processes to monitor and map the risk profile commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of relating to the Groups activities and the external environment.
guarantees and management accounting as well as for reporting and resolving suspected fraudulent activities.
Review of risk management and internal controls During the year, the Audit Committee monitored and reviewed the Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, including its malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential risk management procedures noted and discussed in this report, Whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third party and reported thereon to the Board.
Based on the Committees report, is available.
A monthly report on issues raised on the the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Whistleblowing hotline and subsequent investigations is compiled evaluating and managing the significant risks both financial and by the Whistleblowing and Fraud Committee and presented to the non-financial and including Corporate Social Responsibility risks Audit Committee.
The Board has a policy to prosecute individuals faced by the Group including joint ventures and overseas businesses.
found to have defrauded the Company or its subsidiaries.
To minimise The process has been in place for the year under review and up to the the occurrence of fraud, learning points for management are identified date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and have been and action plans implemented.
regularly reviewed by the Committee.
The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in I will be available to answer any questions about the work of the the business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
Committee at the AGM on 4 May 2016.
The Group Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial information, which includes key performance indicators and a summary of risk.
These key performance indicators are listed in the Strategic report on pages 8 to 10.
Where areas for improvement are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by both the Executive Directors and the Committee.
Andrew Dougal Chairman of the Audit Committee Internal audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and 3 March 2016 effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the business and reports its findings to management, the Executive Directors and the Committee.
Recommendations to improve the system of control made by internal audit are followed up on a regular basis.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56
