Report of the Nominations Committee Appointment of Non-Executive Director Dear Shareholder, In order to facilitate the search relating to the appointment of Keith Cochrane, the Nominations Committee used the services of executive I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Nominations Committee.
JCA Group has no connections to the Company other than the provision of services in relation to searches for After a busy 2014 when we addressed a number of Board succession new Non-Executive Directors.
The JCA Group has adopted the Voluntary issues, the Committee had a relatively quiet year during 2015.
As Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms which, inter alia, is designed planned, Steve Mogford, who completed nine years as a member to improve gender balance on Boards.
of the Board in September, stepped down as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in September and retired from the Board and The Nominations Committee evaluated the balance of skills, experience, the Committee in December 2015.
I would like to thank Steve for his independence and knowledge on the Board and, based on this assessment, contribution to the Committees work over the years.
Keith Cochrane prepared a description of the key skills and expertise required.
Details joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2015 and was of potential candidates were provided by the JCA Group and initially appointed to the Committee at that time.
In September, Keith succeeded reviewed by a sub-committee of the Nominations Committee.
Meetings Steve as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
We welcome with selected candidates were then held with the Directors.
Subsequently, Keith and the experience and skills that he brings to the Board.
the Nominations Committee met to recommend Mr Cochranes appointment, which was then proposed to the Board for approval.
This report provides a summary of the Committees work during 2015.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and subject Membership and attendance at meetings held during the year to annual re-election.
Written terms and conditions in relation to the ended 31 December 2015 appointment of all Non-Executive Directors will be available at the 2016 Meeting attendance Meeting attendance AGM and can be inspected at the Companys registered office, Carillion 2015 2014 House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR.
Fees payable to Appointed Eligible Eligible Non-Executive Directors are discussed in the Remuneration report Member retired Attended to attend Attended to attend on pages 57 to 72.
Philip Green 01.06.11 2 2 3 3 Keith Cochrane 02.07.15 0 0 N A N A Board diversity Andrew Dougal 03.10.11 2 2 3 3 The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the Alison Horner 01.12.13 2 2 2 3 composition of the Board to ensure that it continues to represent the Richard Howson 10.12.09 2 2 3 3 right balance of skills, knowledge and experience, independence and diversity to support the future delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Steve Mogford 31.12.15 2 2 2 3 Committee recognises the importance of gender diversity throughout Ceri Powell 02.04.14 2 2 1 1 the Group.
The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, Currently, two of the seven Board members are female.
While the knowledge and experience of the Board and makes recommendations Committee will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that the best to the Board with regard to any changes that are deemed desirable.
The people are appointed for the relevant roles, the benefits of greater Committee also reviews succession planning to ensure that processes diversity are recognised and will continue to be taken into account and plans are in place with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
when considering any particular appointment.
The Committee continues to be chaired by myself and its membership includes the independent Non-Executive Directors plus the Group Chief Annual evaluation Executive.
The Group Human Resources Director attends certain As part of the overall Board evaluation process, the Committee meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The Committees terms of reviewed its performance for 2015 and this confirmed that it continues reference are available at www.
com or on request from to be highly effective.
Future priorities highlighted by this evaluation the Company Secretary.
included a continued focus on executive succession within the Group.
I will be available to answer any questions about the work of the The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board Committee at the AGM on 4 May 2016. as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
Implementation of Board succession I was very pleased with the seamless transition we achieved in relation to the appointment of Keith Cochrane as Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in succession to Steve Mogford.
Having served on the Board since 2006, Steve Mogford retired as a Director on 31 December 2015.
In anticipation of this, the Committee led the process that culminated in the appointment of Keith Philip Green Cochrane to the Board in July 2015.
These changes were largely planned Chairman during 2014 and implemented during 2015.
3 March 2016 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 50
