74 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report corporate goverNaNce Fundamental to the groups corporate governance policy and practice is that all directors and employees reflect the Companys key values of accountability, fairness, integrity and openness.
Mark Bankes Chairman of the compliance and corporate governance committee Dear shareholders Compliance corporate governance committee As at the date of this report, the compliance corporate I am presenting this corporate governance report in my governance committee is chaired by Mark Bankes and its capacity as chairman of the compliance and corporate members are Edward Haslam and Mark Arnesen.
governance committee, a committee established by the board of the Company whose function is to make The committees primary functions and responsibilities recommendations to the board on matters such as: are set out in the charter which can be found on the Companys website.
a the implementation, maintenance and monitoring of the Companys corporate compliance programme The activities undertaken during the year included and its code of conduct, taking account of applicable the following: government and industry standards, legal and business review of progress in respect to the concession trends and public policy issues: and agreement court hearing and the DFO litigation as b the Companys activities in the area of corporate detailed further in note 20 to the financial statements : compliance that might impact upon its business developments in the legislation and regulatory operations or public image.
framework that impact the business: Fundamental to the groups corporate governance policy monitoring of government relations relating to both the and practice is that all directors and employees reflect the concession agreement and exploration permits: Companys key values of accountability, fairness, integrity review of the reporting and disclosure requirements and openness.
required by the LSE and TSX: The key areas of activity for the development of the assisting the board and management on the Companys approach to corporate governance are requirements to make public disclosures: and listed below: review of the updates to the Companys policies and procedures.
appointment of BDO LLP for the provision of internal audit see audit and risk committee report : appointment of the new CEO and separate role of chairman and appointment of the new CFO see nomination report : development of the executive remuneration and further disclosure see remuneration report : and evaluation of board and committee composition see nomination report.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 75 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report The board of directors aims to ensure that shareholders are provided with important information in a timely manner via written and electronic communications.
Shareholder communication Key shareholder and investor relations activities throughout the year: All shareholders are encouraged to attend our AGM on 11 May 2016, which will be held in Jersey.
This will be an Date Activity excellent opportunity to meet board members and our senior management team.
January Investor conference, London February 2015 Investor conference, South Africa The board of directors aims to ensure that shareholders are March Investor marketing, North America provided with important information in a timely manner via April 2015 Analyst and investor conference calls written and electronic communications.
May Investor marketing, London The chairman, CEO, other directors and our head of June 2015 Analyst and investor conference, investor relations communicate with major shareholders capital markets day on a regular basis through facetoface meetings, July August Marketing, Zurich telephone conversations, and analyst and broker briefings September 2015 Conference, Denver to help better understand the views of the shareholders.
Any material feedback is then discussed at board level.
October Investor marketing, London November 2015 In particular the feedback from the certain of the proxy advisory companies, which provide guidance and voting The board recognises the importance of keeping the market recommendations to shareholders, were discussed by fully informed of the groups activities and of communicating the board.
openly and clearly with all stakeholders.
The Company has Shareholder communication policy encompasses: a formal continuous disclosure policy to ensure this occurs.
A subcommittee of the board monitors and advises on the the annual report: Companys continuous disclosure obligations.
All actions the annual information form: and decisions of the subcommittee are presented to the quarterly and halfyearly reports: compliance and corporate governance committee at the next available meeting.
continuous disclosure requirements and regulatory announcements: Details of the Companys policies and procedures can be webcasts on quarterly results: found on the Companys website.
the annual general meeting: the Companys website: Mark Bankes registrar services: and Chairman of the compliance and corporate governance committee electronic and postal notifications.
