76 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report NomINatIoN report The Company continued to grow and mature this year and at the heart of this growth was continued focus on executive recruitment and succession planning G Edward Haslam Chairman of the nomination committee Dear shareholders Following a short, but thorough recruitment exercise, I am pleased to advise that Ross Jerrard will join Centamin as I am presenting this report as chairman of the nomination CFO with effect from 18 April 2016.
Ross was selected committee, a committee established by the board of from a shortlist of candidates, all of whom were highly the Company.
qualified individuals, who were either CFOs within the mining industry, or individuals who held senior positions The committee played an active role in succession planning within audit and assurance or as commercial accountants.
during 2015 and this culminated in the appointment of our The committee are fully supportive of the appointment of chief executive officer, Andrew Pardey.
Andrew Pardey, at Ross, who will bring a wealth of experience, enthusiasm the recommendation of the committee, was appointed a and leadership to the CFO role.
Ross was lead audit partner director and CEO on 1 February 2015.
The committee also with Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Perth, where he was based had oversight of the induction process, ensuring that he for the last thirteen years.
Ross previously served as the received the support that he needed and understood his engagement partner for the audit of Centamins Australian responsibilities as a director of a listed Company.
subsidiaries these subsidiaries are now audited by PwC and The committee was involved in detailing the role and scope the appropriate clearance procedures have been followed of the executive chairman, Josef ElRaghy, who resumed in relation to his appointment with Centamin.
Ross has led the role of chairman of the Company in February 2015. many teams providing audit and related financial advisory Having previously undertaken the dual role of CEO and services to public companies, and national and international chairman, the orderly handover of responsibilities to the groups.
Prior to moving to Australia, Ross worked in new CEO was critical and this process was overseen by the southern Africa and the Middle East providing services nomination committee.
for a range of resource companies.
Specifically relevant to Centamin is that he spent threeandahalf years in This year, the committee has been actively involved in Egypt, based in Cairo, acting for multinational companies the recruitment process to identify and appoint a new operating in the region.
This process followed the resignation of our current CFO, Pierre Louw, who will hand The committee also recommended the appointment over responsibilities in April 2016. of Trevor Schultz, as chairman of the HSES committee, following the retirement of Bob Bowker.
Following Bobs retirement, the committee evaluated the board composition as well as the experience, balance and skill set on each of the committees.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 77 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report As part of our succession planning, we will continue to appoint and encourage female professionals to ensure a progressive pipeline of talent within the Companys management and senior management team The committee met three times during the year and also In 2015, the nomination committee and the board discussed carried out the following activities: the need for any new appointments to the board, either through the process of succession planning or external made recommendations as to the structure, size and appointments.
Discussions of this nature will continue composition of the board and board committees: in 2016. reviewed the competencies, skills, knowledge and The report provides more detail on the activities, decisions experience of directors: and policies of the nomination committee and the board.
reviewed the board succession plans: made recommendations for the appointment and Edward Haslam reelection of directors to the board: Chairman of the nomination committee considered the requirements for board diversity including gender diversity : and 21 March 2016 updated the policy on senior and executive recruitment and succession planning.
Within the remit of the nomination committee, there is a requirement to ensure adequate succession planning is routinely discussed.
Reviews of management capabilities and potential are performed on a routine basis and resources allocated to assist with this.
78 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report NomINatIoN report continued Nomination committee Performance evaluation As at the date of this report, the nomination committee The senior independent nonexecutive director held comprises Edward Haslam chairman, Mark Arnesen meetings with the nonexecutive directors without the and Kevin Tomlinson, all of whom are independent executive directors present, providing feedback to the full nonexecutive directors of the Company.
These meetings focused primarily on the evaluation members attended all three committee meetings held of the boards performance, a performance evaluation of during the year.
the chairman and CEO, discussing the quality of reporting and information flows to the board and discussions on the Board diversity strategic aims and objectives for the group.
The board set out its updated policy on recruitment, the The nonexecutives also discussed openly with the selection process and succession planning in the 2014 executive directors, the areas they could assist further with annual report.
in relation to business development.
The board has further considered the recommendations An evaluation of the board and its committees was of the nomination committee both in connection undertaken during the year and was concluded in March with recruitment policy, selection process and 2016.
The board, in conducting its evaluation, reviewed succession planning.
the activity, composition and expertise of the committees In particular, in connection with board diversity, the boards and considered their effectiveness taking account of position is that, whilst all appointments should be continued the following: to be made on merit, female candidates will be considered the responsibilities set out in their respective charters: routinely as part of the recruitment process.
It remains the boards intention to identify a suitable female candidate as activities carried out during the year, taking account of part of the recruitment process as and when the need arises their mandated duties and responsibilities: for a new appointment at board level.
progress made in respect of their duties and responsibilities: In addition, and as part of our succession planning, we will continue to appoint and encourage female professionals to attendance and contribution to the committees: and ensure a progressive pipeline of talent within the Companys reporting and updates provided to the board.
management and senior management team.
The board noted in particular that the committees had In this last context the committee noted that a number of become more streamlined and the timely delivery of females already hold senior positions within the Company, committee and board papers had allowed the board to in the areas of legal, accountancy, HSES and subsidiary spend more time discussing key issues.
However, as set out in the CSR report, mining The board reviewed its own membership and performance is traditionally a maledominated industry and, of our and this review was concluded in March 2016.
Egyptian workforce, only 1% are female.
This is mainly due to social conditions in Egypt and in the Middle East where The nomination committee had recommended that Trevor in general female employees are not encouraged to work at Schultz be appointed to replace Bob Bowker as HSES remote sites.
A greater percentage of females are employed committee chair.
The board, whose views were supported throughout the group in the administrative offices and at by the nomination committee, agreed that the board the Companys headquarters.
continued to have the required breadth of expertise and there was no immediate need to seek a replacement for In developing the Companys policy on diversity, the board Bob Bowker.
has considered the requirements of the Code and National Instrument 58101.
The board discussed in detail the scope and remit of the new CEO, Andrew Pardey, and specifically the KPIs and The board, through the recommendations of the nomination areas of focus for Andrew Pardey.
Key to the success of committee, will provide an update on the recruitment the new CEO would be to ensure Andrew Pardey had the process in future reporting disclosures.
required resources, induction and support of the board.
Details of the current composition of the board and the wider management team are set out in the directors report.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 79 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report The committee and the board were involved in ensuring an orderly handover of certain responsibilities that Josef ElRaghy assumed whilst acting in the joint role of chairman and CEO.
The board is assisted by the nomination committee on its evaluation of the nonexecutive directors.
An external facilitator will be appointed in May 2016 to assess the effectiveness of the board.
The last review by an external facilitator was carried out in May 2013.
The performance of all directors is constantly reviewed by the chairman and, periodically, by the nomination committee.
The Company deployed a formal process for evaluation of the board, the board members, the board committees and the chairman during the relevant period led by the senior independent nonexecutive director.
The board has also had training sessions on various topics during the year, carried out by  LLP topics included corporate governance updates and identification of risks and risk management processes.
