STRATEGIC REPORT Resources and Relationships Our business model and strategy areunderpinned by key resources andrelationships.
Customers Our People Our customers are fundamental to our success.
By delivering Our people are key to ensuring the ongoing success of the our vision: to be The Best Place to Watch a Movie, we focus business and employee engagement continues to be central on ensuring that our customers have a positive experience to our People Strategy and a success story for the Group.
and increase the likelihood of repeat visits.
We aim to deliver a broad range of films, in high-quality venues with retail Following further investment in pay and benefits, especially offerings to suit our customers tastes, all of which contribute for our front of house teams, as well as continued focus on our to achieving our vision.
management teams, we have seen participation in our annual survey and engagement levels reach an all-time high in the UK We also have initiatives which aim to extend the relationship in 2015.
Our experience in this area has started to beapplied with the customer beyond a single visit.
In the UK, and across other territories, and we will continue to do so as from the end of 2015 in Poland, we have the Unlimited appropriate, over the coming year.
subscription service which is a fixed monthly or annual subscription enabling customers to watch as many 2D films In line with our business growth strategy across the Group, as they wish.
We also have a number of other membership internal succession has been a key focus for all our territories.
schemes across the UK and other territories which offer Internal succession in the UK has improved since the discounts and allow us to interact with our customer base introduction of the Talent Development Review process and more frequently.
We have recently entered the top 50 UK this has resulted in the promotion of over 60 managers in Customer Satisfaction Index, climbing 65 places from the 2015with an even more robust pipeline in place for 2016. prioryear which is a great achievement.
In support of internal succession, we have further developed Event cinema screenings have enabled us to bring a wider and initiated a number of Learning and Development range of content to customers throughout our estate, enabling programmes, some of which we are already starting to apply our audiences to see live shows taking place around the world.
This included continued investment in our Operating in this way supports such productions making them on-line learning and management platform and during the more commercially viable, allows more people to see them second half of 2015, 100% of our cinema team members, have and, in turn, brings more people to the cinema and frequently completed or started on-line development session to support a different type of customer.
their personal and professional development.
During 2015 we also saw the graduation of 17 managers from the Cineworld As many of our customers still associate going to the cinema Academy Development Programme diplomas at levels 5 & as a treat or special occasion, they choose to eat traditional 7 accredited by the Institute of Leadership and Management cinema snacks as part of their experience.
We also launched Cineworlds Talent Programme, Be partners to offer a wider variety of products including healthy More, which saw an intake of 25 junior managers who have options.
In line with our philosophy of offering wider snacking been identified with high potential.
We have also evolved our options we have now opened 17 Starbucks outlets across the Apprenticeship Programme and now have 23 young people UK estate, which have been very well received.
completing their Apprenticeship enabling them to become Supervisors of the future.
This programme continues to In our Picturehouse circuit, the food and drink proposition is provide an opportunity for young people to learn straight more akin to that found in restaurants and closely tailored to from school and offers an exciting career path into the the audience profile to which it caters.
A wide range of snacks cinemaindustry.
and meals are available, many of which include ingredients sourced from local producers and suppliers.
In addition, the Employees throughout the Group participate in the success range of its retail products is extensive and offers low sugar of the Group in different ways.
Depending on location, our and sugar free options.
We continue to ensure that we provide people can also benefit from the success of the Company good nutrition and allergen advice to enable our customers by participating in its SAYE Share Option Scheme: flexible tomake informed choices.
benefits and quarterly bonus schemes.
Additionally, a number of people participate in annual bonus schemes we are proud that for the 21st consecutive year bonuses were again paid to all qualifying people working in its UK business.
Many of the bonus schemes are underpinned by a performance | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 20 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT management framework, which reflects not only personal We build relationships with developers, landlords and local performance but also Group performance, and helps ensure planners to ensure that we maintain a pipeline of new sites for that people are recognised and rewarded for their individual the future.
We also work closely with suppliers of technological contribution to the business and on the overall Group results.
enhancements, for instance IMAX and 4DX, which enables us to ensure that we are delivering the best possible experience to our In recent years, there have been a number of increases to customers, as well as looking to maximise box officerevenues.
minimum and living wages, both in the UK and in our overseas territories and throughout this period our aim has been to Strong relationships with our principal retail suppliers, such as pay a fair wage.
For this reason, our pay rates aim to be Coca-Cola, Baskin Robbins, Candy King and Starbucks, enable above statutory minimums and this will continue to be the us to work together on promotions that help drive retail sales.
We seek to manage relationships with our suppliers fairly, and towork in accordance with our aspirations as set out in our Diversity and Human Rights ethical policy.
The Group is an equal opportunity employer and seeks to recruit, retain and promote staff on the basis of their Safety qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
A wide range The ongoing management of the day-to-day health, safety of applicants are encouraged to apply for all roles.
and welfare of our customers, employees and contractors is Inemployment-related decisions, the business complies of major importance.
With over 93 million customer visits a withall relevant legislation including that specifically year and over 9,000 employees, the Group seeks to maintain targeted at preventing discrimination and such principles high standards in the effective management of our health areembedded through the business by requisite policies.
andsafety obligations, and our duty of care to our customers and staff.
Cineworld also seeks to treat all of its staff in accordance with its Ethics policy so that each person is accorded dignity and Each year every cinema in the Group is subject to health and respect and the guiding principle is followed that we treat safety assessments and a fire risk audit.
Results are compared other people as we ourselves would like to be treated.
year-on-year and any significant issues are followed up with the assistance of specialist external consultants where needed.
Gender Breakdown of Cineworld People Overall, the results have shown that standards remain high.
All incidents are logged, investigated and action taken, where BOARD OF SENIOR 1 DIRECTORS MANAGERS TOTAL EMPLOYEES appropriate, to ensure that the chances of a reoccurrence are reduced as far as reasonably possible.
Male 6 7 4,685 Female 3 4 4,621 1 Senior managers are those people who report directly to an Executive Director.
Key Commercial Relationships We work hard at developing good relationships with a range of film studios and distributors, both major and independent.
Our focus on driving cinema admissions and on providing our customers with a wide range of films has resulted in many opportunities for us to work with film studios on simplifying the film buying process and on promoting smaller films to a wider audience.
We also work closely in association with industry bodies, including The Federation Against Copyright Theft FACT, to combat film piracy.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 21
