GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors Statements Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange for the period covered by this statement are contained in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, and a copy is available on its website www.
For the period ended 31December 2015, the Board considers that the Company was compliant with the provisions of the Code.
Going Concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 12 months from the date of signing these accounts.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered the business activities as set out on pages 1 to 34 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 22.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, are described on pages 29 to 32.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in Note 21.
Viability The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties set out on pages 22 to 28.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2018.
For more information on the viability assessment, please see pages 50 to 51 of theAuditCommittee Report.
Robust Assessment of Principal Risks The Directors consider they have undertaken a robustassessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, futureperformance, solvency and liquidity.
Please refer to pages 22to 28 for further information on the Companys principal risks and uncertainties, and their impact on the prospects of the Company.
Review of Internal Control and Risk Management The Directors have carried out a review of internal control andrisk management.
Please refer to pages 47 to 48 for further information.
Fair Balanced and Understandable The Directors consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 40 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Application of Code Principles B.
6 Board and Committee Performance Evaluation The table below explains how the Company has applied the The Board and its Committees have undertaken an internal main principles of the Code.
The information required to be evaluation of their respective performances.
Details of the disclosed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR evaluations can be found on page 44.
6 is set out in the Directors Report on pages 75 to 79 of the Boards effectiveness will be held in 2016 in accordance andis incorporated into this statement by reference.
1 The Role of the Board All Directors are subject to shareholder election or re-election The Board met formally seven times during the year including at the Annual General Meeting.
a strategy day and held other meetings on an ad-hoc basis as required.
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for C. Accountability the Board, together with delegated authorities throughout C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting theGroup.
The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 34 and provides information about the performance of the Group, the business A.
2 Division of Responsibilities model, strategy and the principal risks and uncertainties The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly relating to the Groups future prospects.
Tony Bloom, the Chairman, is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board and for overseeing C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control the Boards setting of strategy.
Mooky Greidinger, the Chief The Board decides the Groups risk appetite and annually Executive Officer, is responsible for leading the day-toreviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and day management of the Group and the implementation of internal control systems.
The activities of the Audit Committee, thestrategy.
which assists the Board with its responsibilities in relation to the management of risk, are summarised on pages 50.
3 The Chairman The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings, manages C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors the meeting timetable in conjunction with the Company The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Secretary and facilitates open and constructive dialogue Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the during the meetings.
Groups financial reporting processes, internal control and risk management framework, the work undertaken by the External A.
4 The Role of the Non-Executive Directors Auditor, and the internal audit work of PwC.
The Chair of the The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment Audit Committee provides regular updates to the Board.
in Board meetings and actively invites the Non-Executive Directors views.
The Non-Executive Directors provide D. Remuneration objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management D. 1 Level and Components of Remuneration and meet regularly in the absence of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration appropriately with a view to ensuring the long-term success B.
Effectiveness of the Company, but also structures remuneration so as to B.
1 The Composition of the Board link it to both corporate and individual performance, thereby The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly aligning the executive managements interests with those reviewing the composition of the Board.
In making of the shareholders.
Benchmarking exercises are carried appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee out by external advisers to ensure remuneration levels considers the wide range of skills, knowledge and experience areappropriate.
required in order to maintain an effective Board.
D. 2 Procedure for Development of Remuneration Policy B.
2 Appointments to the Board andSetting Remuneration Packages The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Further details of the activities of the approach to setting the remuneration policy and packages Nomination Committee can be found on pages 45 and 46. can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 74.
3 Time Commitment On appointment, Directors are notified of the time E. Relations with Shareholders commitment expected from them and details are set out in E. 1 Shareholder Engagement and Dialogue their letter of appointment.
External directorships of Executive The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders.
Directors, which may impact existing time commitments, The Board particularly values opportunities to meet with arediscussed and cleared by the Chairman.
shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board iskeptinformed of shareholder views.
4 Development All Directors receive induction training on joining the E. 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Boardand, as part of the annual effectiveness evaluation, The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity thedevelopment needs of each Director are checked.
tomeet with shareholders, who are invited to meet the members of the Board informally following the formal B.
5 Information and Support businessof the meeting.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timelyinformation.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 41
