GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Effectiveness Rick Senat, the SID, is available to shareholders if they have Directors and Directors Independence concerns which contact through the normal channels of At the start of the year, the Board was composed of ten Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive members, five of whom were considered independent.
or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which ScottRosenblum is not viewed as independent because contact is inappropriate.
ofhisprevious business dealings with the Greidinger family and its interests.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on Corporate On 11 March 2015 it was announced that David Maloney Governance matters, ensuring Board procedures are followed andPeter Williams would be standing down as independent and facilitating the good information flow within the Board Non-Executive Directors at the 2015 AGM, which was held and the Board appointed Committees.
on 26 May 2015, following nine years of service.
At the same time, it was announced that Julie Southern would Performance Evaluation be proposed asindependent Non-Executive Director at Towards the end of the year, performance evaluation the AGM.
Followingher election at the AGM, Julie became questionnaires in respect of the Board, the Audit, the a director, Chair ofthe Audit Committee and a member Remuneration, and Nomination Committees, and each oftheRemuneration Committee.
individual Director including the Chairman, were circulated.
The results of the questionnaires were then collated by the On 25 March 2015, it was further announced that Alicja Company Secretary and a summary presented to the relevant Kornasiewicz would also be proposed as an independent Committee and the Board.
In the case of the Remuneration Non-Executive Director at the AGM and, following her election Committee, the evaluation was deferred until the beginning on 26 May, she became a Director and a member of the of2016 to allow the newly formed Committee sufficient AuditCommittee.
meetings upon which to comment, given the changes to itscomposition in the year.
The evaluation confirmed that At the same time, Rick Senat became a member of the overall the Board and Committee processes were working Remuneration Committee and was appointed Senior well.
The performance evaluation in 2016 will be carried out Independent Director, in place of David Maloney.
The with an external facilitator in accordance with the Code.
Committee changes were announced on 27 May 2015.
Re-election At the end of the period, the Board was composed of nine All the Directors will be retiring and will be offering themselves members, of whom five were considered independent.
Scott for re-election at this years AGM, reflecting current best Rosenblum is not considered independent, as set out above.
Biographical details of all the The names of the Directors at the year-end together with their current Directors are set out on pages 36 and 38.
In view biographical details are set out on pages 36 and 38. of the performance evaluation, the Board is satisfied that each Director standing for re-election continues to show The terms and conditions of appointment of the Nonthe necessary commitment and continues to be an effective Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment member of the Board due to his or her skills, expertise and and are made available for inspection by any person at the business acumen.
Companys registered office during normal business hours, and will be available at the AGM.
Further details of the letters Chairmans Commitments of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the The Chairman performs a limited number of external roles, service contracts of the Executive Directors can be found butthe Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere inthe Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 74. with the performance of the Chairmans duties to the Group.
For a FTSE 250 company, which the Company became in May 2014, the Code recommends that a majority of non-executive members of the Board of Directors should be independent in character and judgement, and free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board considers that Martina King, David Maloney, Arni Samuelsson, Rick Senat, Peter Williams, Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz were, for the period or the part of the period for which they served, independent Non-Executive Directors.
The independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective viewpoint and range of experience to the Company and ensure that no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the Boards decision making.
They play a key role in reviewing proposals and providing constructive challenge generally and in particular in respect of strategy.
They also ensure that appropriate standards are being maintained.
Allthe Non-Executive Directors have access to independent legal advice subject to consulting with the Board and following the agreed procedure.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 44 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Subsequent to these changes, our usual Board and Committee evaluations were carried out, and it is pleasing to be able to report that, overall, the results suggest that individuals have settled into their new roles well, and that theBoard and Committees are working well.
One further change is my own appointment to the position of Senior Independent Director, on the recommendation of my fellow Committee members.
It was a role I was pleased to take over from David, and I look forward to continuing hiswork in engaging with our shareholders.
June saw the departure of our then current CFO, Philip Bowcock, who left the Company after three and a half years of service.
We have instigated an executive search for his replacement, and we expect to make an announcement Nomination Committee Report on this matter shortly.
Information on how we recruit is set Chairmans Introduction out in more detail below on pages 46.
In the interim period, Dear Shareholders IsraelGreidinger has assumed the responsibilities of the CFO.
I am pleased to present our report on the Nomination Committee and its activities during the year.
Last year in my introductory letter, I noted the Committees desire to make more progress at a Board level with regard to As you will have noted from the Chairmans letter above, diversity.
It is pleasing that within our approach of appointing there were a number of changes to our Board and its the best person for each role on merit, following the Committees during the period, with three directors stepping appointment of Julie and Alicja in May, we now have thirtydown, and the appointment of two new independent three percent female representation on the Board, together Non-Executive Directors.
with directors from a range of different countries, cultures, and backgrounds.
Our aim throughout this period has been to ensure that the Company has maintained a strong and effective Board, Lastly, I would like to thank my fellow members who have with appropriate structures for its Committees.
A focus served with me on the Committee for their efforts and on succession planning during the early part of the year support.
We believe that the revisions during the year in relation to David Maloney and Peter Williams, who had have resulted in a Board composition that has evolved in indicated their intention to stand down at the 2015 AGM, areas that are key to complementing our business strategy, allowed for the steady transition in May to the revised anddriving the success of the business.
Rick Senat The changes to the Board also meant some alterations to Chairman of the Nomination Committee the constitution of our Committees in May, as set out in more detail on pages 42.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 45 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Composition Recruitment Process for Board Directors During the year, the Committee comprised three As part of planning for the succession process, the Non-Executive Directors namely Scott Rosenblum, Nomination Committee engaged external search consultancy ArniSamuelsson and Rick Senat.
While Arni Samuelsson Odgers Berndtson to assist with the search for appropriately is considered independent, Scott Rosenblum is not.
qualified replacements for David Maloney and Peter Williams, Themajority of the Committee are independent as who had informed the company that they planned to step requiredby the Code.
down from the Board at the AGM in May 2015.
The Role, Responsibilities and Activities of the Following interviews carried out by members of the NominationCommittee Committee, the Chairman of the Company, the Chief The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging Executive and the Chief Financial Officer at the time, the its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
It Committee recommended to the Board that Julie Southern is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and Alicja Kornasiewicz should be appointed as Nonand experience on the Board, the size, structure and Executive Directors and that both should also become composition of the Board, retirements and appointments members of the Audit Committee, and that Julie should of additional and replacement Directors, the independence become Chair.
It was also recommended that Julie become a of Directors, and it makes appropriate recommendations to member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board agreed the Board on such matters.
It is also responsible for ensuring with these recommendations and Julie and Alicja were duly that Directors have sufficient time to discharge their duties elected by shareholders at the AGM, and the Committee on appointment, and thereafter, with such matters being changes were announced on 27 May 2015. specifically addressed in the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the Odgers Berndtson, the external search consultancy used Committee are available on the Companys website forthis search, has no connections with the Group or any www.
The Committee met for two scheduled meetings during the At the same time, the Committee also recommended that financial year and for other meetings as required on an adMartina King, a current Non-Executive Director and member hoc basis.
Due to the important role that the Directors play of the Remuneration Committee should become Chair of in the success of the Group, the Chairman is invited to attend theRemuneration Committee with effect from the AGM, meetings, and does so, except when his own position or his andthe Board also approved this recommendation.
A search for a new CFO is currently underway, and executive During the year, the Committee recommended the search agency, Norman Broadbent has been consulted.
appointment of new Directors, reviewed its own performance, Norman Broadbent has no connections with the Group reviewed the structure of the Board and the three orany of its Directors.
Committees, and discussed succession and diversity issues.
Other Changes Board Diversity On 27 May 2015, it was announced that Rick Senat was to While the Committee considers diversity to be important become the new Senior Independent Director with effect when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible from 26 May 2015 and on 9 June 2015 it was announced that new appointees, it believes that the single most important Fiona Smith was to take over from Richard Ray in the role factor is to identify, recruit and retain the people it considers, ofCompany Secretary with effect from 30 June.
on merit, to be the best candidates for each particular role.
It is not currently in favour of setting specific targets for Board representation to be achieved by particular dates.
As part of the process of recruiting new Directors, it has agreed that candidates from a wide variety of backgrounds should be considered and, where reasonably possible, shortlists should comprise of candidates of both sexes.
Whilst following this policy, as a result of the recruitment of Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz, there is now over thirty-three percent female representation on the Board.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 46
