STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE In response to the introduction of the 2014 edition of theUK Corporate Governance Code Code, the Group has continued to evolve its approach to risk management and internal control, building on the introduction of its Risk Management Framework in 2014.
The output of this continued work has been a more enhanced view of the risks faced at an operational level, and the development of a Board view on risk appetite.
Both of these elements have contributed to further embedding risk consideration as part of the culture of the Group, and ensuring we have a robust view of our principal risks, including how such risks might affect our business model, future performance, solvency andliquidity.
During 2015, the Committee has also continued to review theeffectiveness of the Groups internal control system, Audit Committee Report using a combination of internal dedicated resources and Chairs Introduction support from PwC to deliver an assurance programme.
Dear Shareholders I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit Another area of focus has been the assessment of the Committee the Committee for the first time in my role viability of the Group over the longer term, and more asChair.
I would like to thank David Maloney for his work information on our viability statement is set out on page 50. untilMay 2015, and also my fellow Committee members fortheir support and efforts during the year.
Lastly, in February 2016 we instigated a tender process inrespect of the 2016 audit.
More details of the tender may The report sets out details of the activities undertaken be found on page 52. bythe Committee during the period in order to discharge its responsibilities in relation to supporting the Board Julie Southern in its oversight and monitoring of the robustness and Chair of the Audit Committee integrity of financial reporting, and in gaining assurance on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal controlsystem.
The Committees responsibilities in the area of financial reporting require that we consider and report on the significant risks and issues in relation to the financial statements, and consider how these would be addressed.
Significant matters that have been identified for the year are the Groups onerous lease provisions, the recognition ofthe virtual print fee, and the valuation of property, plant and equipment, and our formal position on the issues is setouton page 51.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 49 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Composition These reports included the scope for the interim review At the start of the year, the Committee comprised three and annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the independent Non-Executive Directors namely David External Auditor to evaluate and conclude on key areas Maloney, Martina King, and Peter Williams.
David Maloney of the audit, their assessment of materiality, the terms of and Peter Williams left the Committee in May 2015, and engagement and raising awareness to the Committee Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz were appointed of the likely impact of future changes to regulation and as members of the Committee in their place, with Julie accounting standards: becoming Chair.
Julie is a chartered accountant and is monitored the performance of PwC as the Internal considered by the Board to have recent and relevant Auditor, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial experience.
financial controls together with its broader internal control and risk management framework, identifying the need The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy forconsistent and appropriate financial controls across Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other the Group: senior executives, other Directors, the Internal Auditor and monitored the implementation of the Groups internal the External Auditor may be invited to attend meetings, audit plan for 2015, including implementation of a new risk butarenot members.
management framework, our risk-based assurance plan for our financial control environment and our Group wide Roles and Responsibilities cinema compliance programme: The Committee has a clear set of responsibilities that are reviewed the results of non-financial audits including set out in its Terms of Reference, which are available on food hygiene and fire safety and where applicable the Companys website www.
com about-us agreedenhancements to procedures and reviewed corporate-governance.
The Committee assists the Board remedial actions: in discharging its responsibility with regard to financial made recommendations to the Board with regard to reporting, the control environment, and the work of the continuing the appointment and remuneration of the External and Internal Auditors, including: External Auditor, oversaw the Groups relations with the monitoring the financial reporting process: External Auditor and their independence and monitored reviewing the integrity of the Annual and Half-Year the effectiveness of the audit process: Reports, including reviewing significant financial discussed the new requirements for a longer term viability judgements therein: statement and the related assessment work to enable the reviewing the Groups risk assessment process, the Board to make such a statement: outputof that assessment and the associated risk monitored the requirements to tender the audit management systems: periodically: and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls: reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
considering the scope of both the Internal and External Auditors activities, their reports and their effectiveness: Going Concern reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit In recommending the adoption of the going concern basis work undertaken by the External Auditor: and for preparing the financial statements, the Audit Committee advising on the appointment of the External Auditor.
considered the business activities, as well as the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 22 to The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the 28, and the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, Annual and Interim Reports remains with the Board.
liquidity position, and borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing What the Committee Did in 2015 capital, as described on pages 29 to 32 and the financial The Audit Committee met five times during the year, during riskmanagement objectives, details of financial instruments which time it: and hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk and monitored the financial reporting process and reviewed liquidity risk as set out in Note 21. the interim and annual financial statements including the preliminary announcement with particular reference Viability to accounting policies, principal risks and uncertainties, Part of the Audit Committees work in the year has been together with significant estimates and financial reporting to discuss and consider the new requirement under the judgements and the disclosures made therein: Code for a longer term viability statement, and the related considered the interim results and the Annual Report assessment work needed in order to enable the Directors and Accounts in the context of the requirement that tomake such a statement.
they are fair, balanced and understandable, by reviewing periodic papers prepared by management with regard Following work overseen by the Audit Committee, the to this principle.
This included reviewing the documents Directors have determined that a three year period to to ensure that the description of the business agrees 31December 2018 constitutes an appropriate period over with our own understanding, the risks reflect the issues which to provide its viability statement.
This is based on that concern us, the discussion of performance properly the Groups strategic forecast period which is driven by reflects the relevant period and that there is a clear link the visibility of the future film slate, the Groups property between all the areas of disclosures: expansion and renovation plans, investment in technology, received and discussed in the absence of management, and relationships with the film distributors.
where appropriate reports from the External Auditor in respect of their review of the interim results, the audit plan for the year and the results of the annual audit.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 50 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE The Directors viability assessment has taken into ii Virtual Print Fee VPF Recognition consideration the potential impacts of the principal risks As detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements, a VPF is in the business model, future performance, solvency and recognised on the date of the showing of the film to which it liquidity over the period, including principal mitigating relates.
Its recognition in the Statements of Profit or Loss and actions such as reducing capital expenditure and Other Comprehensive Income does therefore not necessarily dividendpayments.
align with when the cash is received.
There is therefore an element of judgement applied to the accounting process.
In performing our stress-testing the Directors have The approach for recognising VPFs has remained consistent considered the principal risks identified by the Group, in with the prior period for the UK & Ireland.
Cinema City also particular the impact of a fall in revenue, from a reduction has VPF contracts, however these are direct with distributors in admissions or the average ticket price, either as a result as opposed to via an agent.
The Committee satisfied of the deterioration in the film distributor relationships or themselves that the existing approach was appropriate the availability of quality film slate from the distributors.
andresulted in accurate recognition by enquiring of In performing the stress-test, with a decrease in revenues management and the External Auditor.
greater than levels previously experienced by the Group, the Group would still be able to continue to meet its day to day As there can be a timing difference between recognition liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2018. in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and cash receipt of the VPF income, the Committee enquired of Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that management as to whether or not the recovery of cash theGroup may face, the Directors consider that this was a risk.
Management presented regular updates to the stress-testing based assessment of the Groups prospects Committee which showed the recovery of the VPF income isreasonable in the circumstances of the inherent by comparing the revenues recognised during the year to uncertainty involved.
The Directors Viability Statement the cash received.
Management reported that there were issetout on page 40. no significant amounts which had not been recovered in line with the standard payment terms agreed with the VPF agent Significant Issues Considered in Relation to the or distributor, accordingly the Committee was satisfied that Financial Statements the risks around non-recovery of cash were minimal.
During the year the Committee, management and the External Auditor considered and concluded on what the iii Valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment PPE significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial As detailed in Note 9 to the financial statements, there is a statements and how these would be addressed.
significant inherent risk that the Groups considerable PPE balances may prove to be irrecoverable, due to fluctuations i Onerous Lease Provisions in the underlying performance of cinemas or one-off events.
As detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Given the difficulties involved in predicting the performance approach to estimating the onerous lease provision has of sites operated by the Group, in multiple territories remained consistent with the prior period.
It is noted that with differing factors to consider, there is an element of changes in performance of individual sites and the sensitivity judgement applied to the potential level of impairments to of inputs mean that the provision is inherently subjective.
be recognised on a cinema-by-cinema basis.
At each balance Management evaluate the appropriateness of the provision sheet date, management prepare their valuation model on at least an annual basis.
The exercise involves reviewing which assesses net present value of the cinema-by-cinema forecast future earnings on a site-by-site basis and ensuring cash flows, based on the Board approved budget over an that the provision in place remains at an appropriate level.
The main assumptions over growth As well as considering site performance, management also rates, the impact of one-off events, expected cost increases consider the appropriateness of the discount rates applied, and discount rates are updated to reflect managements the country specific discount rate, and ensure that they are bestestimate.
updated for current market information and the Groups current leverage.
At the period end management prepared their valuation model for the Committees consideration, together with Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that their proposed site impairments.
Management confirmed the methodology had been applied consistently during tothe Committee that they have applied a consistent Group the current year and none of the Committees other wide methodology in the preparation of the valuation enquiries, nor the Auditors work, identified any errors model and the Committee satisfied itself that the approach orinconsistencies that were material in the context of the was appropriate, the assumptions reasonable and that financial statements as a whole.
Management confirmed the impairments proposed were complete and accurate.
that they have monitored the adequacy of the provision The Committee also satisfied itself through enquiry of historically and concluded that there have been no material management and review of the Board papers that all unprovided costs or unrequired provision identified.
significant events which may have impacted on the valuation of PPE had been appropriately captured in managements assumptions and reflected in the valuation model.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 51 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued External Audit The Audit Committee therefore requested that the current The Committee reviews the appointment of the External partner continue in that role, initially for 2014.
In 2015, after Auditor each year before the cycle of audit commences further consideration, the Committee requested a further and in deciding whether to renew the appointment takes extension for the 2015 financial year while the integration of note, amongst other matters, of the quality of the service the businesses completed.
KPMG agreed to both requests.
received, the proposed fees and the Auditors independence.
With the integration complete, subject to the outcome of the Management and all members of the Committee are audit tender described more fully below, Mark Summerfield consulted during the process.
Further details of these will rotate and be replaced as SSA by Hugh Green.
The processes are set out below.
Committee participated fully in Hughs selection and believe he has substantial, relevant experience, and would like to Effectiveness thank Mark for his significant contribution over the years.
During the year, the Committee evaluated the performance and objectivity of KPMG and reviewed their effectiveness The External Auditor is also required to periodically assess as External Auditor.
The effectiveness of the 2015 audit was whether, in their professional opinion, they are independent assessed by reference to the following: and confirm this to the Comittee.
KPMG has provided the lead audit engagement partner, including the support thisconfirmation.
provided to the Audit Committee: the skills and experience of the wider audit team and their Appointment and Tender execution of the audit: In February 2016, the Audit Committee instigated a tender the planning and scope of the audit including process for its 2016 audit.
The process, which is being identification of areas of audit risk and communication overseen by the Audit Committee, is underway at the ofany changes to the plan, including changes in perceived date of this Annual Report, and the results of the tender audit risks: will be announced by the Company in due course.
As part the quality of communication with the Audit Committee, of the process, the Audit Committee will negotiate and including the regular reports on accounting matters, agree the scope of the audit, and the fee.
The audit has governance and control: not been tendered since the Group listed in 2007 and, the competence with which the External Auditor following the completion of the integration with Cinema handled the key accounting and audit judgements City, it wasconsidered to be an appropriate time to proceed andcommunication of the same with management withthe tender.
The Company considers it has complied with andtheCommittee: the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit their reputation and standing, including their Services Order.
independence and objectivity and their internal quality procedures: and Non-Audit Services the quality of the formal report to shareholders.
The Committee considers the independence of the External Auditor on an ongoing basis and has established policies to Further, at the conclusion of each years audit, the consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the Committee discusses the performance of the External External Auditor to perform non-audit services.
In particular, Auditor with the Executive Directors and relevant senior under its terms of reference, all non-audit fee work needs finance managers considering areas such as the quality of to be approved by the Committee if the value of such work audit team, business understanding, audit approach and is likely to be greater than 30,000.
Where appropriate, actions are agreed against certain non-audit services to the Group, principally in the points raised and subsequently monitored for progress.
respect of advice on tax compliance and advisory services There were no significant findings from the evaluation 464,000, pensions advisory services 90,000, and thisyear.
Further details are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
The Committee After taking into account all of the above factors, the is satisfied that such work was best undertaken by KPMG Committee concluded that the External Auditor was and their objectivity has not been impaired by reason of effective.
In addition, the Committee is satisfied that thisfurther work.
it has sufficient oversight of the External Auditor and its independence and objectivity is not comprised due tothesafeguards in place.
Independence Professional standards normally require the Senior Statutory Auditor SSA to be rotated every five years, which would have meant a new partner being appointed for the audit of the 2014 financial year.
As previously disclosed, the Audit Committee considered that in the circumstances of the combination with the business of Cinema City it was necessary to extend the tenure of the SSA in order to safeguard the quality of the external financial statement audit.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 52 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Insurance Relations with Shareholders It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the The Directors value contact with the Companys institutional fullest extent.
The Group has in place an insurance programme and private investors.
An Annual Report and Accounts is to help protect it against certain insurable risks.
The portfolio sent to all new shareholders and is otherwise made available of insurance policies is kept under regular review with its to shareholders via the Companys website unless they insurance broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to have specifically requested that a copy is sent to them.
the Groups activities and exposures in light of cost, and the Presentations are given to shareholders and analysts following likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
the announcement of the interim results and the preliminary announcement of the full year results.
Trading updates are Remuneration Committee typically issued in January and June, as well as during the Composition firstand third quarters.
At the start of the year, the Companys Remuneration Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors Martina Separate announcements of all material events are made as King, David Maloney, and Peter Williams.
In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy and Peter Williams left the Committee in May 2015, and Julie Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer or Southern and Rick Senat were appointed as members of the acting Chief Financial Officer who have regular contact with Committee in their place.
At the same time, Martina King investors over such matters, the Chairman and the Senior became Chair of the Committee.
The Committee met four Independent Director have met and are available to meet times during the year and, in addition, a number of ad hoc with shareholders as, and when, required.
Additionally, the times to deal with specific issues.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer or acting Chief Financial Officer provide focal points for shareholders Roles and Responsibilities enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
The whole Board The activities of the Remuneration Committee are covered in is kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 74, and shareholders and analysts and it receives reports on changes are incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement in the Companys share register and market movements.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairs of the Audit including making recommendations to the Board on the Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Groups policy on executive remuneration, determining the Committee are available at the AGM to answer questions, individual remuneration and benefits package of each of andthat all Directors attend.
the Executive Directors and monitoring and approving the remuneration of senior management below Board level.
com provides an overview of the business.
Major Group announcements The Remuneration Committee appointed Towers Watson are available on the website and new announcements are now Willis Towers Watson following the merger with Willis in published without delay.
All major announcements are January 2016 as an external adviser in November 2008 and approved by the Chairman and Executive Directors and again took advice from them during the year.
Willis Towers circulated to the Board prior to issue.
The Group also has Watson have no other connection with the Group except internal and external checks to guard against unauthorised as the actuary to the pension schemes of Adelphi-Carlton release of information.
Limited, the Groups operating company in Ireland.
By order of the Board The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration packages of the other senior executives and attends discussions Anthony Bloom by invitation except when his own position is being discussed.
Chairman Given the essential part remuneration plays in the success of 10 March 2016 the Group, the Chairman is also invited to attend meetings of the Committee and does so except when his own remuneration is being considered.
The Committee does not deal with the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 54 to 74.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website www.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 53 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report historically, the Committee has received shareholder support for its actions, and I am grateful to our shareholders for this.
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders strongly supported the approval of our implementation report for 2014.
This positive vote, together with feedback from shareholders during the consultation undertaken during Peter Williams chairmanship, led us to decide that no major changes to our Remuneration Policy Policy were necessary this year.
As with last year, we have continued to apply malus and clawback to our annual bonus and long term incentive plan LTIP in 2015.
The Committee has also started the process of developing a new LTIP, to replace the current plan, which expires in 2017.
Annual Statement The Policy was approved at the AGM in 2014.
As part of Dear Shareholders taking on the role of Committee Chair, I offered to meet with As the new Chair of Cineworlds Remuneration Committee our major shareholders in relation to our Policy.
I am keen to the Committee, I am pleased to present our Remuneration continue and expand this engagement in the coming year.
Report for 2015, for which we will be seeking your approval Ourupdated Policy will be put to shareholders for approval atour Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2016. atthe 2017 AGM.
I would like to thank out-going Chairman, Peter Williams, for 2015 Performance and Remuneration his contribution during the first part of the year, together with The Group delivered a successful year of trading in 2015 with David Maloney, who also left the Committee in May.
To fill the total revenue increasing 13.9% to 705.8m 2014: 619.4m, two places, I was pleased to welcome Rick Senat and Julie and EBITDA up 22.7% at 155.3m 2014: 126.6m.
Rick, our Senior Independent Director week pro-forma basis, Group revenue has grown by 12.4% and and Chairman of the Nomination Committee, and Julie, Chair EBITDA by 18.5%.
This performance enabled a 29.6% increase of the Audit Committee, both joined the Committee in May.
in the full year dividend per share.
The decisions in relation to executive remuneration outcomes made by the Committee Activities over the Year were taken in the context of this performance.
Looking back, it has been another busy period, in many ways linked to the wider integration process of the business Annual bonuses for the Executive Directors, which are based following the Companys combination with Cinema City in on a matrix of Group EBITDA performance against budget, 2014.
As part of our role, we seek to manage remuneration and the achievement of stretching individual objectives, paid and the Groups incentive schemes with the overarching aim of out at the level of 86.6%, 86.6% and 79.7% of base salary for promoting the strategic objectives of the Group.
The goal is to the CEO, Deputy CEO and CFO, respectively equivalent to appropriately incentivise and motivate our people to reach the the same percentages of maximum opportunity.
As EPS targets set, so as to maximise sustainable shareholder return.
performance targets for the PSP were reached over the three Part of our work in the year has therefore been focused on year period 20132015, there was 100% vesting of awards.
extending our share schemes to teams across the expanded Group, to help ensure that this goal is met.
The Remuneration Report Regarding the full report on our activities below, you In addition, while we recognise that our Executive Directors will see that there are two other sections.
The first part, have a significant interest in the shares of the Company, the Annual Report on Remuneration, describes how the already ensuring a strong alignment with the interests of Committee implemented our Policy with regard to the shareholders, we have continued to give careful consideration remuneration of Directors in 2015.
The second part, the to the setting of their personal objectives, which account Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 67 to 74, sets out our for 20% of the annual bonus.
This is again with the aim of Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at motivating our Executive team suitably, and creating the the AGM in 2014 and, as I mention above, remains unchanged essential tie between our remuneration policy and the please note that this section has been included for reference implementation of Group strategy.
purposes and has been re-printed verbatim from the 2013 Annual Report, which is the definitive version of our current Also during the year, the Committee was involved in Policy, as approved by shareholders.
It was also included determining the leaving arrangements of Philip Bowcock, in our 2013 Remuneration Report, which is available on our whowas Chief Financial Officer until 9 June.
Cognisant of all website at www.
com investors reports-andissues involved and, following careful review, we were satisfied presentations yr-2013.
with the final arrangements which were reported at the time, more details of which are set out on page 60.
The Committee has always aimed to be clear and transparent in matters of remuneration and we hope that this report Shareholder Views and Review of Policy continues this approach and is easy to understand A key factor which guides the Committees decision-making andinformative.
is the feedback received from shareholders.
It is pleasing that, Martina King Chair of the Remuneration Committee | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 54 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee Advisers The Remuneration Committee and its Role The Committee once again received advice from Towers At the end of the period, the Companys Remuneration Watson now Willis Towers Watson following the merger Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors, Martina with Willis in early 2016 during the year in relation to the King, Julie Southern and Rick Senat, who are all considered Companys Policy and its implementation in respect of the to be independent.
The Chair of the Committee was Martina Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and SVPs.
King and the Secretary of the Committee was the Company Willis Towers Watson was appointed by the Remuneration Secretary.
David Maloney and Peter Williams, two other Committee in November 2008 following a selection process Non-Executive Directors who were also considered to be involving a number of remuneration consultants.
Their terms independent, were members of the Committee until 26 May of engagement are available on request from the Company 2015 when they stepped down as Directors after nine years Secretary.
They attended two meetings during the year at the of service.
Julie Southern and Rick Senat were appointed to request of the Committee.
Towers Watsons fees for advice the Committee in their place.
Martina King was a member to the Committee were 37,159 2014: 61,500.
Willis Towers throughout the 2015 financial period.
Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities are to: in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
make recommendations to the Board for approval of the During the year, Willis Towers Watson also provided advice Groups broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, to the Board on the salaries of staff below Board level and the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the holiday arrangements.
Willis Towers Watson has no other Companys Senior Vice Presidents SVPs : connections with the Company, except as the actuary to determine the specific remuneration packages of the the pension scheme of Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Groups Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary operating company in Ireland.
The Remuneration Committee and the SVPs: is satisfied that the advice provided on executive remuneration approve the terms of the service agreements of the is objective and independent and that no conflict of interest Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the arises as a result of these other services.
SVPs:and approve the design of, and determine the targets for, The Committee also received assistance from the Chairman  pay schemes and long-term of the Company Tony Bloom, the Chief Executive Officer incentive plans.
Mooky Greidinger, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer Israel Greidinger, the Chief Financial Officer Philip Bowcock until 9 The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee June 2015, the Head of Human Resources Tara Rooney and are available on the Companys website www.
the Company Secretary Richard Ray until 30 June 2015 and com about-us corporate-governance.
The terms are Fiona Smith thereafter, although they did not participate in reviewed annually.
discussions relating to the setting of their own remuneration.
The Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive The Committee met four times during the period and details Officer and received recommendations from him in respect of the members attendance record is set out on page 43. ofchanges to remuneration packages for the SVPs.
In addition to its scheduled meetings, the Committee met anumber of times ad-hoc to deal with specific issues.
Board Changes in 2015 As set out above, David Maloney and Peter Williams, two A summary of the Committees agenda over the period independent Non-Executive Directors, stepped down as isdetailed below: Directors on 26 May 2015, having completed nine years of service.
On the same date, Julie Southern and Alicja reviewing the Chairmans fees and the salaries of the Kornasiewicz were elected by shareholders as independent Executive Directors: Non-Executive Directors.
On 9 June 2015, it was announced setting the salary of the Company Secretary and reviewing that Philip Bowcock, the Chief Financial Officer, was stepping the salaries of the SVPs: down from his position as a Director with immediate effect, deciding the targets for the annual bonus scheme: and would leave the Group on 31 October 2015. making awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Company Share Option Plan CSOP, including Details of all the current Executive Directors contracts, consideration of target calibration and award levels: and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment, reviewing and adjusting the definition of Earnings per are set out in the Policy on pages 72 to 74, except for Alicja Share EPS in the performance conditions attaching Kornasiewicz and Julie Southern which are as follows: toPSP awards: Date of reviewing the 2015 AGM voting figures and considering Director appointment Notice period theviews of shareholders: Alicja Kornasiewicz 26 May 2015 1 month consideration of incentive arrangements for cinemamanagers: Julie Southern 26 May 2015 1 month preparation of this report: and considering the remuneration arrangements across theGroup.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 55 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration for 2015 This section covers the reporting period from 2 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 and provides details of the implementation ofthe Companys Policy during the period.
Those sections of the report which are subject to audit are marked as such.
The Policy, which was approved at the 2014 AGM, is set out at the end of this report for reference purposes.
Note that the Policy included in this report has been printed verbatim from the 2013 Annual Report.
The definitive version of our current remuneration policy as approved by shareholders is included in our 2013 Remuneration Report, which is available on our websitewww.
During the period, the Executive Directors remuneration comprised an annual salary, a performance-related bonus, ashare-based long-term incentive scheme, pension contributions, and other benefits as explained below.
Single Total Figure Table audited information The table below gives a single figure for the total remuneration for each Director for the period.
2 Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant.
The figures inthis table relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
3 The gain on PSP shares vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of 5.58, being the average price for the last three months of the period as PSP will not vest until 15 March 2016, and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
The dividend equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener will amount to 23,370 and to Philip Bowcock will amount to 32,279.
4 Philip Bowcock and Stephen Wiener left the Company on 31 October 2015 and 31 March 2014 respectively.
Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger joined the Company on 27 February 2014.
5 Base salaries and fees were increased on 27 February 2014 following completion of the combination with Cinema City and since then have remained thesame.
6 Exercised early so figure reflects actual value received, but relates to the period in question.
See page 55 of the 2014 Annual Report for details.
7 Details of the actual gains made are set out on page 64.
The actual figures differ from those in the table above reflecting the 2014 Annual Report figures as an estimated value was used of 3.57 a share to calculate the theoretical gain, as the awards option had not been exercised at that time.
8 Alicja Kornasiewicz and Julie Southern joined the Board and David Maloney and Peter Williams left on 26 May 2015.
9 Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months salary paid in lieu of notice amounting to 62,500.
10 Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes the cost of two months benefits paid in lieu of notice amounting to 3,066.
11 Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months pensions allowance paid in lieu of notice amounting to 12,500.
12 The gain on the CSOP options vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of 5.52, being the share price on the date of vesting, as at 10 March 2016 they had not been exercised.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 56 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Base salary Annual 5 1 2 Financial and fees Benefits bonus Sharesave PSP CSOP Total LTI Pension Total Year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Arni Samuelsson 2015 50 50 2014 42 42 Rick Senat 2015 55 55 2014 53 53 8 Julie Southern 2015 39 39 2014 8 Peter Williams 2015 24 24 2014 59 59 1 See page 58 for details of the other benefits provided to the Executive Directors.
Base Salary audited information The base salaries of the Executive Directors are usually reviewed on an annual basis.
As described in the Policy, the Committee compares the Groups remuneration packages for its Executive Directors and employees with those for Directors and employees of similar seniority in companies whose activities are broadly comparable with the Group.
It also takes into account the progress made by the Group, contractual considerations and salary increases across the rest of the Group.
Base salaries were revised in February 2014 on completion of the combination with Cinema City Combination and came into effect on its completion.
The salary levels for the two newly appointed Executive Directors CEO and Deputy CEO and theincrease for the CFO at that point reflected the significant change in size of the Group and its international nature following the Combination.
The salaries of the Executive Directors were then not reviewed in July 2014 as has been the Committees normalpractice.
In July 2015 it was agreed that the Executive Directors salaries would not be increased keeping them at the same level as when they were set in February 2014.
Average salaries across the Group were increased 2.5%.
Salary levels as at the end of the financial period were: 000 1 Mooky Greidinger: 550 p. a.
1 Part of Mooky Greidingers and Israel Greidingers salaries are paid in Israel to enable social security and government healthcare deductions to be made.
Philip Bowcock was the Chief Financial Officer from the start of the period until 9 June 2015 during which time his annual salary was 375,000.
Pension audited information Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan, or alternatively may receive a pension allowance in cash.
The Company contribution to this pension scheme for Executive Directors is 20% of salary.
All the Executive Directors have elected not to participate in this scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance of20% of salary.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 57 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Company pension contributions allowances for the period were: 000 Mooky Greidinger: 110 1 Philip Bowcock: 75 Israel Greidinger: 75 1 Philip Bowcock stepped down as a Director on 9 June 2015 and left the Group on 31 October 2015.
This figure includes two months pensions allowance paid in lieu of notice.
Other Benefits audited information Benefits in kind for Executive Directors comprised the provision of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, life insurance, permanent health insurance, and private medical cover.
Philip Israel Mooky 1 Benefit Bowcock Greidinger Greidinger Car car allowance 14,000 14,000 14,000 Private medical insurance 1,487 Nil Nil Permanent health insurance 3,384 3,390 2,359 Life assurance 1.011 16,172 21,087 Disturbance allowance N A 40,000 40,000 1 Philip Bowcock stepped down as a Director on 9 June 2015 and left the Group on 31 October 2015.
These benefit figures include two months costs paid inlieu of notice and the extension of his private medical insurance for two months.
Israel Greidinger and Mooky Greidinger both received a Disturbance Allowance of 40,000 for the period as, under the terms oftheir employment contracts, they are required to spend a sufficient and proportionate amount of time at the Companys head office in London.
Annual Bonus audited information As described in the Policy, the annual bonus for the year was determined by a matrix of EBITDA compared to budget, and the achievement of specified individual objectives.
The choice of these measures reflect the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
The weighting between the Groups financial performance and personal performance was 80%:20%.
The Committee retains the absolute discretion to apply malus by reducing or withholding annual bonus payments from the formulaic outcome based on EBITDA performance for example, in the event of misconduct or misstatement of financialresults.
The performance of the Company during the year included EBITDA of 155.3m representing 105% of budgeted EBITDA.
Theindividual performance element included objectives focused on continuing to drive growth through successful new cinema openings, customer experience, and the development of teams across the business.
The Committee judged the individual objectives have been achieved at the top level out of five for the CEO and Deputy CEO and the middle level for the CFO.
Philip Bowcock left the Companys employment on 31 October 2015 and so was only eligible for a bonus for the period up to thisdate.
The table below shows the actual performance achieved during the year and the associated bonus outcomes for the ExecutiveDirectors.
Individual Threshold bonus Maximum bonus objective opportunity opportunity Bonus paid % of Bonus paid % of Bonus paid EBITDA performance performance 000 000 maximum base salary 000 Mooky Greidinger 105% of budgeted Above and 98.5 550 86.6 86.6 476 EBITDA achieved Beyond Israel Greidinger 105% of budgeted Above and 67.1 375 86.6 86.6 325 EBITDA achieved Beyond 105% of budgeted 56.0 313 79.7 79.7 248 Philip Bowcock Achieved EBITDA achieved | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 58 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan PSP audited information a Adjustment to the Definition of EPS for PSP Awards As a consequence of the combination with Cinema City in February 2014, the definition of Earnings Per Share EPS as used in PSP awards, was reviewed by the Committee and updated so as to ensure that performance conditions continued to operate as intended, and in a fair and appropriate manner.
It was agreed that for all past PSP awards which had yet to vest and for those to be made in 2015, in calculating the EPS figure for any year, share-based payments would not be added back and the prevailing tax charge should be used.
The Committee was satisfied that the impact of such changes would not be substantial.
The same change would also be applied to awards made under the Company Share Option Plan.
b Awards Vesting Following the End of the Performance Period Ending in December 2015 Awards under the PSP made in March 2013 are due to vest on 15 March 2016.
The performance condition applicable to these awards is summarised below: EPS growth performance Vesting level Less than UK RPI plus 3.0% p. a. Nil UK RPI plus 3.0% p. a.
100% Between UK RPI plus 3.0% and UK RPI plus 8.0% p. a. Straight-line basis The adjusted diluted EPS figure for the year represented compound average annual growth of 21% on a pro-forma basis, compared to the base year, with the result that the level of vesting for this award was 100%.
The number and value of shares thatwill vest to each of the Executive Directors is set out on pages 63 to 65 of this report.
c Awards Made in the Year Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the PSP in April 2015.
The vesting of these awards will be based on Cineworlds three-year EPS growth performance, as summarised in the table below.
Following the combination with Cinema City, the Committee discussed the performance condition at some length and decided for awards in June 2014 to increase significantly the thresholds for lower and upper end vesting from those used for previous awards, and to express targets as absolute growth figures given the significantly increased international nature of the Group following the Combination, making UK RPI a less directly relevant factor.
The same approach was taken in 2015.
However, to reflect the prevailing circumstances andexpectations the thresholds for minimum and maximum vesting were slightly reduced.
EPS growth performance Vesting level Less than 8% p. a. Nil 8% p. a.
100% Between 8% and 16% p. a. Straight-line basis In the past, total shareholder return has been considered as an alternative or additional performance measure, but difficulties in identifying appropriate comparator companies has resulted in the Committee deciding to use EPS as the sole performance measure.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the operation of the PSP each year and the performance conditions for each grant to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and the prevailing internal and external expectations.
Philip Bowcock had a proportional part of his PSP award replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted under the Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan CSOP in prior years, however, not in 2015.
The CSOP options were in all cases subject to performance conditions identical to those applicable to awards under the PSP and this remains the case.
There have not been, and were not in 2015, similar substitutions in respect of the other Executive Directors.
The number and value of share options under the PSP and CSOP which were awarded to the Executive Directors and vested during the period are set out on pages 63 to 65 of this report.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 59 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors Fees audited information The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed following completion of the combination with Cinema City in February 2014 in light of the significant increase in the size and complexity of the Group.
The adjusted fee levels were set in order to be comparable with equivalent fees in companies of broadly similar size and complexity.
The fees were not increased during 2015.
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any share options, bonuses or other performance-related payments, nor do they receive any pension entitlement or other benefits apart from expenses in relation to travel costs to attend Cineworld Board meetings, including related sustenance and accommodation.
Fees as at 2 January 2015 and Position held 31 December 2015 Chairman 175,000 p. a.
1 Audit Committee Chair 15,000 p. a. Remuneration Committee Chair 10,000 p. a.
Committee Member Nil 1 The fee for Audit Committee Chair was increased to 20,000 p. a. with effect from 1 January 2016.
Loss of Office Payments audited information On 9 June 2015 Cineworld agreed with Philip Bowcock that his employment would end on 31 October 2015 the Termination Date, but he would not be required to attend the office unless specifically requested to do so.
During that time he continued to receive salary and benefits in accordance with his service contract and, following the Termination Date, he received an amount equal to two 1 months salary and benefits excluding private health cover in lieu of his remaining notice period totalling 78,000.
The Company agreed to extend his private health cover until 8 June 2016, which would cease if Philip obtains alternative employment providing such cover.
In line with arrangements, he received a time pro-rated bonus for 2015 of 248,000.
Details of the bonus are set out on page 58.
For the purposes of awards under the PSP, the Committee determined that he was a good leaver given his contribution to the Group, and these would therefore vest on the normal vesting dates, subject to the satisfaction of applicable performance targets, on a time pro-rated basis and adjusted for the value of his CSOP awards.
His awards under the CSOP vested and became exercisable from 31 October 2015 on a time pro-rated basis.
Further details are set out on page 65.
The Company also paid 8,500 plus VAT towards the costs of Philips legal fees incurred in connectionwith his cessation of employment.
Details of Philips leaving arrangements were disclosed at the time of his departure on the Companys website.
1 Payments in lieu of notice: salary 62,500, car allowance 2,333, pension 12,500, permanent health insurance 564, life assurance 169.
Payments to Past Directors Steve Wiener, a past Director, who left the Company on 31 March 2014, exercised a PSP award which vested during the year.
In accordance with the Companys Policy, the award had been reduced on a time apportioned basis reflecting the period actually worked, vested on its original vesting date, and remained subject to the requisite performance condition.
He was also provided with private health cover for himself and his wife throughout the period and it will continue until 31 March 2017.
Further details of the cost are set out on page 58.
Other than this, and the payments to Philip Bowcock as described above, there were no payments to past Directors during the financial year.
External Appointments Mooky and Israel Greidinger are both Non-Executive Directors of Global City Holdings N. V. a party connected to them, whichisinterested in 29% of the issued share capital of Cineworld Group plc, and directors of Israel Theatres Limited.
Inrelationto these roles, they did not receive any fees.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 60 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Directors Shareholdings at 31 December 2015 audited information Share options Share options Share options subject to subject to not subject to performance performance performance 1 2 3 Ordinary Shares conditions conditions conditions Executive Directors 4 Israel Greidinger 76,626,344 279,204 4 Mooky Greidinger 76,626,344 410,684 Non-Executive Directors 5 Anthony Bloom 2,208,006 Martina King 2,563 Alicja Kornasiewicz Scott Rosenblum 10,377 Arni Samuelsson Rick Senat 53,874 Julie Southern 1 Relates to unvested awards under the PSP.
2 Relates to CSOP options with identical performance conditions to PSP awards and made at the same time.
3 Relates to share options held under the Sharesave Scheme.
4 S hares are held by Global City Holdings N. V. GCH, a connected party of both Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger.
Israel Greidinger transferred hisentire interest in GCH to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015, following which he ceased to be beneficially interested in ordinary shares in the Company.
5 Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey-based discretional trust, of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2015 and 10 March 2016, including any interests in shares and share options provisionally granted under the PSP and CSOP, are presented above.
As described in the policy table on page 71, each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a period of time, a holding in shares equal to 100% of their base salary.
For the purposes of these guidelines, only beneficially owned shares will count towards the holding.
As at 31 December 2015, Mooky Greidinger met this shareholding requirement through his interest in Global City Holdings N. V. GCH.
Israel Greidinger transferred his entire interest in GCH to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015 and, following the transfer, ceased to be beneficially interested in ordinary shares in the Company.
Therefore, under Cineworlds share ownership guidelines, he will be expected to retain 50% of any shares which he acquires under the PSP or on the exercise of other options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax and other deductions, until such time as he has built up such a holding, so long as, together with his other connected parties, it does not result in a collective holding of 30% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 61 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Seven-Year Total Shareholder Return Performance and CEO Pay The graph below compares the Companys total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure indices over the past seven financial years.
The Remuneration Committee believes these to be the most appropriate comparators as Cineworld is a member of both indices.
For 2014, it represents a combination of two months of Stephen Wiener and ten months of Mooky Greidinger who both held the office of CEO during the period.
2 Mooky Greidinger, CEO, did not have an LTI which vested in the year.
For those who did, the proportion was 100%.
Percentage Increase in CEO remuneration The percentage changes in the value of salary, non-pension benefits and bonus between 2014 and 2015 for the CEO and employees generally are set out in the table below: Employees 1 2 CEO generally Salary 1.8% 2.5% Non-pension benefits 4.1% 16.8% Annual bonus 17.3% 28.3% 1 For 2014, the figures used to calculate the percentages represent a combination of two months of Stephen Wiener who was CEO up to and including 27February 2014 and ten months of Mooky Greidinger, as they both held the office of CEO during the period.
For 2015 these figures related solely toMooky Greidinger.
Mooky Greidingers salary has not been increased since his appointment as CEO on 27 February 2014.
2 The figures reflect increases for UK based monthly salaried employees excluding the senior management group.
This group has been selected as the UKis the country in which the CEO is based.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 62 Total shareholder return rebased to 100 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Relative Importance of Pay Spend The table below shows figures for people costs, shareholder dividends and a number of other significant distributions of turnover that the Committee considers to be relevant in order to provide context to the relevant importance of pay spend.
1 2015 2014 % change Staff and Employee Costs 98.8m 91.7m 8% Of which, Directors remuneration costs 4.2m 3.9m 8% Corporation tax paid 10.4m 12.1m -14% Dividends paid 39.0m 26.9m 45% Retained earnings 96.3m 34.7m 178% 1 Includes cinema business of Cinema City Holdings B. V for ten months.
Shareholder Voting Results from 2015 AGM At the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company held on 26 May 2015, the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report was approved on a show of hands.
The proxy vote was as set out below.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was not put to the vote as it was approved at the AGM held on 8 May 2014.
Number of % of votes votes cast For 210,217,071 97.29% Discretionary 15,367 0.01% Against 5,841,421 2.70% Total votes cast 216,073,859 100% 1 Votes withheld 144,205 1 A vote withheld is not counted as a vote in law.
Share and Share Option Awards Granted and Vesting During the Year audited information Awards or grants were made under the three Share and Share Options Schemes as follows: PSP: Awards consisting of nil cost options over shares were granted to all three Executive Directors equivalent in value to 150% oftheir base salary on 23 April 2015 which will become exercisable after three years.
Details of the awards are set out below.
Awards are subject to continued employment and the achievement of the performance conditions specified on page59.
CSOP: A number of recipients of a PSP had a proportional part of their PSP award replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted under the CSOP.
There was no such substitution in respect of the PSP awards granted to any of the Executive Directors during the year.
Sharesave: A further invitation was made to all UK employees to participate in the Sharesave Scheme in April 2015.
Of the Executive Directors, only Philip Bowcock participated and details are set out below.
Awards granted or vesting during the year: | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 63 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued a Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan Details of awards made and vesting during the period are: Market At At value at 2 January Awarded Vested Exercised Lapsed 31December Exercise date of Exercise 3 2 4 Name of Director 2015 during year during year during year during year 2015 Price exercise period Gain Current Directors 1 Israel Greidinger 117,065 117,065 Nil 23 05 18 22 11 18 1 Mooky Greidinger 171,696 171,696 Nil 23 05 18 22 11 18 Past Directors 1 8 Philip Bowcock 117,065 96,664 20,041 Nil 23 05 18 22 11 18 5 7 97,177 97,177 97,177 Nil 4.7319 26 03 15 490,132 25 09 15 5 6 7 Stephen Wiener 119,038 119,038 119,038 Nil 4.7293 26 03 15 600,078 25 09 15 1 Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share on 22 April 2015, the day before grant, was 4.805.
The face value of the awards to Philip Bowcock, IsraelGreidinger and Mooky Greidinger were 562,500, 562,500 and 825,500 respectively.
All three awards were granted as nil cost options.
2 Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions details of which for the awards made in 2015 are set on page 59.
3 This was the price per share received in respect of those shares which were sold.
4 The gain has been calculated using the realised share price on the date of exercising and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
The dividend equivalent payments amounted to 37,116 for Stephen Wiener and 30,300 for Philip Bowcock.
5 The entitlement was increased for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
6 The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Stephen Wiener left on 31 March 2014 so the performance period had not been completed in full.
7 The performance condition attaching to the grants was satisfied in full.
8 The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 so the performance period will not be completed in full.
Details of the awards vesting in March 2016: Date Number Vesting Number Number Exercise Exercise Name of Director awarded awarded date vesting lapsing price period Past Directors 1 2 Philip Bowcock 15 03 13 92,699 15 03 16 90,176 12,775 Nil 15 03 16 14 09 16 1 2 Stephen Wiener 15 03 13 169,104 15 03 16 65,287 122,519 Nil 15 03 16 14 09 16 1 The entitlement was subsequently adjusted for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
2 The performance condition has been satisfied in full so there was no reduction in the shares vesting, but there is a reduction to take account of the fact that PhilipBowcock left on 31 October 2015 and Steve Wiener left on 31 March 2014 so the performance period in each case had not been completed in full.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 64 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE b Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan No Director was granted an option during the period.
Details of options vesting during the period are: Market At Awarded Vested Lapsed Exercised At 31 value at Earliest 2 January during during during during December Exercise date of date of 8 3 Name of Director 2015 year year year year 2015 price exercise exercise Expiry date Gain Past Directors 1 4 2 6 Philip Bowcock 5,213 5,213 5,213 1.9179 5.030 26 03 13 30 04 16 16,224 1 4 5 2 9 7 7 9 3,983 3,776 207 3,776 2.5099 01 11 15 30 04 16 1 5 2 9 7 7 9 2,891 1,778 1,113 1,778 3.459 01 11 15 30 04 16 1 HMRC approved share options.
2 Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant adjusted for the rights issue in February 2014 if applicable.
3 Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions details of which are set out on page 88.
4 The entitlement was increased for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
5 The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 so the performance period had not been completed in full.
However, the Remuneration Committee decided that the performance conditions attaching to the grants were or would be treated as fully satisfied which resulted in 100% and 100% vesting in the two respective grants.
6 Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 and in accordance with the rules of the plan had six months from his leaving date to exercise.
7 Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 and in accordance with the rules of the plan had six months from his leaving date to exercise.
Ordinarily the period for exercise would have been 15.03.16 14.03.23 and 06.06.17 05.06.24 respectively.
8 The gain has been calculated using the share price realised on the date of exercise being 5.030.
9 These CSOP options vested on 31 October 2015 but, as at 10 March, they had not been exercised.
The share price on vesting was 5.52.
Details of the awards vesting in March 2016: No Director, past or present, holds a CSOP option which will vest in 2016 financial year.
c Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme An invitation was issued during the period to all eligible staff including Executive Directors to participate in the Sharesave Scheme in April 2015.
Details of the options vesting, granted, and lapsing during the period are set out below: Market At Awarded Vested Lapsed Exercised At 31 Value at Earliest 2 January during during during during December Exercise date of date of Expiry 4 1 Name of Director 2015 year year year year 2015 price exercise exercise date Gain Past Directors 1 3 2 Philip Bowcock 5,810 5,810 5,810 1.5487 5.135 01 06 15 30 11 15 20,829 1 5 6 4,687 4,687 3.84 01 07 18 31 12 18 1 Subject to regular monthly savings being made with the Yorkshire Building Society.
2 Adjusting the shares under the option for the Rights Issue in February 2014 means that the exercise price was reduced from 1.72.
3 Adjusting the shares under the option for the Rights Issue in February 2014 means that the number of shares was increased from 5,232.
4 The gain has been calculated using the mid-market closing share price on 4 June 2015, the date the shares were issued, as they were retained byPhilipBowcock and not sold.
5 Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015.
6 The exercise price represents the average mid-market closing share price for the three business days prior to the invitation date, with a 20% discountapplied.
No Sharesave option held by a Director is due to vest in the 2016 financial year.
Implementation of Policy in 2016 For the 2016 financial period, the salaries and other benefits of the Executive Directors have been reviewed in the usual manner.
Salary levels for the Executive Directors will be increased by 2.5% from 1 July 2016.
Average increases for staff are anticipated tobe in the range of 2.5% to 3%.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity will remain at 100% of salary for the Executive Directors.
Bonus payments in relation to2016 will be subject to Committee discretion to apply malus as described on page 58.
Following payment, the Committee willretain the discretion to claw back bonuses in the case of misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 65 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued The face value of awards under the PSP will be 150% of salary.
The Committee is considering the calibration of EPS growth targets applicable to PSP awards to be made in 2016, taking into account internal and external performance expectations.
Thecalibration of these targets has not been finalised at the date of this Annual Report.
However, the proportion of an award vesting for threshold performance will remain at 30%, with 100% vesting for stretch performance.
Given the significantly increased international nature of the Group following the combination with Cinema City, the Committee continues to believe thatUK RPI is a less directly relevant factor and will therefore express the targets as absolute growth levels.
For PSP awards from 2016, in addition to the EPS performance condition, the Committee, in its absolute discretion, will need to be satisfied that an award holder has performed their duties at a satisfactory level over the three years from date of grant in order for awards to vest.
The Committee therefore will retain the absolute discretion to apply malus to unvested awards, by reducing or withholding vesting.
Following vesting, the Committee will also retain the discretion to claw back PSP shares in the case ofmisconduct or misstatement of financial results.
Incorporation by Reference The sections The Remuneration Committee and its Role and Remuneration Committee Advisers also form part of the Corporate Governance Statement, and are incorporated into that statement by reference.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 66
