GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Leadership The Board The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of the Company.
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Group and for determining its long-term objectives and commercial strategy to create and deliver strong and sustainable financial performance to enhance shareholder value.
In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that necessary financial and other resources are available to enable the Groups objectives to be met.
The basis on which the Board seeks to preserve value over thelonger term and the strategy for delivering the objectives is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 34.
The Board meets regularly at least six times a year and also once for a strategy day.
Ad hoc meetings of the Board take place as required.
The meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
The Board also meets, as and when necessary, to discuss and approve, if appropriate, specific issues.
All Directors receive notice of such meetings and are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board has been agreed and adopted.
These matters include: settingGroup strategy: approving an annual budget and medium-term forecasts: reviewing operational and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: approval of site selection: succession planning: approving appointments to the Board and of the Company Secretary, and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and contracts.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed management accounts and an overview of Group financial and operational information.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, Mooky Greidinger, is clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads the Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders.
He is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman also facilitates the effective contribution ofNon-Executive Directors and oversees the performance evaluation of the Board and he regularly discusses matters with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group.
He holds regular meetings with his executive team consisting of senior executives who assist him in this task.
Board Committees In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed three Committees, an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a Remuneration Committee, to which certain Board functions have been delegated.
Each of these Committees has formal written terms of reference which clearly define their responsibilities.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards three Committees are available on the Companys website www.
Changes to Membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees At the start of the period, membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees was: Chair Member Member Audit Committee David Maloney Martina King Peter Williams Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson Remuneration Committee Peter Williams Martina King David Maloney Following the AGM, it was announced on 27 May 2015, that the membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees had changed with effect from 26 May 2015 and became as set out below.
It remained the same through to the endofthe period: Chair Member Member Audit Committee Julie Southern Martina King Alicja Kornasiewicz Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson Remuneration Committee Martina King Rick Senat Julie Southern All the Committees remained compliant with the Governance Code as regards their membership during the year.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 42 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Attendance at Meetings The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Board including Audit Remuneration Nomination strategy day Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 7 5 4 2 Attended Attended Attended Attended Directors for the whole year 1 3 3 3 Anthony Bloom 7 7 5 5 4 4 2 2 Israel Greidinger 7 7 N A N A N A Mooky Greidinger 7 7 N A N A N A 1 Martina King 6 7 5 5 3 4 N A Scott Rosenblum 7 7 N A N A 2 2 Arni Samuelsson 7 7 N A N A 2 2 2 1 Rick Senat 7 7 N A 2 2 2 2 Directors appointed 2 2 Alicja Kornasiewicz appointed 26 May 2015 5 5 3 3 N A N A 2 1 2 2 Julie Southern appointed 26 May 2015 5 5 3 3 2 2 N A Directors leaving during the year 5 Philip Bowcock directorship ceased 9 June 2015 3 3 N A N A N A 4 4 4 4 David Maloney directorship ceased 26 May 2015 1 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 4 4 4 4 Peter Williams directorship ceased 26 May 2015 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 Chairman of Board Board Committee.
2 Alicja Kornasiewicz and Julie Southern were appointed on 26 May 2015 and Rick Senat became a member of the Remuneration Committee on the same date.
There were five Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, and two Remuneration Committee meetings between 26 May 2015 and31December 2015, so they have each attended the maximum number of relevant meetings.
3 Anthony Bloom, the Chairman of the Company, attended these meetings by invitation.
4 David Maloney and Peter Williams ceased to be Directors on 26 May 2015.
There had been two Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, twoRemuneration Committee meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting in the period up to this date.
5 Philip Bowcock ceased to be a Director on 9 June 2015.
There had been three Board meetings in the period up to this date, so he attended the maximum number of meetings.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 43
