Corporate governance Dear Shareholders Corporate governance report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Circassias Corporate Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate governance report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
It describes Governance Code how the Board and its Committees apply the principles of good corporate The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out the governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the principles of good practice in relation to corporate governance which Financial Reporting Council the Code.
should be followed by companies with a listing on the London Stock High standards of corporate governance are fundamental to our Exchange.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council business and are implemented and supported through appropriate FRC and the most recent edition September 2014 can be found internal policies and procedures.
The responsibility for ensuring this on their website www.
framework is effective lies with the Board, and we are constantly The principles of the Code are divided into five sections.
Each section striving to improve standards while building a successful company.
sets out the main principles relating to Leadership: Effectiveness: These same high standards have been applied following the Accountability: Remuneration: and Relations with Shareholders.
acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix, to ensure that governance This report explains how Circassia has applied these principles.
is well embedded throughout the Group.
The Directors support high standards of corporate governance.
One area on which the Board has focused in particular since Listing However, as is explained below, the Company has not complied with relates to its composition.
As we explained at the time of Listing, the the recommendations of the Code that at least half the Board should Board believes that at this critical point in its development the Group comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
benefits from the knowledge and experience of the full range of its Non-Executive Directors but has been looking to appoint further In addition, until 27 February 2015 the Company did not comply with Independent Non-Executive Directors.
I am therefore pleased to report the requirement that the Audit and Risk Committee should comprise that we were able to make two such appointments in the course of only Independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, since the the year.
On 9 February 2015, Ms Lota Zoth joined the Board as an appointment of Lota Zoth to the Audit and Risk Committee which Independent Non-Executive Director.
Ms Zoth has recent and relevant occurred on 27 February 2015, the Audit and Risk Committees financial experience and was appointed Chair of the Audit and Risk composition has complied in full with the independence requirements Committee on 27 February 2015.
In addition, Mr Marvin Samson joined of the Code.
the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 8 December Further, from 15 September 2014 to 9 February 2015 the Company 2015.
He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on did not comply with the requirement that the Remuneration Committee 9th February 2016. consists only of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, Mr Paul Edick, who has served as a Non-Executive Director since since the appointment of Lota Zoth to the Remuneration Committee 3 April 2013 has announced that he does not intend to seek re-election on 9 February 2015, the Remuneration Committees composition has at the Companys 2016 Annual General Meeting.
We are very grateful complied in full with the independence requirements of the Code.
to Paul for his significant contribution.
At the beginning of 2015, the Board consisted of ten members, the Maintaining good communication with our Shareholders is extremely Chairman who was independent on appointment, three Executive important to us.
During the year, Steven Harris, our CEO has held Directors, and six Non-Executive Directors.
Of the six Non-Executive a number of meetings with investors and current shareholders, and Directors, two were considered by the Board to be independent.
presented at several conferences which were attended by existing Following the appointment of Lota Zoth on 9 February 2015 and and potential Shareholders.
Communications with Shareholders are the appointment of Marvin Samson on 8 December 2015, the coordinated by the Head of Corporate Communications, who reports number of Independent Non-Executive Directors has risen to four.
The independence ratio of the Board excluding the Chairman was therefore 22% at the beginning of year, but rose to 30% from Dr Francesco Granata 9 February 2015, and to 36% by the end of the year.
Moreover, Paul Chairman Edick, has announced that he does not intend to stand for re-election at the Companys 2016 Annual General Meeting and accordingly, from 18 May 2016, the independence ratio is expected to rise further, to 40%.
The Board believes that at this point in the Groups development it is important that it has access to the expertise and knowledge of its Non-Executive Directors.
Moreover, the Company has been successful in recruiting two additional Independent Non-Executive Directors and so the proportion of the Board which comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors has been steadily increased over the course of the past year.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 40 The composition of the three Board Committees throughout the year The Groups Auditor,  LLP, is required to and the extent to which their composition complied with the provisions review whether this Corporate governance statement properly reflects of the Code, was as follows: the Groups compliance with certain provisions of the Code and to report any non-compliance.
The Group confirms that no report of Nomination Committee non-compliance has been made other than in respect of the matters The Code requires that a majority of the members of the identified above in relation to Board composition.
Committee should be Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Committee should be chaired by the Chairman or an Leadership Independent Non-Executive Director.
Throughout the year, The role of the Board the Committee was composed of the following members: The Board is responsible for the leadership and long-term success Dr Francesco Granata Chairman and Chair of the Committee : of the business.
It has a schedule of matters which are reserved Dr Tim Corn, and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud.
Two-thirds of the for its review.
These include the review and approval of strategic Committee was therefore made up of Independent Non-Executive plans, financial statements and budgets, financing, acquisitions and Directors, with the remaining place filled by the Chairman.
disposals, major capital expenditure, dividend policy, making key risk The composition of the Nomination Committee therefore decisions, monitoring health, safety and environmental performance, complied fully with the recommendations of the Code.
and Executive remuneration and appointments.
Remuneration Committee At each meeting, the Board assesses the progress of the Group when The Code requires that the Committee should comprise a measured against its objectives, particularly those which relate to its minimum of three Directors, all of whom should be independent.
clinical trials programmes, and reviews financial performance against For the period from 1 January 2015 until 9 February 2015, the the budget.
Committee members were: Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud Chair of the Committee : Dr Tim Corn and Mr Paul Edick.
As Mr Edick Roles and responsibilities was not considered to be independent at the time, the composition The Board is currently composed of the Chairman, three Executive of the Committee did not comply with the requirements of the Directors, and eight Non-Executive Directors.
The biographies Code for this period.
However, on 9 February 2015 Mr Edick of the members of the Board who served during the year to was succeeded by Ms Lota Zoth, who was and is independent.
31 December 2015 are set out on pages 38 to 39 of this report.
On 9 February 2016 Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud stepped down as The Executive Directors have direct responsibility for the business Chair of the Committee and was replaced by Mr Marvin Samson.
The Non-Executive Directors, by virtue of As both Dr Garaud and Mr Samson are independent, this had their wide range of industry experience and skills, bring an informed no impact on the independent composition of the Committee.
view to the decision making process.
Therefore, from 9 February 2015 until the end of the year and up to the date of this report, the Committee complied with the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly membership requirements of the Code insofar as they relate to delineated.
This division of responsibilities has been set out in writing independence.
and approved by the Board.
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman The Code requires that the Committee should comprise a minimum Dr Francesco Granata, Chairman, is responsible for the leadership of of three Directors, all of whom should be independent.
For the the Board and its effectiveness by ensuring that: period from 1 January 2015 to 27 February 2015, the Committee the agenda for meetings is appropriate, and the Board is provided was made up of three members: Ms Cathrin Petty Chair of the with the information it needs for high quality decision making in a Committee : Dr Tim Corn: and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud.
Ms Petty timely fashion: has recent and relevant financial experience but is not considered the Board plays a full and constructive role in shaping the strategy to be independent.
Therefore, for this period, the composition of of the Group: the Committee did not fully comply with the requirements of the the Board environment is productive and utilises the skills and Code.
However, Ms Petty was succeeded by Ms Lota Zoth on experience of all members: 27 February 2015 who has recent and relevant financial experience the Board complies with the appropriate standards of corporate and is independent.
Therefore, from 27 February 2015 until the governance: end of the year and up to the date of this report, the membership the Committees are properly structured and resourced: of the Audit and Risk Committee complied with the membership the performance of the Board, its Committees, and individual requirements of the Code insofar as they relate to independence.
Directors are evaluated each year: and The Board confirms that in all other respects, the Group has fully there is effective communication with Shareholders.
complied with the principles of the Code throughout the year to The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met in the absence 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this report.
Details of of the Executive Directors at the end of each Board meeting which Directors remuneration, as required by the Code and Part 4 to occurred in 2015.
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, are set out Chief Executive Officer in the Remuneration Committee report.
Steven Harris, Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for the day to day management of the Company and for implementing the strategy which has been reviewed and approved by the Board.
He is also responsible for ensuring effective communication with Shareholders, brokers, and analysts.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 41 Corporate governance continued Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Board Committees Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud has been Senior Independent The Board has three Committees: the Audit and Risk Committee: Non-Executive Director since 21 February 2014.
He works closely with the Nomination Committee: and the Remuneration Committee, to the Chairman to resolve any significant issues which may arise and is which it delegates specific responsibilities.
The reports of these responsible for the annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance, Committees and details of their composition form part of the for leading the other Non-Executive Directors in their oversight of the Corporate governance report.
Chairman, and for ensuring there is a clear division of responsibilities Each Committee has full terms of reference which have been approved between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
He is available by the Board and also appear on the website at www.
to communicate directly with Shareholders if they have concerns which These terms of reference are reviewed annually.
The Board provides cannot be resolved through the normal channels of the Chairman, the Committees with sufficient resources, including access to external Chief Executive Officer, or Chief Financial Officer.
advisers, as may be required in order to fulfil their roles.
Non-Executive Directors Board meetings The role of the Non-Executive Directors, and of the Committees The Board aims to meet at least five times during the year.
of which they are members, is to scrutinise the performance of Additional meetings may be arranged where urgent matters arise.
management, satisfy themselves that the financial and risk control These additional meetings may be held by telephone.
mechanisms are robust, and determine appropriate levels of Executive pay.
They have wide ranging experience of industry and bring their The table below sets out the attendance of the Directors, while they judgement to bear in the decision making process of the Board.
were Board members, at scheduled meetings which occurred during Their seniority and range of skills ensure that no one individual can the year to 31 December 2015. dominate this process.
Audit Committee Independent Nomination and Risk Remuneration Memberships status Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors 1 1 1 Steven Harris n a n a 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 Julien Cotta n a n a 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 Rod Hafner n a n a 5 5 Non-Executive Directors Francesco Granata N Chair Yes 5 5 2 2 Jean-Jacques Garaud A, R Chair, N Yes 5 5 1 2 3 4 3 3 Tim Corn A, R, N Yes 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 Russell Cummings No 5 5 3 Paul R Edick R No 5 5 1 1 4 Cathrin Petty A Chair No 5 5 1 1 Charles Swingland No 5 5 5 6 7 Lota Zoth A, R Yes 5 5 3 3 3 3 8 Marvin Samson Yes N Nomination Committee, R Remuneration Committee, A Audit Committee 1 By invitation 2 In the capacity of Secretary to the Committee 3 Until 9 February 2015 when he was succeeded by Ms Lota Zoth 4 Until 27 February 2015 when she was succeeded by Ms Lota Zoth who was in attendance but not formally present at the first meeting of the year 5 Appointed to the Board 9 February 2015 6 Appointed to the Committee as Chair 27 February 2015 7 Appointed to the Committee 9 February 2015 8 Appointed to the Board 8 December 2015 at the end of the Board meeting Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 42 Board activity Appointments to the Board The Boards main activities during the course of the year included: The procedure for appointment of new Directors to the Board is formal, rigorous and transparent.
The process is led by the Nomination Committee Regular reviews of risk management: which comprises the Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Reviews of the progress of the Groups clinical trials: Shortlisted candidates are interviewed by members of the Committee Progression and ultimate approval of the acquisitions of Aerocrine before a recommendation is made to the Board.
AB and Prosonix Limited and the placing and open offer which raised 275M to fund those acquisitions: Diversity Reviews of the progress of business and corporate development The Board recognises the value of diversity at all levels of the Group.
activity and opportunities: The Group has an Equal Treatment, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Conducting an in-depth review of the Groups strategy over a policy which extends to the Board.
This provides that the Group will period of two days: employ and promote employees on the basis of their abilities and Assessment of the financial performance against the budget for qualifications without regard to age, disability, gender reassignment, FY 2015: marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race including Approval of the budget for FY 2016 2018: colour, nationality and ethnic or national origins, religion or belief, sex or Completion of a Board evaluation exercise.
The Group appoints, trains, develops and promotes on the basis of merit alone.
Following the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix, the Board has focused on ensuring that these businesses have been effectively Induction and training integrated into the Group and its governance framework.
Prior to this Upon appointment, each Director receives a comprehensive acquisition the Group was developing pharmaceutical products but did induction package which includes written materials relevant to their not have any marketed pharmaceutical products or medical devices.
In addition, meetings are organised with other Board As Aerocrine markets approved devices in the US, Europe and members and with members of the Companys management team.
elsewhere, the Board has paid particular attention to those aspects All Directors have direct access to the advice of the Company of governance which relate to healthcare compliance.
Whenever it is considered necessary, the Company Secretary can arrange the appointment of professional advisers at Effectiveness the Groups expense to assist Board members in their roles.
Independence The Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive Directors Directors receive frequent updates on commercial developments each year.
For the period 1 January 2015 to 9 February 2015, excluding affecting the business as well as regulatory and legislative changes.
the Chairman, two of the nine Board members were Non-Executive Directors are invited, during the annual evaluation procedure, to identify Directors who were considered by the Board to be independent.
any training which they feel might benefit them.
For the period from 9 February 2015 to 8 December 2015, three out of Information ten Board members were considered to be Independent Non-Executive In advance of each Board Meeting, Directors receive a full agenda Directors and from 8 December 2015 to 31 December 2015 four out and a comprehensive set of papers which include commercial and of eleven Board members were considered to be Independent Nonfunctional reports.
A procedure is in place to ensure that these Executive Directors.
materials are delivered to the Board in a timely fashion.
Senior Dr Tim Corn and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud have participated in the employees of the business regularly attend meetings in order to Companys unapproved share option scheme in the past.
However, this enhance the Non-Executive Directors understanding of current issues scheme is unrelated to performance, such participation was historic, and and give them the opportunity to ask detailed questions.
no further share options will be granted to these Directors.
The Board has Commitment therefore determined that it regards Dr Tim Corn and Dr Jean-Jacques The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of the Chairman and Garaud as Independent Non-Executive Directors within the meaning of Non-Executive Directors which are set out in their biographies leave independent as defined in the Code for the period 1 January 2015 to them with sufficient time to diligently perform their role for the Group.
Performance evaluation The Board also carefully reviews any actual or potential conflicts Formal Board evaluations are carried out once a year, and informal of interest that may arise due to the commercial interests of Nonevaluations are carried out on a continuing basis throughout the year.
Executive Directors and they are required to make a declaration in The formal evaluation commences with the circulation of a written respect of any such situations.
The Board can confirm that no new questionnaire which has been prepared by the Company Secretary conflicts of interest arose in the year.
As is noted in their respective with the assistance of the Auditors.
This invites Directors to rate and biographies, Cathrin Petty is an employee of JP Morgan and Russ comment on the performance of the Board in a number of areas, Cummings is an employee of Imperial Innovations.
For these reasons, including the conduct of Board meetings: the standard and timeliness Russ Cummings and Cathrin Petty are considered by the Board not to of information: the balance of skills of the members of the Board: the be independent.
Paul Edick is also considered not to be independent roles and responsibilities of individual Directors: and compliance with as his wife has been employed as the Groups Chief Commercial good corporate governance practices.
A detailed, anonymised analysis Officer since 15 September 2014. of these responses is then prepared by the Company Secretary and The Code indicates that a tenure of more than nine years as a reviewed and discussed by the Board.
Non-Executive Director could be relevant to a determination of The Board intends to subject itself to an external review every third independence.
As of 1 August 2015 Tim Corn had served nine years as year.
No external review occurred in 2014 or 2015.
Accordingly it is a Non-Executive Director.
Nonetheless, as he has no business, financial anticipated that there will be an external review in 2016. or other connections with the Group beyond his directorship except for the historic share option awards referred to above it is considered that his independence is not compromised by his length of tenure and the Board is satisfied that he remains independent in character and judgement.
It is confirmed that none of the other Independent Non-Executive Directors have served for more than nine years.
The Board further confirms that Dr Francesco Granata was independent upon his appointment.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 43 Corporate governance continued Re-election The Groups primary risk control systems are as follows: All Directors have service contracts which are capable of termination Management structure on giving a fixed period of notice.
In the case of the Executive Directors There is a management structure with clear lines of responsibility this notice period is six months and in the case of the Non-Executive and accountability.
Employees are recruited when they have the Directors and Chairman it is three months.
appropriate skills and experience to perform their intended roles.
All Directors are subject to re-election by Shareholders on an annual basis.
The Board sets the overall strategy and reviews the performance of the Group.
Accountability The Groups Senior Management Team, chaired by the The Board acknowledges its duty to present a fair, balanced Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for day to day operations.
and understandable view of the Groups position and prospects.
Other team members comprise the Chief Financial Officer, A description of the Groups business model is contained in the Senior Vice President R&D, Chief Commercial Officer, Strategic report.
The Statement of Directors responsibilities sets out Chief Business Officer, Vice President Human Resources, information regarding the Directors responsibility to prepare financial and General Counsel.
The Independent Auditors report includes a statement Written policies and procedures by the Auditor on its reporting responsibilities.
There are documented quality procedures which ensure The role of the Audit Committee is set out in detail in the Audit regulatory compliance.
Regular reviews take place to ensure Committee report.
standards are maintained and the Company is fully prepared for a regulatory inspection.
The Vice President, Quality Assurance The Board is responsible for determining the significant risks which the and her team monitor internal and external Contract Research Group is prepared to take in order to attain its strategic objectives, and Organisation and Contract Manufacturing Organisation keeps the risk management procedures and internal controls of the compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice, Good Clinical business under regular review.
The Board confirms that it is satisfied Practice, and Good Laboratory Practice and organise training for that the current procedures and controls are sufficient to ensure employees.
The Vice President, Global Compliance Officer maintains policies After taking advice from the Audit Committee, the Board is able to which relate to healthcare compliance, including but not limited to confirm that the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole is fair, the Groups Whistleblowing policy which enables employees to balanced, and understandable and provides the information necessary communicate concerns regarding improper activity to a trusted for Shareholders to judge the Groups strategy, business model, individual who is not their line manager or a member of the senior position and performance.
management team, the Groups Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption policy, and the Groups privacy and data protection policies.
Viability statement There are controls in place which determine how financial The Company prepares a three year budget which was reviewed information is validated, consolidated and reviewed.
and approved by the Board at its meeting on 8 December 2015.
There are specific controls on expenditure.
Material investments The budget pack also contains a sensitivity analysis which allows the or capital expenditure must be approved by the Board.
Normal Board to assess the potential financial impact of certain significant expenditure is controlled by setting limits which are determined potential scenarios which might arise.
This includes the possibility of by the CEO and CFO within a general framework approved by the negative clinical results for the pivotal phase III cat allergy treatment Board.
This process informs the Viability Statement which the Board Detailed management accounts are prepared on a monthly basis gives on page 37 of this report.
and provided to the Board.
Accompanying reports will explain Risk management system any variances between these results and the budget.
A description of the risk management system is set out in the Strategic The R&D Committee meets on a weekly basis to review report.
The system is designed to manage risks, not to eliminate them performance of the various clinical trials and implement action completely, and can only provide a reasonable degree of assurance plans to prevent delays.
against material misstatement or loss.
Inherent in the concept of The Patents Committee meets regularly to assess the scope of reasonable assurance is the recognition that the cost of a control protection provided by pending and granted patents, organise procedure should not exceed its anticipated benefits.
The principal risks the defence of granted patents, and plan new filings where facing the Group are set out in the Strategic report.
This group also manages registered trade marks.
There are physical and electronic procedures in place to ensure The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the Groups risk the security and integrity of data and confidential information.
management and internal controls systems, including financial, operational An established policy exists for share dealing by employees or and compliance controls and has found them to be effective.
Internal controls The Health and Safety Policy is maintained and reviewed by the The Audit Committee reviews the Groups financial controls on Health and Safety Committee.
an annual basis and makes recommendations to the Board where There is a Disclosure Committee, as required by the Market improvements are required.
The efficacy of control systems are Abuse Directive, comprising the Chief Executive Officer, Chief reviewed by the full Board as required by the FRC Guidance on Financial Officer, and the Head of Corporate Communications.
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and The Chief Business Officer under the direction of this Committee Business Reporting.
maintains an Insider List recording employees and external parties who may have access to inside information.
Individuals are notified of their addition to and removal from the list and are appraised of their responsibilities.
No failure of controls or breach of internal policies was recorded during the year to 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this report.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 44 Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee report The Board has adopted a remuneration policy approved by Dear Shareholder shareholders at the 2015 AGM which it believes is sufficient to attract, On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Circassias Audit and retain, and motivate Directors of the quality required to run the Group Risk Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2015. successfully, but which does not result in payment of more than is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of Executive The Audit and Risk Committee is the key independent oversight Directors pay is linked to corporate and individual performance.
It monitors and reviews the effectiveness of details of the policy are set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
the Groups risk management framework and internal controls.
This report sets out how the Committee has discharged its Relations with Shareholders responsibilities under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Dialogue with Shareholders Code.
It also contains a summary of the activities of the Committee The Board maintains regular communication with Shareholders.
Meetings between material Shareholders and the Executive Directors take place throughout the year.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Lota S Zoth Non-Executive Director and other Directors are available to meet with Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee major Shareholders on request.
11 March 2016 All meetings with Shareholders are held in a manner which ensures price sensitive information which has not been made available to Responsibilities Shareholders generally is protected from disclosure.
The Committee has responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, and for reviewing the effectiveness The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer give annual of the Groups internal control systems and risk management systems, and six-monthly presentations to institutional investors, analysts, and including reviewing its risk profile.
These presentations are available on the website.
Annual and Interim reports and all press releases are also published on the Accordingly, the Committee performs a detailed review of the interim website as are the terms of reference of the three Board committees.
and annual financial statements, considering whether the accounting Paper copies of the report and accounts are mailed to those policies have been applied properly and consistently and whether the Shareholders who have elected to receive them.
disclosures made in the Annual report and accounts are compliant with financial reporting standards, and with corporate governance and The Directors receive a report from the Corporate Communications regulatory requirements.
department at each Board Meeting giving information on material changes in shareholdings and collating feedback from the Companys The Committee also manages the relationship with the external brokers and investors.
Auditors on behalf of the Board.
It monitors the independence of the Auditor and reviews the effectiveness of the audit procedure.
Annual General Meeting The Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding The AGM provides an opportunity for all Shareholders to meet Board the appointment of the external Auditors and reviews their terms members and have the opportunity to ask about the proposed of engagement.
The Committee has access to the services of the resolutions and the business in general.
external Auditors and, if necessary, may appoint external accounting Notice of the AGM is posted to Shareholders not less than 20 working and legal advisers to assist it with its work.
days prior to the date of the AGM and is also available to Shareholders A significant development during the year related to healthcare on the website at www.
Following the acquisition of Aerocrine, the Group now the Notice will include details of the proposed resolutions and an markets approved devices to healthcare professionals in a number explanation of their content.
of markets around the world.
Prior to the acquisition, Aerocrine At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast for, against, or abstaining had developed policies and procedures to ensure compliance with from each resolution will be disclosed.
Results of voting are announced healthcare laws and regulations concerning the sale of such products to the market and posted on the website as soon as possible after and following the integration into the Group additional resources have the AGM.
been applied to this area.
An experienced compliance professional was appointed as Vice President, Global Compliance Officer in October The Group does not currently consider it appropriate to introduce 2015.
The VP, Global Compliance Officer has a direct reporting line to mandatory poll voting on all resolutions put to the Shareholders but the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and will provide updates in will keep this position under review.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
They cover issues such as membership and the frequency of meetings, together with requirements for a quorum and the right to attend meetings.
The duties of the Committee as set out in the terms of reference include financial and regulatory reporting: internal controls: internal audit: external audit: risk management: and reporting responsibilities.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 45 Corporate governance continued Membership Financial reporting The names of the members of the Audit Committee, their dates of During the year to 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this report, appointment, and the number of meetings attended during the year are the Committee reviewed the interim management statements, the set out in the table below: Interim report and accounts for the period ended 30 June 2015 and the preliminary announcement and Annual report and accounts for the Meetings year ended 31 December 2015.
Member Date of appointment attended held 1 Significant accounting matters C Petty 21 February 2014 1 1 The Committee considered the following key accounting issues, T Corn 21 February 2014 4 4 judgements and disclosures during the course of the year: J-J Garaud 21 February 2014 3 4 L S Zoth 27 February 2015 3 3 Accounting for acquisition costs: 1 Resigned from the Committee 27 February 2015 Allocation of goodwill to cash generating units and testing for impairment: The first Committee meeting of the year was chaired by Cathrin Measuring the fair value of awards under share option schemes Petty.
At the end of that meeting Ms Petty stepped down and was and the related accounting treatment: succeeded as Chair by Lota S Zoth.
Recognition of deferred tax assets.
The Code provides that all members of the Audit and Risk Committee should be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Cathrin Petty is not considered by the Board to be independent and so for the period to 27 February 2015 the Company did not comply with the provisions of the Code in this regard.
However, following the appointment of Ms Lota Zoth as the new Chair of the Audit Committee on 27 February 2015 the Company has complied with this requirement as Ms Zoth is considered to be independent.
Ms Zoth has significant recent and relevant financial experience.
She is a Non-Executive Director, Compensation Committee Member and the Audit Committee Chair at Hyperion Therapeutics Inc and NewLink Genetics Corporation.
She is also a Non-Executive Director and the Audit Committee Chair at Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. She was also Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President at MedImmune, LLC from 2004 to 2007.
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
The CEO attends Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chair.
The Chair of the Committee meets with the external Auditors at least once a year in the absence of management.
A summary of the matters considered by the Committee since the last financial statements is shown in the table below and explained in further detail in the subsequent text: Area of review Activities undertaken Financial reporting Review of the interim and full year results.
Consideration of whether the Annual report is fair, balanced, and understandable.
Review of the external Auditors reports on the interim and full year results.
Review of significant accounting issues see below.
Review of anticipated changes in accounting standards and their impact.
Review of the viability statement and going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements.
External Auditor Review of external Auditors independence.
Review of Auditors compliance with ethical and professional guidance on audit partner rotation.
Assess effectiveness of audit process.
Risk management and Review of risk, risk management systems, internal controls, and anti-corruption and anti-bribery procedures.
internal control Review of internal compliance monitoring.
Governance Review of the Committees terms of reference.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 46 Acquisition accounting for Aerocrine and Prosonix The new scheme is split into two categories: one for senior Following the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix in June 2015, the management and one for other employees.
Under both categories, Company is required to comply with the accounting and reporting the awards are split between two tranches.
Tranche A vesting is requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The core principle of subject to market performance conditions related to total shareholder this standard is that an acquirer of a business recognises the assets return TSR.
Tranche B vesting is subject to non-market performance acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition date fair values and conditions related to period of service and achievement of set discloses information that enables users to evaluate the nature and milestones in drug development programmes.
financial effects of the acquisition.
Historically the Group calculated the IFRS 2 charge using the Black Valuation specialists were retained to carry out a purchase price Scholes model.
This model was not sophisticated enough to incorporate allocation PPA exercise for both acquisitions.
They included in their the uncertainties inherent in market based performance obligations.
valuations fair values for intangible assets such as technology and A Monte-Carlo valuation model designed by New Bridge Street is now IPR&D for Prosonix and customer relationships and technology for being used to calculate the charge relating to the awards subject to Aerocrine.
The fair values at the time of the acquisition are set out in market conditions, and the Black Scholes model for awards that are note 32 to the accounts.
not subject to market conditions.
Note 13 sets out the assumptions used in the fair valuation of the In the current year, 3.0 million 2014: 2.4 million share options were intangibles at the year end.
granted to employees, resulting in a larger total charge to the income The fair values of these intangible assets in particular are subject to statement in the year of 2.7 million 2014: 1.7 million.
Recognition of deferred tax assets Accounting for acquisition costs IAS 12 Income taxes sets out four criteria for consideration in assessing In June 2015, the Group completed an offer and placement of new the probability that taxable profit will be available against which the shares for the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix.
The total cost unused tax losses can be utilised.
These are: of external advisers in relation to the share offer and the acquisitions a. whether the entity has sufficient taxable temporary differences was 12.8 million.
Of this 4.0 million was recognised in the income relating to the same taxation authority and the same taxable entity, statement and 8.8 million against the share premium account.
which will result in taxable amounts against which the unused tax Under IFRS, incremental costs that are directly attributable to an equity losses or unused tax credits can be utilised before they expire transaction that would have been avoided had the equity instruments b. whether it is probable that the entity will have taxable profits before not been issued are accounted for through the share premium the unused tax losses or unused tax credits expire account.
Any acquisition related costs for example due diligence must c. whether the unused tax losses result from identifiable causes which be expensed in the income statement.
are unlikely to recur d. whether tax planning opportunities see paragraph 30 are available As a result of these transactions, there is a risk that costs recognised in to the entity that will create taxable profit in the period in which the the income statement may be mis-stated.
unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised.
Allocation of goodwill to cash generating units and testing for In the past, deferred tax assets ohave not been recognised on the impairment pre-existing Circassia business because none of the above conditions In line with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the carrying value of goodwill applied.
In the context of IAS 12, the existence of a history of losses was allocated to cash generating units CGU and the carrying value of provides evidence that future taxable profits are not probable and each CGU including the allocated goodwill tested for impairment.
strong evidence of future profitability would be required to overcome Cash generating units are the smallest group of assets that the presumption that the related deferred tax assets should not be independently generate cash flow and whose cash flow is largely recognised.
Thus for Circassia Ltd, which has brought forward tax independent of the cash flows generated by other assets.
These losses of 79.4 million no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
have been defined as the pre-existing Circassia business i. e. allergy In the case of acquired businesses, however, there are other business prior to the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix: Aerocrine considerations.
On a standalone basis neither Aerocrine AB or Prosonix NIOX business and Prosonix Respiratory business.
Ltd would recognise a deferred tax asset for the same reasons as Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Aerocrine was allocated to both the pre-existing Circassia business.
However, as a consequence of the pre-existing Circassia cash generating unit and the Aerocrine cash acquisition accounting, fair values are recognised on intangible assets generating unit.
This is because both cash generating units benefit against which deferred tax liabilities need to be established.
Deferred tax from the same sales force selling to largely the same customers.
The liabilities arise as a consequence of taxable temporary timing differences assumptions used in allocation of the goodwill are set out in note 12 to on the fair value adjustments.
The fair value adjustments in the purchase the accounts.
This estimate is subject to a high degree of judgement.
price allocation exercise carried out by valuation specialists in effect represent future profit making capacity.
Therefore, if these profits are Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Prosonix was allocated entirely to likely to arise in the same jurisdictions and entities as the losses, there is Prosonix.
Goodwill allocated to each cash generating unit is disclosed a basis for recognising a deferred tax asset up to at most the value of the in note 12 of the financial statements.
Calculation of the deferred tax liability is based on Note 12 sets out the assumptions used to calculate the value in use fair values which themselves are subject to a high degree of judgement.
As the value in use was significantly greater than the Note 32 sets out the fair value adjustments for Aerocrine.
carrying value of each CGU, it was concluded that no impairment of the related goodwill was required.
The calculations include estimates Risk management and internal control which are subject to a high degree of judgement.
The Board has overall responsibility for the review of the Groups risk management framework and the level of risk which is acceptable in Measuring the fair value of awards under new share option order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Committee, on behalf of schemes and the related accounting treatment the Board, undertakes the detailed monitoring of the risk management The Group historically maintained an EMI approved share option framework and system of internal controls and reports to the Board on scheme.
Last year the Remuneration Committee approved the creation their suitability and efficacy annually.
of a new Performance Service Plan PSP scheme.
In order to discharge its duties in this respect, the Committee receives and reviews reports from the Groups management team.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 47 Corporate governance continued The Committee continues to assess what is an acceptable level of risk PwC undertook non-audit services for the Group in the course of the in key areas, and the best strategy for mitigating those risks given the year to 31 December 2015 which are summarised in the table below.
cost and time constraints which exist.
These services were provided in compliance with the policy outlined above and no conflicts of interest were considered to have arisen.
During the year, as is required by the 2014 edition of the Code, the Committee performed a detailed assessment of the principal risks faced Committee approval Fees by the Group and how these are managed and mitigated.
Nature of work 000 review of the effectiveness of the Groups monitoring and review systems No Acquisition fees 214 was carried out at the December Committee meeting.
No Taxation 10 Whistleblowing A confidential whistleblowing procedure exists to enable employees to The total fees paid to the Auditor are shown in note 7 of the financial raise concerns regarding possible improprieties in relation to financial statements.
Services were provided during the year in connection or other matters.
This procedure has been communicated to all staff.
with the Placing and Open Offer and the acquisition of Aerocrine Reports can be made through an online tool or a telephone helpline and Prosonix.
The Committee believes that the use of PwC for operated by a third party provider.
The Committee has reviewed these this transaction was appropriate in the circumstances and that arrangements and is satisfied that the current procedure allows for independence was preserved as the nature of the nonaudit services proportionate and independent investigation of such disclosures, and was such that the external Auditor was best placed to perform this for appropriate follow up actions to be taken.
In accordance with the work due to their skills and experience, and the fees paid were current policy, concerned employees may raise matters directly with insignificant in the context of the overall revenues earned by PwC.
the Vice President, Global Compliance Officer.
In summary, the Committee confirms that the Group has received an Anti-corruption and anti-bribery independent audit service in the year to 31 December 2015 and up to The Group has an anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy which has 11 March 2016. been communicated to all staff.
This policy ensures full compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, the US Foreign Corruption Practices Act and Audit partner rotation other major anti-corruption legislation.
The policy extends to carrying PwC adheres to a rotation policy which complies with the ethical out due diligence on new key business partners who are judged to be standards of the Audit Practices Board the APB and the audit acting on behalf of the Group in high risk areas.
partner is rotated every five years.
Simon Ormiston, the current audit partner was appointed for the year ended 31 December 2014 Internal audit and is not due for rotation until completion of the year ended This year the Committee considered whether there is a need for an 31 December 2018. internal audit function and concluded that, given the scale of operations at this time, it is not currently necessary.
The Board accepted this Tendering recommendation.
This decision will be kept under review.
PwC has been the Companys Auditor since the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Committee is actively monitoring the External audit EU audit directive and ongoing discussions in this area at the Financial The Groups external Auditor,  LLP PwC, is Reporting Council, the EU and the Competition Commission.
In view of engaged to express its opinion on the Groups financial statements.
the changes to the regulatory requirements relating to mandatory audit Effectiveness tendering, the Committee expects to conduct an audit tender at the The effectiveness of the external audit process is reviewed annually latest prior to contracting the 2017 year-end audit.
This review encompasses an examination of the The Company has complied during the financial year under review and independence, qualifications, capabilities, and remuneration of the up to the date of this report with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Auditor.
If issues are identified which may affect the effectiveness of the Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of process then actions will be agreed.
No such issues were identified in Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities the year to 31 December 2015 or up to the date of this report.
At the end of the audit for the year ended 31 December 2015 the Reappointment Committee formally evaluated the performance of PwC.
To conduct Each year the Committee considers the reappointment of the external this evaluation the Committee completed a questionnaire to assess Auditor and makes a recommendation to the Board.
In doing so robustness of the audit process, quality of its delivery, quality of the Committee considers the effectiveness and independence of reporting, and quality of the individuals and service.
Moreover, the the external Auditor.
The judgement of the Committee is that PwC Committee takes into account the quality of its interactions with the continues to deliver an effective and independent service.
Auditor in forming a view on their effectiveness.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that Independence  LLP be reappointed as the Companys The Committee is responsible for reviewing the independence and Auditor for a further year.
This recommendation has been accepted objectivity of the external Auditor.
Each year the external Auditor by the Board.
confirms its policies for ensuring its independence and provides the Committee with written confirmation that they continue to be The Committee will continue to monitor the changes proposed by the independent.
UK Competition Commission and European Commission in respect of Auditor services and re-tendering.
The Committee pays careful regard to whether non-audit work is carried out by the Auditor so as to ensure that the provision of such Committee evaluation additional services does not impair its independence or objectivity.
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out in December 2015 as part of the process of evaluating Board A formal process exists for approving the use of the Auditor for noneffectiveness.
There is no automatic restriction on the Auditor providing such services, but the Auditor should not be appointed to provide nonLota S Zoth audit services which might put the Auditor in the position of auditing Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee its own work or create a mutual interest between the Group and the 11 March 2016 Auditor or result in the Auditor acting as an advocate, manager, or employee of the Group.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 48 Nomination Committee report The Committee is empowered to obtain external professional advice to assist in the performance of its duties.
During the year the Committee Dear Shareholder has retained the services of executive search firm Spencer Stuart as On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Circassias Nomination explained below.
Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The key objective of the Committee is to ensure the Board is made up of a Activities range of individuals who together have the appropriate mixture of skills The principal activities during the year were: and experience to lead the Group.
Review of the structure, size and composition of the Board During the year the Committee considered and made including skills, experience, independence, knowledge and recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of Ms diversity : Lota S Zoth and Mr Marvin S Samson as Independent Non-Executive Appointments of Board members and Committee members: and Directors.
The Committee also considered and recommended the Annual performance evaluation of the Board, its members and its appointment of Lota Zoth as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee in Committees.
the place of Cathrin Petty, and to the Remuneration Committee in place of Mr Paul Edick.
The executive search firm Spencer Stuart was retained in 2014 to assist in the identification of new independent Non-Executive Directors.
There follows a summary of the activities of the Committee.
This process culminated in the appointment of Ms Lota S Zoth on Dr Francesco Granata 9 February 2015.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Mr Marvin S Samson was appointed on 8 December 2015.
11 March 2016 Appointment procedure Responsibilities There is a formal and transparent procedure by which new Directors The Committee must review the size, structure, and composition of the are appointed to the Board.
Suitable candidates are proposed either by Board and the Committees evaluating the balance of skills, experience, existing Board members or by an external search firm.
The Committee independence, and diversity of the Board as a whole.
On the basis of will then assess whether the candidate has the requisite skills and this evaluation it will then make recommendations to the Board on any experience for the role, sufficient time to perform it, and that their appointments.
As part of this process, the Committee will prepare a appointment will preserve or improve the balance of skills, experience description of the skills, experience and other characteristics required, and knowledge of the Board.
and identify through a transparent procedure, individuals who are The Committee worked closely with Spencer Stuart, a well-reputed capable of filling those roles.
executive search firm, at the beginning of the year in order to finalise the The Committee also plans for the orderly succession of Directors recruitment of Ms Lota S Zoth.
In this instance, a list of candidates was to the Board and recommends to the Board the membership and prepared by the search firm and reviewed by the Committee.
From this chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
long list the Committee produced a short list of candidates for interview.
At the conclusion of this process the Committee recommended to the The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Board that Lota Zoth be appointed.
Mr Samson was shortlisted following proposals by existing Board Membership and meetings members and following interviews was recommended by the Throughout the year the Committee comprised Dr Tim Corn, Nomination Committee for appointment to the Board.
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud, and Dr Francesco Granata, the Chairman.
Ms Zoth and Mr Samson have been appointed under service All members of the Nomination Committee excluding the Chairman contracts which provide for a notice period of three months.
who was considered independent on appointment were considered by the Board to be independent throughout this period.
The Diversity Committee therefore complied with the requirements of the Code The Company has an Equal Treatment, Equal Opportunities and that a majority of its members are independent.
Diversity policy which extends to the Board.
The appointment The Committee met three times during the year ended 31 December procedures described above were carried out in full compliance 2015 and all members were present at each meeting.
A summary of the with this policy.
composition and attendance of the Committee is as follows: Succession Planning Meetings The Board is satisfied that appropriate planning has taken place Member Date of appointment attended held for the orderly succession of Directors and senior management.
Dr Francesco Granata 21 February 2014 2 2 Chairmans commitments Dr Tim Corn 21 February 2014 2 2 In accordance with provision B.
3.1 of the Code, it is confirmed that Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud 21 February 2014 1 2 the Chairmans other significant commitments are as disclosed in the biography which appears in the Corporate governance report.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings by invitation.
Committee evaluation A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out in December 2015 as part of the process of evaluating Board effectiveness.
Dr Francesco Granata Chairman of the Nomination Committee 11 March 2016 Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 49
