STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Accountability The application of the key components of the Risk Accountability, Audit and Financial Management Framework have been: The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and ensuring that the financial statements present a Oversight structure and accountability the implementation fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups of a risk management oversight and accountability structure financial position and prospects.
The detailed work to ensure has ensured that risk consideration has been undertaken from this, and to substantiate the fair, balanced and understandable both a top-down and bottom-up perspective.
As a result, statement, is undertaken by the Audit Committee.
the Group has established a Group Strategic Risk Register as well as operational risk registers for Group support functions Risk Management and Internal Control and cinema operations.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing, monitoring and maintaining an effective system of risk On-going process the updated risk management process has management and internal control.
These systems provide been consistently applied at both a strategic and operational reasonable assurance that the Groups assets are safeguarded level.
The approach has been focused on risk identification and that material financial errors and irregularities are using cause and effect analysis, inherent and residual risk prevented or detected with a minimum of delay.
assessment, key controls identification, and the development and implementation of further mitigation strategies where The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Code: required.
As part of this process, risk appetite is considered for there is an on-going and robust process for identifying, each of the principal risks, allowing the Board to clearly set out evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the the nature and extent of the risk the Group is willing to accept Group for more details please see Principal Risks and in pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
Uncertainties on pages 22 to 28 : the systems have been in place for the year under review: Escalation, monitoring and reporting a clear escalation the systems are regularly reviewed by the Executive criteria is in place to ensure changes to risk exposure are Directors and Board and are deemed to be effective with notified up through the governance structure as required.
no significant weaknesses identified: and Riskleads are identified for all risks and have the responsibility the systems comply with the FRC guidance on risk for ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of current controls management, internal control and related financial and the progress against the implementation of further businessreporting.
During 2015 the Board has directly, and through delegated authority There is a cycle of on-going monitoring and reporting activities to the executive management team and the Audit Committee, inplace with risk information being presented to the Board, overseen and reviewed the performance and evolution of the AuditCommittee, and the executive management team.
approach to risk management and internal control.
Culture to support embedding the application of the Risk Risk Management Management Framework into the culture and behaviours of The Board, supported by the Audit Committee and the the Group, on-going training and communication has been executive management team, has overall responsibility for delivered to develop its risk registers.
Details of the Groups implementing an effective risk management approach.
In principal risks and how they are being managed or mitigated January 2015 the Audit Committee approved an updated Risk are provided on pages 22 to 28.
The framework sets out the policy, oversight structure, accountability, monitoring and reporting Internal Control of risk within the Group, and facilitates the following objectives Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups for risk management: system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, identify, measure, control and report on business risk that it has delegated responsibility for the operation of the system will undermine the achievement of the Group strategic of internal control to the executive management team.
The objectives, both strategically and operationally, through detailed review of internal control has been delegated to the appropriate analysis and assessment criteria: Audit Committee.
Senior management within each part of the better allocate effort and resources for the management Group is responsible for internal control and risk management ofkey and emerging risks: within its own area and for ensuring compliance with the drive business improvements and improved intelligence Groups policies and procedures.
forkey decision making: and support and develop the Companys reputation as a well Internal Audit the Audit Committee maintains an internal governed and trusted organisation.
audit process, carried out by PwC and the in-house Internal Audit team, to review the systems and control procedures throughout the Group.
The Internal Audit Plan is a combination of Group wide risk based reviews providing assurance over the key controls relied upon for the principal risks as well as specific reviews requested by management.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 47 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued During the year, there was an update of the cinema Across all territories, a minimum financial controls checklist compliance audit programme and the introduction of a selfis in place for all Finance Directors.
On an annual basis they assessment approach for cinema managers.
Each cinema in are required to undertake a self-assessment sign-off of these the Group is risk assessed based on financial, operational and controls which is then followed up by Internal Audit reviews management information to determine which cinemas would forcompliance validation.
be included in the audit programme for the year.
Other Assurance Activities Health and Safety audits continue Business Continuity Plans for Head Office are in place with to take place throughout the year across the Group and components of the plan being reviewed and tested on a customer surveys take place to ensure that customers are regular basis.
A whistleblowing policy is in place to protect receiving the best viewer experience.
members of staff who raise concerns about impropriety, financial or otherwise.
The Board is satisfied that for the financial period in question these measures were in place throughout the Group and it The lead partner of the PwC internal audit team reports complied with the requirements of the Code in this regard.
directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee and presents the findings of his team at Audit Committee meetings.
Progress reports on follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly to the Audit Committee more details of the Audit Committees 2015 activities are set on page 50.
The External Auditor provides a supplementary, independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system, which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are reported to both the Audit Committee andthe Board.
Operational controls the Executive Directors on a day-today basis have involvement in reviewing the key operations of the business through their interaction with their senior management across the Group and their discussions on operational performance and delivery.
Financial Control the Group has in place internal control andrisk management arrangements in relation to the Groups financial reporting processes and the preparation of its consolidated accounts.
The arrangements include procedures to ensure the maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect transactions to enable the preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU or FRS 101, asappropriate, with reasonable assurance and that require reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
On-going financial performance is monitored through regular reporting to Executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board.
Capital investment and all revenue expenditure isregulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, with post-investment and period end reviews as required.
Acomprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended bythe Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board forapproval.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 48
