Governance Governance C Corporate governance statement orporate governance statement Principles statement Powers of the board Director induction, training and support The audit committee is responsible for the independent review and The board meets regularly with at least four scheduled meetings each A careful assessment is made of the time commitment required from challenge of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management Good corporate governance underpins the companys objectives, strategy year plus additional meetings to address matters that arise other than the chairman and the non-executive directors to discharge their roles approach and for reporting its findings to the board.
and business model, as set out in the strategic report on pages 2 to 37. in the normal course of business.
The non-executive directors serve properly and, on appointment, new directors are provided with a tailored The board is committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate Risk management and internal control on a number of committees established by the board.
More information induction programme relating to the companys business.
All directors governance, which is critical to retaining investor trust in the company Managing risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of the regarding board and committee meetings can be found on page 42. are encouraged to regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge and in the board as custodian of the companys assets and values.
companys business activities, which is undertaken using a practical by attending seminars and training sessions.
During the annual board The board has the powers and duties as set out in all relevant laws and flexible framework, providing a consistent and sustained approach Statement of compliance evaluation process the directors have the opportunity to highlight any and the companys articles of association Articles.
Amendments to to risk evaluation.
areas in which they feel professional development would be beneficial, The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages 38 the companys Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions The board has established policies and risk management procedures either individually or as a unit.
The board has access to the company to 67 and information incorporated by reference, constitutes the Clarkson of the Companies Act 2006.
The board has adopted a formal schedule together with key controls, which are reviewed in accordance with secretary who provides advice on corporate governance matters.
PLC corporate governance report setting out how the company has of matters it reserves for its own decision making, such as decisions applicable regulations and best practice guidelines, to ensure that they applied the principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code relating to: The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that the board continue to be effective and protect the companys stakeholders.
the Code, which is applicable to the company for the financial year ended has access to the information it requires and that such information strategy and management 31 December 2015.
We are compliant with the Code with the exception The companys internal control system encompasses controls over areas is supplied in a timely manner and is of appropriate quality to enable financial reporting and controls of the requirement to have an externally facilitated board evaluation every including financial reporting, operations, compliance and risk management directors to discharge their duties effectively.
In addition, directors may three years.
For further explanation please refer to page 41. procedures.
Such a system is designed to evaluate and manage rather shareholder communications take independent professional advice at the companys expense if than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute necessary, in the course of discharging their duties.
Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting executive remuneration assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The senior independent director provides a sounding board for the the groups corporate and capital structure There is a comprehensive budgetary process in place with both annual chairman and serves as an intermediary for other directors when required.
material contracts Leadership and regular forecasts being considered and approved by the board and The company purchased and maintained directors and officers liability board and other senior management appointments and membership The board of directors comprises James Hughes-Hallett, Andi Case, monthly monitoring of trading results taking place in order to mitigate risks insurance throughout 2015 and this cover has been renewed for 2016. of board committees Peter M. Anker, Jeff Woyda, Peter Backhouse, Birger Nergaard, James associated with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated Morley and Ed Warner.
Biographies of the directors in office at the date Performance evaluation financial statements.
An established compliance, legal and governance corporate governance procedures and other group policies of signing the financial statements are set out on pages 38 to 39.
At the end of 2015, the board conducted an internal evaluation of process is in place to monitor regulatory developments and to ensure Procedure to deal with directors conflicts of interest its own performance, its committees and that of individual directors.
that all existing and forthcoming regulations are complied with.
The board, supported by its committees, is responsible for ensuring A director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has a direct The chairmans performance was evaluated by each of the other nonleadership and setting strategic direction with the aim of delivering The company issues a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, to which or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the executive directors.
A questionnaire was circulated to all directors seeking sustainable shareholder value.
It is imperative that the combined all staff are expected to adhere, in order to maintain Clarksons status as company.
The board may authorise any potential conflicts, where their evaluation of a number of matters, including board culture, balance, experience and knowledge represented by the board of directors is a responsible and trustworthy business.
appropriate, in accordance with the companys Articles.
The company meetings and processes.
The principal conclusions were then presented appropriate to lead the company in maintaining its market leading has established comprehensive procedures for the disclosure of any such All employees are responsible for ensuring compliance with group policies to the board and key points and actions discussed.
The board, having position and achieving its strategic objectives.
Following completion of conflicts by directors, and for the consideration and authorisation of these and for identifying risks within their business areas and to ensure that these carefully considered all matters arising out of the performance review, the acquisition of RS Platou ASA on 2 February 2015 Platou acquisition, by the board.
The board considers each conflict on its particular facts and risks are controlled and monitored in the appropriate way.
concluded that the board operates effectively and in an open manner.
Peter M. Anker, the chief executive of Platou, and Birger Nergaard, in the context of the other duties owed by the director to the company.
Following the Platou acquisition, the board considered it appropriate to The board has established arrangements by which employees of the the deputy chairman of Platou, joined the board of Clarkson PLC as The board regularly reviews and monitors potential conflicts of interest.
defer an external performance evaluation until the integration period had company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties executive director and non-executive director respectively.
Ed Warner, a non-executive director, is also non-executive chairman of concluded.
It is intended for the external performance evaluation to take or wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The audit committee On appointment, the chairman and the non-executive directors met the Panmure Gordon, the companys joint stockbroker.
Jeff Woyda, chief place during 2016. regularly reviews this arrangement.
independence criteria set out under the Code and confirmed that they financial officer and chief operating officer, is a non-executive director of Appointment of directors have sufficient time available to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The board, with advice from the audit committee, has carried out an the International Transport Intermediaries Club ITIC.
Following amendment at the 2015 AGM, the Articles now provide that They are appointed for an initial three year term, subject to re-election by annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and all directors shall retire from office and subject to satisfactory performance Where a potential or possible conflict of interest arises, both directors shareholders at each annual general meeting AGM, after which their risk management and confirms that the ongoing process for identifying, are put forward for re-election at each AGM.
Shareholders are provided declare their interest and remove themselves from the decision making appointment may be extended, subject to mutual agreement.
All members evaluating and managing the groups principal risks has operated with comprehensive information about the directors who are subject to process in respect of the relevant business.
of the board will retire and seek re-election by shareholders at this years throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of this annual election and re-election, including their commitment to the role, in the AGM in accordance with the Code.
The continuing independence of each report.
Please refer to pages 32 to 33 of the annual report for more details Effectiveness notice of AGM.
non-executive director is assessed regularly.
on the principal risks facing the business and the mitigation in place.
Succession planning Ed Warner and James Morley will be approaching nine years on the Board engagement with investors and The roles of chairman and chief executive are not exercised by the same There are currently eight directors on the board of Clarkson PLC.
The board believes that both directors continue to be relations with shareholders individual.
There is a clear division of responsibilities: The structure of the board is regularly reviewed as we seek to appoint fully independent in character and judgement.
The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly the best candidate for each vacancy.
Chairman Chief executive with the board and encourages their participation.
The companys Accountability Leading the board Running day-to-day business The board oversees the groups senior management succession plan, AGM will be held on 6 May 2016.
Further details of the business to be The board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Ensuring board effectiveness Implementing board strategy including the procedure for the appointment of new directors to the addressed at the meeting can be found in the notice of meeting.
company for the benefit of shareholders, assessing the companys board to ensure that there are appropriate skills and experience within Promoting high standards of The executive directors meet regularly with the companys major position and prospects, and for ensuring that the information presented the company and on the board.
corporate governance shareholders and make presentations to analysts, institutional investors to shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable.
Further details of The process for board appointments is led by the nomination committee and investment managers following the announcement of the interim The non-executive directors have a vital role in ensuring that the strategies directors responsibilities for preparing the companys financial statements which, in accordance with its terms of reference, evaluates the balance of and full year results.
The non-executive directors are fully briefed on the proposed by the executive directors are appropriately discussed and are set out in the directors responsibilities statement on page 61. skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the board and makes opinions of investors after such meetings.
They help scrutinise the performance of The board is responsible for: recommendations for appointments to the board.
management against the agreed goals and strategic objectives of the The senior independent director is available to meet with shareholders board and monitor the integrity of the companys financial information and determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in Non-executive directors are appointed for a specific term.
Details of their and institutional investors as required.
systems of risk control and management.
In addition, they are responsible achieving its strategic objectives: service contracts can be found on page 49.
A report on the work carried The primary means of communication with our shareholders are via the for considering and approving executive remuneration.
The chairman out by the nomination committee during the year is set out below.
maintaining the companys system of internal controls and risk companys annual and interim reports and website on which the company maintains direct communication with each of the non-executive directors management: and publishes its trading updates and other news released to the London without the executive directors present where necessary.
reviewing the effectiveness of these systems annually.
For shareholder information see page 60 or visit www.
40 40 Clarkson PLC Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Annual Report 2015 www.
com 41 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Director induction, training and support The audit committee is responsible for the independent review and A careful assessment is made of the time commitment required from challenge of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management the chairman and the non-executive directors to discharge their roles approach and for reporting its findings to the board.
properly and, on appointment, new directors are provided with a tailored Risk management and internal control induction programme relating to the companys business.
All directors Managing risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of the are encouraged to regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge companys business activities, which is undertaken using a practical by attending seminars and training sessions.
During the annual board and flexible framework, providing a consistent and sustained approach evaluation process the directors have the opportunity to highlight any to risk evaluation.
areas in which they feel professional development would be beneficial, The board has established policies and risk management procedures either individually or as a unit.
The board has access to the company together with key controls, which are reviewed in accordance with secretary who provides advice on corporate governance matters.
applicable regulations and best practice guidelines, to ensure that they The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that the board continue to be effective and protect the companys stakeholders.
has access to the information it requires and that such information The companys internal control system encompasses controls over areas is supplied in a timely manner and is of appropriate quality to enable including financial reporting, operations, compliance and risk management directors to discharge their duties effectively.
In addition, directors may procedures.
Such a system is designed to evaluate and manage rather take independent professional advice at the companys expense if than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute necessary, in the course of discharging their duties.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The senior independent director provides a sounding board for the There is a comprehensive budgetary process in place with both annual chairman and serves as an intermediary for other directors when required.
and regular forecasts being considered and approved by the board and The company purchased and maintained directors and officers liability monthly monitoring of trading results taking place in order to mitigate risks insurance throughout 2015 and this cover has been renewed for 2016. associated with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated Performance evaluation financial statements.
An established compliance, legal and governance At the end of 2015, the board conducted an internal evaluation of process is in place to monitor regulatory developments and to ensure its own performance, its committees and that of individual directors.
The chairmans performance was evaluated by each of the other nonThe company issues a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, to which executive directors.
A questionnaire was circulated to all directors seeking all staff are expected to adhere, in order to maintain Clarksons status as their evaluation of a number of matters, including board culture, balance, a responsible and trustworthy business.
The principal conclusions were then presented All employees are responsible for ensuring compliance with group policies to the board and key points and actions discussed.
The board, having and for identifying risks within their business areas and to ensure that these carefully considered all matters arising out of the performance review, risks are controlled and monitored in the appropriate way.
Following the Platou acquisition, the board considered it appropriate to The board has established arrangements by which employees of the defer an external performance evaluation until the integration period had company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties concluded.
The audit committee place during 2016. regularly reviews this arrangement.
Appointment of directors The board, with advice from the audit committee, has carried out an Following amendment at the 2015 AGM, the Articles now provide that annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and all directors shall retire from office and subject to satisfactory performance risk management and confirms that the ongoing process for identifying, are put forward for re-election at each AGM.
Shareholders are provided evaluating and managing the groups principal risks has operated with comprehensive information about the directors who are subject to throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of this annual election and re-election, including their commitment to the role, in the report.
Please refer to pages 32 to 33 of the annual report for more details notice of AGM.
Ed Warner and James Morley will be approaching nine years on the Board engagement with investors and board in 2017.
The board believes that both directors continue to be relations with shareholders fully independent in character and judgement.
The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the board and encourages their participation.
The companys Accountability AGM will be held on 6 May 2016.
Further details of the business to be The board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the addressed at the meeting can be found in the notice of meeting.
company for the benefit of shareholders, assessing the companys The executive directors meet regularly with the companys major position and prospects, and for ensuring that the information presented shareholders and make presentations to analysts, institutional investors to shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable.
Further details of and investment managers following the announcement of the interim directors responsibilities for preparing the companys financial statements and full year results.
The non-executive directors are fully briefed on the are set out in the directors responsibilities statement on page 61. opinions of investors after such meetings.
The board is responsible for: The senior independent director is available to meet with shareholders determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in and institutional investors as required.
achieving its strategic objectives: The primary means of communication with our shareholders are via the maintaining the companys system of internal controls and risk companys annual and interim reports and website on which the company management: and publishes its trading updates and other news released to the London reviewing the effectiveness of these systems annually.
com 41 Gover Governanc finance e Corporate governance statement continued Clarkson PLC board James Hughes-Hallett Chair Peter Backhouse Senior independent director Directors biographies see pages 38 to 39 Audit committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee James Morley Chair James Hughes-Hallett Chair Ed Warner Chair Peter Backhouse Ed Warner Peter Backhouse Ed Warner Peter Backhouse James Morley James Morley James Hughes-Hallett Birger Nergaard The chairman of the board, the chief executive, chief financial officer Board committees and chief operating officer and other senior managers may be invited to The board is supported by the audit, nomination and remuneration attend meetings when appropriate and the external auditors are invited committees.
The responsibilities of each committee are set out in their to attend on a regular basis.
The committee meets privately on a regular respective terms of reference, which are approved by the board and basis with the external auditors in the absence of management.
Further published on the companys website.
details on the work of the audit committee are shown in the audit The attendance of members of the board at board and committee committee report on pages 58 to 59.
The committees terms of reference meetings during the year was as follows: are available on the companys website.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Remuneration committee Board committee committee committee The members of the remuneration committee are Ed Warner, Peter Total number of Backhouse, James Morley, James Hughes-Hallett and, from 5 January meetings held 2016, Birger Nergaard.
The committee is chaired by Ed Warner and is in the year 8 3 3 1 responsible for determining with the board the policy on remuneration of 1 the chairman, chief executive, executive directors and certain other senior James Hughes-Hallett 8 3 2 1 staff.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is decided by the Peter Backhouse 8 3 2 1 chairman and executive directors.
Further details on the work of this Andi Case 8 1 3 1 committee are contained within the directors remuneration report on 2 pages 43 to 57.
The committees terms of reference are available on the Peter M. Anker 7 companys website.
2 Birger Nergaard 6 Nomination committee James Morley 8 3 3 1 The nomination committee comprises the chairman James HughesEd Warner 7 3 3 1 Hallett, Ed Warner, Peter Backhouse and James Morley.
The chairman Jeff Woyda 8 3 2 1 of the board does not chair the committee when it is dealing with the matter of succession to the chairmanship.
The committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the 1 Appointed as a chairman of the board on 1 January 2015. board including the skills, knowledge and experience, leads the process 2 Appointed to the board on 2 February 2015. for board and committee appointments, and makes recommendations to the board based on the balance of skills and experience of board Audit committee membership.
The committee gives full consideration to future succession The members of the audit committee are James Morley, Peter Backhouse planning for the board, in particular for the key roles of chairman and chief and Ed Warner.
James Morley chairs the committee and has been executive, and other senior executives.
determined by the board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee assists the board in monitoring the integrity of the groups Clarksons recognise and embrace the benefits of a diverse board.
financial statements, reviews the effectiveness of the groups systems As part of the annual performance evaluation, the nomination committee of internal control and risk management and monitors the objectivity, reviews the composition of the board, the committees and the individual effectiveness and performance of the external auditors.
The committee will consider suitable candidates for any board adequacy and security of the companys arrangements for employees appointments on the basis of a wide range of criteria including personal to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial merit, ability, knowledge, experience and independence.
This is to ensure reporting.
It reviews the companys systems and controls for the that we are appointing the best possible candidate for each vacancy and prevention of bribery and assesses a report from the Compliance and to ensure a well-balanced board.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys website.
42 42 Clarkson PLC Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Annual Report 2015
