Governance Governance A Audit committee report udit committee report The primary function of the audit committee is to assist the board in In addition to the above responsibilities, the committee has reviewed fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for: the processes for the prevention, detection and reporting of fraud and the groups Code of Business Conduct & Ethics.
scrutinising the robustness and integrity of the groups financial reporting, including accounting issues and judgements: The committees terms of reference are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Code and are also monitoring and reviewing the groups internal control and risk published on the companys website.
management systems, including internal financial reporting controls, and identifying any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in The committee met three times during 2015 and addressed three main their operation: and areas in the year 1 financial reporting and significant issues, 2 internal control, internal audit and risk management, and 3 external auditors.
monitoring and reviewing the activities and performance of the external auditors, and notifying the board of any significant concerns arising from their audit work.
1 Financial reporting and significant issues The audit committee reviewed and considered the following areas in respect of financial reporting and preparation of the interim and annual financial statements: the appropriateness of accounting policies used: compliance with internal and external financial reporting standards and policies: principal judgemental accounting matters, based on reports from management and external auditors: and whether or not the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The committee also reviews reports by the external auditors on the full year and half year results which highlight any issues with respect to the work undertaken on the audit.
The issues and how they were addressed by the committee are set out below: Issue Area of focus How the issue was addressed by the committee Recoverability of A number of judgements are made in the calculation of the The committee discussed with management the results of its trade receivables provision, primarily the age of the invoice, the existence of review, the internal controls and the composition of the related any disputes, recent historical payment patterns and the financial information.
The committee also discussed with the debtors financial position.
external auditors their review of the provision.
The committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the financial statements.
Revenue In the broking and financial segments, the groups The committee considered the revenue recognition processes entitlement to commission revenue usually depends on in place for all four business segments with management and recognition third party obligations being fulfilled.
Since the group has cut-off procedures with the external auditors.
no control over this, it is important to recognise revenue at The committee is satisfied with the control environment and that the appropriate time.
revenue has been recognised in the correct periods.
Classification Exceptional items are those which are non-recurring in The committee considered the reasons behind showing these and recognition nature and considered to be material in size.
In 2015, this items separately and therefore excluding the costs from the of adjusting items column in the consolidated income statement represents underlying earnings measures.
onerous property lease expenses, costs associated with The committee agreed that to include these items in underlying the restructuring and integration of the two businesses and earnings would be misleading to the users of the financial the release of a provision for dilapidations.
statements due to their nature and size.
The acquisition costs column includes the amortisation The committee is satisfied that the existing format is consistent of intangible assets, the expensing of the cash and share with the groups accounting policy.
based elements of consideration linking to ongoing employment obligations on acquisitions along with the fees payable on completion of the Platou acquisition.
Acquisition Accounting for the acquisition required a fair value exercise The committee reviewed the external report used by management.
accounting for to assess the assets and liabilities acquired, including It also compared the completeness of the intangible assets Platou valuing any separately identifiable intangible assets, both identified against the external auditors expectations.
of which can be subjective.
The committee is satisfied that management has identified the Management utilised an external expert to support them relevant intangible assets and has valued them appropriately.
with quantifying fair values of identified intangible assets Following the acquisition of Platou, the audit committee has in respect of Platous forward order book, customer reviewed and monitored business integration, IT integration and relationships and brand.
the implementation of a unified control environment.
The committee is satisfied that the integration has been successful and that reporting and control mechanisms are now integrated across both business lines and corporate entities.
58 58 Clarkson PLC Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 2 Internal control, internal audit During the year the auditors provided tax advisory and compliance services and other assurance services with fees of 0.1m and and risk management 0.1m respectively.
The audit committee undertakes an annual review of the groups internal controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk The committee meets privately on a regular basis with the external management and reviews the external auditors report in relation to auditors in the absence of management.
The committee has discussed the requirements of the Code and The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy and the final order published by the Competition and Markets Authority in effectiveness of the groups risk management systems and processes.
respect of tendering the groups external audit and has recommended Further details of risk management are shown on pages 32 to 33. to the board that it does not carry out a tender process for 2016: the next tender process is due in 2019.
In making this assessment, The company continually seeks to improve and update existing the committee has considered the performance of the current external procedures and to introduce new controls where necessary.
The risk auditors,  LLP PwC, who have served since management system is designed to identify principal risks and to provide 2009.
The committee does not consider that PwCs independence assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed.
As an or effectiveness is impaired.
Accordingly the audit committee has ongoing process, the audit committee oversees the development of the recommended to the board that PwC be reappointed as auditor internal control procedures which provide assurance to the committee and that a resolution be put to shareholders at the AGM.
that the controls which are operating in the group are effective and sufficient to counteract the risks to which the company is exposed.
No significant control deficiencies were identified during the year.
The need for an internal audit function is reviewed regularly by the James Morley Audit committee chairman board and the audit committee.
After taking into account the size and 4 March 2016 structure of the group, including the changes following the completion of the Platou acquisition, the audit committee concludes that it was appropriate in view of the scale and regulatory nature of its operations to Please see risk management on pages 32 to 33 for more information establish an internal audit function for the banking and finance operations headquartered in Norway, and has appointed Ernst & Young to perform this function on an outsourced basis.
The committee have concluded that there is no immediate requirement for an internal audit function in respect of the groups other activities, but will continue to keep this issue under consideration.
The audit committee, in conjunction with the board, has established arrangements by which employees of the group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or wrongdoing.
3 External auditors The committee reviews and makes recommendations to the board regarding the re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
The audit committee considered the following: quality and effectiveness of the audit for the prior year: external audit strategy for the current year: overall work plan: terms of engagement: external auditors overall performance and independence: effectiveness of the overall audit process: length of appointment as external auditors current length: seven years : and level of non-audit and audit fees.
To ensure that the auditors maintain their independence and objectivity, the audit committee has implemented a policy which is designed to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not have an impact on the external auditors independence and objectivity.
It restricts the engagement of the auditor in relation to non-audit services, whilst recognising that there are some types of work, such as accounting and tax advice, where a detailed understanding of the companys business is advantageous.
It also requires that individual engagements above a certain fee level may only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the committee or the committee chairman.
