CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code A.
Provision of information and support A1.
The Boards role The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all In 2015, the Board met nine times in order to review the Companys Board members receive accurate and timely information.
All the Directors have performance and strategy against set objectives and a further four times access to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where outsideof the normal sequence of meetings to deal with urgent Board theDirectors judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value, to B6.
Board and committee performance evaluation approve the Groups Strategic Plan, and to monitor management performance The Board and the committees undertook an external evaluation in 2015.
The Board also sets the Groups risk appetite, and monitors the of the process undertaken, and a table of actions instigated by this evaluation are Companys risk management processes.
The Board has adopted a clear schedule included on page 47.
The Senior Independent Director also held a meeting with of matters reserved for its specific approval, including a framework for those the Non-executives in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans decisions which can be delegated to committees or otherwise.
can be found in the Corporate Governance Report starting on page 44.
A clear division of responsibilities All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election, as appropriate, The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed at the AGM.
The division of responsibilities is documented and clearly understood.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness C. Accountability ofthe Board, and the CEO is responsible for leading the day-to-day management C1.
Financial and business reporting of the Company within the strategy set by the Board.
The Statement of the Directors Responsibility is set out on page 71, and the Independent Auditors Report is on pages 72 to 76.
Role of the Chairman model isexplained on pages 6 and 7.
The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, manages the meeting timetable and facilitates open and constructive dialogue during the meetings.
Risk management and internal control systems The Board sets the Companys risk appetite and conducts a robust assessment A4.
Role of the Non-executive Directors of the principal risks, along with an annual review of the effectiveness of the The Board has appointed a Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding Companys risk management, and internal control systems.
The activities of board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors boththe Audit and Risk Committee part of the Group Executive Committee, where necessary.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders, which assist the Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk management, should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of reporting and assurance, are set out on pages 32 to 37. communication has failed to resolve.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Chairman has held regular meetings with the Non-executives in the Details of the composition of the Audit Committee and how the Committee has absence of Executive Directors, providing an opportunity for any concerns discharged its responsibilities during the year is provided in the Audit Committee tobediscussed.
The Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee are reviewed annually and are available on the Company website.
The Boards composition D. Remuneration The Board currently consists of ten individuals: the Chairman, two Executive D1.
Levels and components of remuneration Directors and seven independent Non-executive Directors.
The composition The Board believes that the Groups remuneration policy is appropriately of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee to ensure designed to promote the long term success of the Company, while enabling that there is an appropriate mix of skills, and a range of diverse experience.
the Group to attract, retain and motivate the executive talent required for Board members biographies are provided on pages 42 and 43 and identify the delivery of its business strategy.
For further information, see the Directors theexperience each Director brings to the Board.
A table identifying the skills Remuneration Report, and summarised Remuneration Policy, on pages 58 to 66. and experience of the Board members may also be found on page 51.
The Board determines, through the Nomination Committee, the independence D2.
Development of remuneration policy and packages of itsmembers.
Conflicts of interest are also monitored and updated at least The membership of the Remuneration Committee is made up of annually and more frequently as and when required.
The Terms of Reference for the Remuneration Committee are reviewed annually and are available on the Company website.
Board appointments TheRemuneration Committee has delegated authority for setting the The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination remuneration of Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The fees payable to Committee.
The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference, as published theNon-executive Directors are determined by the Board, on recommendation on the Company website, document their responsibility regarding Board from the Executive Directors Committee.
The Committee consists of all the Non-executive Directors andthe Chairman.
Further details of succession planning, including the Boards E. Relations with shareholders policy on diversity, including gender, can be found on page 51.
Shareholder engagement and dialogue Effective communication and engagement with investors is of paramount B3.
Time commitments importance to the continued success of the Company.
The Company maintains The time commitments of Non-executive Directors are defined on appointment a relationship with shareholders through a series of road shows completed and regularly evaluated.
The Chairman gives consideration to new directorships through the year, which are usually attended by the CEO and the CFO.
The which may impact existing time commitments.
Chairman makes himself available to meet with shareholders at their request and in January 2016 also invited the largest of the Companys shareholders to B4.
Training and development meet with him independently.
Further details can be found in the Corporate On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme, which Governance Report on page 48. is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with senior executives.
Further training for Directors is offered when taking a new role on a committee E2.
Constructive use of general meetings and is otherwise available as required.
Further details can be found in the The Board values all general meetings as an important opportunity to engage Directors professional development section on page 51. with investors.
Attendees at general meetings have the opportunity to ask questions to the Board and to speak to individual Directors following the formalbusiness of the meeting.
com Cobham plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
