Audit Committee Report INCREASED ANALYSIS OF THE GROUPS RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS O ne of the key focus areas for 2015 was the tender of the Groups external audit.
Dear Shareholder Priorities for 2016 I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the Audit Committee.
Continued focus on the effectiveness of Groups risk management systems: Oversight of a revised risk-based internal audit programme: 2015 was a busy year for the Audit Committee: we conducted a comprehensive Ongoing review of the internal audit scope: external audit tender, resulting in a recommendation for the re-appointment Oversight of the progressive transition of non-audit services away from ofPwC as the Groups external auditors: we approved the appointment theexternal auditors: of a newHead of Internal Audit and Assurance IA&A, and assisted in his Continued oversight of the Groups internal controls, including assurance development of a risk-based internal audit programme for 2016: we increased overthe SSA control environment: our interaction with Sector Finance leads, through the addition of a regular Increased focus on the implementation of CBOS: meeting presentation slot: we contributed to the development of the viability Continued oversight over the Groups development programmes, LCM statement, and reviewed the corresponding sensitivity analysis: and we have andITsecurity procedures: and keptclose watch over the long term development programmes and on the Assist in the search and selection process for the new CFO.
further strengthening of LCM capabilities.
Responsibilities At the 2016 AGM, I and the fellow members of the Committee will be available The Committees Terms of Reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure to respond to any questions shareholders may wish to raise on this report or the and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of reference, which were Committees activities.
reviewed and updated in December 2015, in line with the latest regulatory developments, are available on Cobhams website or on application to the Highlights of 2015 Company Secretary.
Conducted a comprehensive external audit tender: Implemented a new policy on the provision of non-audit services for The Audit Committees main responsibilities are to: theexternal auditors: Monitor the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and any formal Approved the appointment of a new Head of IA&A: announcements relating to its financial performance, reviewing accounting Increased the Committees interaction with Sector Finance leads: policies used and judgements applied: Contributed to the development of the viability statement: Oversee the Groups risk management procedures, and internal Oversaw the progress of the governance, risk and assurance initiative: control systems: Increased analysis of IT controls including cyber security and disaster Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: recovery : and Make recommendations on the appointment, terms of engagement and Continued to oversee the development of stronger LCM capabilities.
remuneration of the external auditors: Review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity andthe effectiveness of the audit process: Develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: and Monitor and review the Groups policies and practices concerning business conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing arrangements.
com 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Composition Key issues and activities The Committee consists of independent Non-executive Directors only.
Feb Apr Jul Oct Nov Dec Thecurrent members, aside from me, are Jonathan Flint, Mike Hagee and Financial statements and reports MikeWareing.
Following the 2016 AGM, Mike Wareing will be leaving the Audit Full year results Committee in order to join the Remuneration Committee, due to Mark Ronalds Half year results departure from the Board.
Biographical details for all of the Committee members may be found on pages 42 and 43.
The members bring a wide range of financial, Fair, balanced and understandable assessment risk and business expertise to the Committees deliberations.
The particular skills and experience of each member may be found on page 51.
External audit Independence, objectivity and effectiveness I am a Chartered Accountant, and was Chief Financial Officer of John Wood of the external auditor Group plc until May 2015.
The Board therefore considers that I have recent Appointment recommendation to the Board andrelevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
Policy on the provision of non-audit services Approval of non-audit fees Meetings External audit scope and fees Six Audit Committee meetings were held during the year, attended as follows: External auditors full year report 1 Alan Semple Chair External auditors half year report Jonathan Flint Audit tender Internal audit Mike Hagee Effectiveness review of internal audit 2 Mike Wareing Internal audit report Unable to attend Attended Annual internal audit plan 1 Alan Semple was appointed to the Committee on 25 February 2015 and became the Governance, risk and assurance Chair of the Committee on 23 April 2015.
2 Risk management report Mike Wareing stepped down as Chair of the Committee on 23 April 2015.
Risk management framework During the year, the Committee invited the Chairman of the Board, CEO, Internal controls CFO, Group Director of Financial Control, Head of IA&A, the PwC lead audit IT controls, including cyber security partner, other representatives from PwC, and other senior management to LCM attendtheir meetings.
Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud Other At least twice a year, immediately following a Committee meeting, the Updates on accounting and corporate Committee meet separately with the PwC lead audit partner and the Head governance developments of IA&A, to give them the opportunity to discuss matters without executive Terms of Reference management being present.
Effectiveness of the Committee Effectiveness During the year, an externally facilitated performance review was undertaken Allocation of time % in relation to the Board and its committees, by Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP.
TheCommittee discussed the findings of the review in the February Financial statements and reports Internal audit 26% 12% 2016 meeting, and considered the findings alongside their priorities for 2016.
The Committee received positive feedback from Board members, and was Governance, risk and assurance considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2015.
com Cobham plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report continued Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements and also seeks support from the external auditors to assess them.
The Committee identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2015 financial statements, on account of the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
Area of focus Area of issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Revenue contract Revenue and profit recognitionon The Committee debated accounting policies, The Committee was satisfied that accounting contracts referto note 1 of the judgements on material contracts and external accounting and judgements were Group Financial Statements auditreviews.
A key focus for the Committee has been the revenue and profit recognition on the Groups air-to-air refuelling programmes, with regular updates being provided to the Committee by Sector management.
Revenue and profit cut-off The Committee reviewed the work undertaken The Committee was satisfied that errorimpacting the 2015 results, by the internal and external audit teams and by the work undertaken was sufficient identified within onebusiness unit management, to ensure that the issue was fully and that potential misstatements refer to thePrincipal Risks section investigated and appropriate adjustments made had been identified and corrected onpage 32 to the financial statements.
Goodwill Goodwill impairment assessment The Committee challenged internal papers The Committee was satisfied refer to note 10 coveringthe basis and quantum of valuation, thatthese werereasonable and including explanations for any significant appropriate, and that the changesfrom those used in previous years.
Acquired intangibles Recoverability of acquired The Committee reviewed a report from The Committee was satisfied intangibles refer to note 27 management, which explained the thatthese werereasonable methodologyused and the rationale for andappropriate, and that the theassumptions made.
Inventory Accounting for inventory provisions The Committee challenged internal papers The Committee considered that refer to note 13 coveringthe basis and quantum of valuation.
accounting and provisions were appropriate.
Tax Accounting for uncertain The Committee reviewed explanatory papers The Committee was satisfied that taxpositions refer to frommanagement, which included a review the judgements and estimates notes6and20 oftheappropriateness of the tax provisions.
The Group Tax Director also attended a Committee meeting to discuss how the Groupmanages its taxrisks.
Non-underlying costs Identification and measurement of The Committee reviewed a report from The Committee was satisfied that non-underlying costs management, which explained the accounting and judgements were refertonote2 methodology used and the rationale for the reasonable and appropriate.
Acquisitions disposals Acquisition and disposal accounting The Committee discussed accounting policies, The Committee considered that refer to notes27and 28 management reports, detailed contract accounting and provisions were appraisals, legal advice, and reviews by internal appropriate.
A key focus for the Committee has been the adjustments to the Aeroflex opening balance.
com 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Policy on the provision of non-audit services External audit In July 2015, the Committee approved a revised policy on the provision The Committee is responsible for overseeing relations with the external auditors of non-audit services for recommendation to the Board.
The policy was PwC, including the approving of fees, and makes recommendations to the amended in anticipation of the implementation of EU legislation.
The Board on their appointment and re-appointment.
The total fees paid to PwC in revised policy states, as a default position, that the external auditors will the year ended 31 December 2015 equal 3.6m, with non-audit fees of 1.4m notbe engaged to provide any element of non-audit services.
However, representing 38.9% of the total.
An analysis of the fees paid to the external theCommittee recognises that there may be some non-audit services auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work during the year can be found for which the Group might wish to use the external auditors.
In these innote 4 to the Group Financial Statements.
circumstances, the deciding factor is that there is a clear differentiation for the work concerned, between the audit firm and other potential providers Total fees paid to the external auditors 2015 of the work.
Furthermore, the work must be permitted under the relevant Audit fees 2.2m 61.1% Non-audit fees 1.4m 38.9% regulations and must not impinge on the independence of the audit firm.
Adecision to use the audit firm for non-audit work must also be approved in advance of the use of the services, by: the CFO for fees up to 50,000: theCFO in conjunction with the Chair of the Audit Committee for fees between 50,000 and 150,000: and the Audit Committee, as a whole, for fees over 150,000.
As a result of the new policy and the outcome of the external audit tender, the existing provision of non-audit services will progressively transition away from the external auditors, PwC, during 2016.
Total fees paid to the external auditors 2014 Audit fees 2.2m 40.7% Non-audit fees 3.2m 59.3% Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether, in our opinion, the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable, to enable shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
To assist our assessment, the Committee, supported by management, has adopted a detailed process for the preparation and adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts outlined below.
Planning Initial content Review and PwC is expected to report to the Committee any material departures from Group Oct Nov Dec production Jan signoff Feb accounting policies and procedures that they identify during the course of their audit work.
None were found or reported in 2015.
The Independent Auditors Consider prepare content Start completing and Confirmation Report to the members of the Company can be found on pages 72 and 119. not dependent on yearcollating performance fromcontributors end results, e. g. : business related content.
asto completeness External audit plan model and strategy.
PwCs presentation of their audit plan to the Committee, set out the scope and Design concept and key Appropriate review objectives of the audit, together with an overview of the planned approach, an messages considered.
of full content, assessment of the Groups risks and controls, and proposed areas of audit focus.
for consistency, In July and December 2015, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms, completeness areas of responsibility and scope of the December 2015 year-end audit.
External auditor independence and objectivity Identify material events Sign off by section The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and performance issues to be owners, with monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit, which are designed reported.
to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
These policies set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditors Consider new regulations Consider level of for non-audit work and regulate the appointment by the Group of former and consistency with key assurance obtained employeesof PwC.
over non-financial information in the In addition to the independence review as part of the external audit tender Annual Report and process, PwC has provided specific assurance and the Committee has Accounts.
considered the arrangements and safeguards that PwC has in place to maintain its independence and objectivity, including an internal process to pre-approve Audit Committee provision of non-audit services and the use of separate teams where non-audit toformally report services are being provided to the Group.
tothe Board on howithas satisfied The external auditors follow regulatory requirements to maintain the objectivity itself that the Annual of the audit process: these stipulate a five-year rotation policy in relation to the Report and Accounts senior engagement auditor.
Pauline Campbell replaced Stuart Watson as lead is fair, balanced and audit partner in 2014. understandable.
The Committee continues to be satisfied that PwC, the external auditors, remain Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2015 independent and objective.
AnnualReport and Accounts was representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
com Cobham plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report continued External audit tender process The Committee confirmed in the Groups 2014 Annual Report and The tender process involved setting up a data room to provide the financial Accountsthat it was intending to conduct an audit tender during 2015 with a and other data to the firms on which to base their written proposals, site view to appointing a new firm, or reappointing PwC, for the 2016 year end, in visits to a representative location within each of the Groups four sectors response to the adoption of the Audit Directive 2014 56 EU by the European and meetings with the Sector finance leads and the functional heads within Parliament on 3 April 2014, which introduced a requirement for public interest finance, treasury and tax, legal, internal audit, programme management and entities to retender their audits at least every ten years, and to change the business integration.
Feedback from all of these meetings was provided to auditor at least every 20 years, In April 2015, a request for proposal was issued the Committee.
The firms also had meetings with certain members of the to the four major auditing firms, including the incumbent PwC, to provide the Committee and the Executive Directors.
following external audit and audit-related services: The audit of Cobhams parent company financial statements: Following the above activity, the four firms delivered their comprehensive The audit of the Group financial statements and those of written proposals to the Committee, who undertook a detailed and formal certainsubsidiaries: review, and concluded that PwC and Ernst & Young potentially offered To report, in the Annual Report and Accounts, whether certain the bestfit with the Companys requirements for their external auditors.
remuneration and governance disclosures were in accordance Accordingly, both firms were invited to present to the Committee, to allow withapplicable legislation and rules regulations: and theCommittee to identify the preferred candidate.
To review the interim financial statements, and controls reporting invariouslocations.
Following the presentations, the Committee unanimously agreed to recommend that the Board propose to shareholders that PwC be re-appointed as the The four firms participating in the tender process were required to submit Groups auditors for the 2016 audit.
In reaching this decision, the Committee theirproposals against the following criteria: was mindful that they should set a higher hurdle forthe re-appointment of Organisation and capability, including the firms global coverage, the incumbent firm than for a new firm, and believethat this was achieved.
industryexperience and technical expertise, particularly of operating Factorswhich the Committee took into accountin reaching our decision inanSSA environment in the US, scope coverage and insight into future included that the Chair was new to the Cobham Board and to the position developments likely to affect the Groups business: ofAudit Committee Chair, that the lead audit partner was also relatively new Audit approach and delivery, including knowledge of the business, and supported by a strong team, including two new partners for the 2015 auditplanning process, quality of accounting judgements, liaison with year-end audit.
The Committee alsotook account of a number of business andreliance upon Internal Audit, reliance upon the Groups systems of issues where the retention of PwCsknowledge and experience would be accounting and internal controls, and transition experience: helpful, including the air-to-air refuelling programmes and the roll-out of the Audit quality, including quality assurance, audit effectiveness, audit Groups updated business operating system, CBOS.
reporting, independence, objectivity, process improvement and addedvalue: While the regulations surrounding auditor rotation would allow PwC to Resourcing and engagement team, including quality and experience of remainin post until the conclusion of the 2020 audit, the Committees current proposed audit team, skills and personal qualities of lead audit partners, intention is to re-tender in 2018, for the 2019 audit, to coincide with the next team structure and responsiveness: and rotation of the PwC lead audit partner, Pauline Campbell.
The Committee will Fees and terms.
not be inviting PwC to tender in 2018.
External auditor effectiveness and re-appointment bythe new Head of IA&A, which identified that the function was under The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance of the external resourced, the Committee provided support to the further development of auditors, including feedback from the finance teams at many of the operating the Internal Audit team, with an increase to the size of the team, including companies.
The 2015 review was conducted in February 2016 and overall, theaddition of a new IT Internal Audit Manager, to be recruited in early 2016. the feedback was positive.
Having undertaken its review, in the opinion of theCommittee, the relationship with the external auditors works well, and The findings of each Internal Audit review are summarised and the Committee theCommittee remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory findings and on the action plans in place to address them.
Particular areas of focus during 2015 included the FRC Audit Quality Review implementation of Internal Audit recommendations by the businesses and The FRC selected Cobhams 2014 audit files for review by their Audit Quality results of the Internal Audit reviews of the former Aeroflex sites.
The Committee Review AQR Team.
The review covered the Group audit including central also received regular updates against the 2015 Internal Audit Programme planning, and selected aspects of the work performed by PwC at a UK entity throughout the year.
The Committee discussed the findings of the review with PwC, who considered all of the matters raised in the AQR report in the planning and The Committee approved the Internal Audit Plan for 2016, including the execution of the 2015 year-end audit.
proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
The 2016 Plan was prepared considering a number of factors, including the principal risks of the Internal Audit and Assurance Group.
The key points of focus in the 2016 Plan are: In February 2015, the Committee conducted a review of the effectiveness of A refresh of Internal Financial Controls Assurance: theGroups Internal Audit and Assurance function, taking into account the Increased monitoring of controls and actions: views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, Stronger alignment with the GRA project: proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
To drive continued improvement in the Groups assurance mapping process across the three lines of assurance: The Committee approved the appointment of a new Head of IA&A, effective Increasing focus on working capital management, in particular inventory April 2015.
The Head of IA&A attended every scheduled Committee meeting.
management: With effect from November 2015 the direct reporting line of the Head of IA&A The development and implementation of an IT Assurance programme: and became the Committee Chair.
Following an Internal Audit Effectiveness Review The development and implementation of a revised audit approach to LCM.
com 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk management and internal controls Cobham Code of Business Conduct violations and fraud The Board has ultimate accountability for the execution of the Groups risk Details of the Cobham Code of Business Conduct and the mechanisms, management and internal control systems.
The Executive Risk Committee is includingthose maintained by independent third parties, by which suspected responsible for overseeing the execution of risk management throughout the violations of the Code are raised and independently investigated, are provided Group.
The Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring and reviewing in the CR&S section of this report, on pages 38 and 39.
The Committee regularly theeffectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems received reports providing details of these cases, their outcome, and the tothe Committee, who provide reports on a regular basis to the Board.
The Committees review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, and is designed to give assurance that the day to day risk management and internal control policies and procedures, which are embedded in the business, have operated effectively in the review period.
The principal elements, the three linesof assurance, are outlined on page 32.
Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control.
Sector Alan Semple Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, including the Audit Committee Chair maintenance of business unit and Sector risk registers, exist to identify and 2 March 2016 manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk assessments.
The Executive Risk Committee undertakes a top level review of significant risks and the CEO reports regularly to the Board on their mitigation.
In 2014, a significant project was commenced to further enhance the Groups governance, risk and assurance framework.
The Committee continued to provide oversight throughout 2015, and has been encouraged by progress to date.
The Committee will continue to monitor the initiative throughout 2016, where the focus will move to review the key governance policies and assurance given.
Further information on the Groups principal risks and the risk management process may be found on pages 32 to 37.
The Group operates under a system of internal controls which have been developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and opportunities to which it is exposed.
This includes: The preparation of the Strategic Plan: A comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Board: The monthly review and revision of financial forecasts for the year: The monitoring of financial performance: The monitoring of project and programme management, through LCM: and The appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
Delegations and other controls are contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance Manual.
Specifically with regard to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, the system includes a semi-annual representation letter from all business units.
Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial reporting is based upon reliable data and that the results are properly stated in accordance with Group policies.
The Committee believes that the current arrangements consisting of the halfyearly risk assessment process, a programme of internal financial and othercontrol reviews by the Internal Audit function, other experienced internal teams, external experts and business reviews carried out by the CEO and CFO anda process of self-assessment of internal financial controls by all business units, provides appropriate coverage of the Groups activities.
Where weaknesseshave been identified, plans for remedying them are developed andprogress monitored.
com Cobham plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
