Nomination Committee Report FOCUS ON STRENGTHENING THE GROUPS SUCCESSION PLAN The Board has remained relatively stable through the year, the focus has been on talent attraction, identification and development further down the management chain.
Dear Shareholder Priorities for 2016 The Committee has had a relatively quiet 2015.
Alan Semple joined the Board Oversight of the search for the new CFO: and Audit Committee at the beginning of 2015.
There have been no other new Continue to review succession plans for the Board members and key Board appointments as the Board is currently at full strength, and considered to rolesacross the business: and be operating effectively.
Continue to review Board composition to ensure competencies remain aligned with the Strategic Plan and that the Board continues to be As part of the implementation of the new organisational design, there has been appropriately balanced.
an increase in our focus on succession planning, which has been led by the Board.
A detailed review of potential successors for the CEO role and all of his direct line The Committees Terms of Reference, which were reviewed during the year, reports, together with their development needs, was performed in the year by areavailable on Cobhams website or on application to the Company Secretary.
The Committee retained the responsibility for succession planning for the Non-executives.
Membership and attendance Two Nomination Committee meetings were held during the year, attended After the year had ended, the Board announced that our current CFO, Simon asfollows: Nicholls, would be moving on to perform the role of CFO for Wolseley plc, John Devaney Chair a FTSE50 company.
We wish him well in his new role and thank him for hisleadership contribution over the past three years.
The process to recruit Jonathan Flint his successor has commenced and we will be considering both internal and Mike Hagee externalcandidates.
Birgit Nrgaard Role and focus Mark Ronald The Nomination Committees main duties are to: Review the structure, size and composition of the Board: and Alan Semple Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
Mike Wareing Highlights of 2015 Alison Wood Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board: Led by Mike Wareing, the Senior Independent Director, reviewed my Unable to attend Attended performance as Chairman of the Group, and any succession issues One of the meetings was to review the Chairmans performance and agree his re-appointment.
arisingfrom this being my last three year term: and Considered the succession plan and concluded that this should be an Other attendees area for focus for the Board during 2015 16.
com 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Skills and experience The table below identifies the skills and experience of the Board members.
Years with Independence Cobham Skills Experience UK Corporate Leadership Strategy Governance Corporate Engineering Defence Finance US Market UK Listings HR Risk John Devaney 6 Bob Murphy 3 Simon Nicholls 2 Jonathan Flint 2 Mike Hagee 7 Birgit Nrgaard 2 Mark Ronald 9 Alan Semple 1 Mike Wareing 5 Alison Wood 4 Directors professional development Succession planning for Board members On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme Succession planning takes place on a regular basis to ensure that the Group inthecourse of which they receive information about: ismanaged by executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge.
The operations and activities of the Group: The Board has a role to play in overseeing the development of management The role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision: resources in the Group.
Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality The Groups corporate governance practices and procedures: inmanagement, and robust processes are in place to help them in this task.
Their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed publiclimited company: and Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining a Specific duties as a member of one of the Board committees.
depth of knowledge and experience on the Board.
The Nomination Committee actively manages Non-executive Director succession having regard to anticipated This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with, and retirement dates for existing Directors and initiates focused searches for presentations by, members of the senior management team.
Alan Semple Non-executive Directors as positions are required.
followed this model in undertaking his induction at the end of 2014 and into2015.
John Devaney Mark Development for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly Ronald by means of internal briefing from senior management or advisers and Mike external courses.
In addition, Directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory Hagee Mike environment is updated through the provision of information by the Groups Wareing advisers and by means of regular updates from the Company Secretary and Alison Wood thelegal team.
Jonathan Flint Site visits are considered critical to ensure that the Directors remain close to Birgit thebusiness of the Group, refer to page 46 for details of site visits organised Nrgaard Alan during the year.
Semple 2007 2012 2015 2017 2022 2027 Diversity and inclusion 1st term 2nd term 3rd term The Committee is cognisant of the need for diversity when considering The current Board composition in relation to the Non-executive Directors in the composition of the Board.
In terms of length of service and current term is shown diagrammatically above.
recruiting for Board roles, targets have been set around ensuring a proportion of female applicants are included in the candidate pool for Non-executive Director positions.
including representation from the The representation of women on Board, with an aim of supporting the Board is currently 20%.
the diversity and inclusion initiative currently under way in the business.
John Devaney During the year, the Board have set up More details of work under way in Nomination Committee Chair a Culture and Talent Advisory Panel, this area can be found on page 39.
com Cobham plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
