Corporate Governance Report FOCUS ON EXECUTION AND PORTFOLIO REBALANCING We made good progress onour strategic objectives, in particular the key objective to integrate the former Aeroflex business into the Group, assisting theCompany to return to growth, despite current headwinds in certain commercial markets.
Dear Shareholder, Corporate Governance Index We have made great progress with the Aeroflex integration combining the 1.
Board of Directors 42 skillsets of the existing Cobham and Aeroflex employees in the newly enlarged Group and realised synergy benefits comfortably ahead of our original plan.
Corporate Governance Report 44 The combination broadens our commercial footprint, and is helping us to make considerable headway in rebalancing the portfolio between defence 3.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 49 andcommercial markets.
Nomination Committee Report 50 The Groups new organisational structure came to life on 1 January 2015, creating a more simplified and streamlined organisation.
Audit Committee Report 52  development and design maturity issues within our air-to-air refuelling business, which led to a 15m provision, announced 6.
We have recovered well from these issues anditis pleasing torecognise that these programmes are now in a much more stablestate, 7.
Other Statutory Information 67 in part due to the strengthening of our engineering and programme .
Statement of Directors Responsibility 71 We launched a new employee engagement initiative under the banner of GreatPlace to Work, which is aimed at building increased levels of trust withinthe workplace so that all of our employees can work together to achieve Cobhams full potential and truly become a great place to work.
We are pleased with progress so far.
The Board has remained fairly static during 2015.
Alan Semple joined us in February 2015 and is settling in to his new role as Chair of the Audit Committee, but other than that there have been no changes at Board level.
Mark Ronald steps down as a Non-executive Director after serving nine years, at the forthcoming AGM.
We thank Mark for his invaluable contribution to the Group over this period and wish him every success in the future.
Our markets in 2016 will, no doubt, continue to challenge and we will continue to work hard to respond to those challenges.
I trust we can rely on your continued support for the foreseeable future.
com 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors present their report and the audited Group and Parent Company Highlights of 2015 Financial Statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The integration of the Aeroflex businesses purchased in 2014 has advanced and synergies have been recognised earlier than originally planned: Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Code The organisational redesign for the business was formally launched on The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance 1 January 2015: with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that Oversight of the development programmes with increased LCM and throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and at the date of this Annual engineering capabilities to support: Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance A new Sector President for Communications and Connectivity has been Code Code, please refer to page 49 for further details.
In addition, other key appointments to the Group Executive in: IT: Engineering: and Operations Supply Chain Management.
All This part of the Annual Report describes how the Company has applied, of these changes have been madeto further enhance the strength of the and complied with, the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting senior management team.
Thesuccession plan for this team, including the Council FRC and is available from its website www.
Sector teams, was fully reviewed during the year: The strategy adopted during 2014 was further refined and the Groups Responsibility statements strategic objectives reviewed: Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on page 71, Continued oversight of the restructuring of the portfolio with planned andthose relating to the auditors are on pages 76 and 119. disposals of businesses, which are no longer considered core to the Group.
Four transactions involving entity disposals and one relating to a business Share capital salehave been completed in the year: Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of the Directors in The Board members visited four sites during 2015, primarily to familiarise relation to allotment, issue and market purchases of shares are given on page 67. themselves with the acquired Aeroflex businesses but also to review the change programmes under way in the rest of the business: Financial reporting The Groups dividend policy was revised with future dividend growth now In the Directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2015, together with aligned with earnings growth and with a view to rebuilding dividend cover the trading updates, the interim report and other reports made during the year, over time: and present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position Evaluated and approved four large bid submissions above authority and prospects.
limits delegated to the Executive Directors outside of the regular Board meeting agenda.
The Audit Committee, supported by management, has adopted a detailed process to enable the Board to take this view.
The structured approach identified Priorities for 2016 in the Audit Committee report on page 55 has been adopted for the preparation Continued oversight of the strategic agenda: and production of this Annual Report and Accounts, which the Board formally Review performance against agreed strategic actions, as identified on signed off at its meeting in February 2016. pages16 and 17: Focus on driving customer satisfaction through improved operational The Boards assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable nature of execution and continuous improvement through the business: theAnnual Report and Accounts is further assisted by, amongst other matters, Drive employee engagement to respond to concerns identified as part the following: oftheGreat Place to Work initiative.
Oversee a further survey during The Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by senior management theyear, to include the former Aeroflex employees for the first time: withoverall responsibility for each section.
Comprehensive reviews of the Retain focus on market evaluation and strategic development: and draftAnnual Report and Accounts are undertaken by Executive Directors Continue to rebalance the portfolio in line with strategy.
andother members of the senior management team, and in relation to certainsections by the Companys external auditors and other advisers: Board meeting attendance for 2015 An internal verification process is undertaken by the internal reviewers 13 Board meetings were held during the year, attended as follows: toensure factual accuracy: and John Devaney The drafts of each relevant section are reviewed as they are prepared through an iterative drafting process by the Chairs of appropriate Bob Murphy Committees of the Board and the final draft is reviewed by those 1 Committees prior to consideration by the Board.
Simon Nicholls Jonathan Flint At its February 2016 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts for the 2015 financial year, taken as a whole, is Mike Hagee fair, balanced and understandable and the Board believes that the information 2 Birgit Nrgaard contained provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Mark Ronald 3 The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Alan Semple Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial Review on page 31.
Mike Wareing Role and focus Alison Wood The Boards main duties are to: Unable to attend Attended Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financial 1 performance and long term shareholder value: Simon Nicholls missed one Board meeting due to ill health.
2 Birgit Nrgaard missed a short notice Board meeting due to other business Review and agree the Groups strategy: commitments.
Ensure that the necessary resources are in place: 3 Alan Semple joined the Board on 25 February 2015.
Monitor management performance: and Supervise the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
com Cobham plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board composition Board proceedings The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman John Devaney, a CEO Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, were BobMurphy, a CFO Simon Nicholls and seven other Non-executive Directors held six times during the year on a face to face basis and three were held of whom Mike Wareing is the Senior Independent Director.
In addition, there were four short notice meetings to support Directors are considered to be independent and the Chairman was considered to Boarddecisions required prior to the next scheduled meeting.
There is also be independent on appointment.
They all held office throughout the year except contact between meetings to progress the Groups business as required.
Alan Semple, who joined the Board on 25 February 2015.
Mark Ronald will stand Meetings are held in London and at an international operational location.
down from the Board, having completed nine years as a Non-executive Director, at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
No new Board appointments are planned as In 2015, the Board visited sites in Stevenage and Chesham in the UK, and Alan joined as an additional Board member in 2015.
SanJose and Colorado Springs in the US.
In addition, members of the Board made individual trips to other sites.
Jonathan Flint and Mike Wareing visited Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other Wimborne, UK to increase their understanding of the air-to-air refuelling significant commitments, are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The wide ranging development programmes.
Mike also visited the Davenport and San Diego experience and backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors enable them to sitesinthe US.
Alan Semple and Birgit Nrgaard visited a number of sites as support, debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both part of their induction.
Site visits help the Board to understand the business, thedevelopment of strategy and the performance of the Group.
The attendance itsstrategy, problems being faced and how they may be able to help.
of Directors at Board meetings is set out on the previous page and attendance at The Board is, by necessity, a very diverse group of individuals, some with principal Board Committee meetings as members of such committees during the businessbackgrounds and others with more general management experience.
year is set out in the reports from each committee on pages 50, 53 and 59.
We needthis level of diversity to make sure the decisions made at this level have the right input and challenge.
It is also important for the Board to try to The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in understand and influence the culture around the business, which cannot be the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, copies of which can be achieved from inside the Boardroom.
obtainedfrom Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company Secretary.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing Mike Wareing, the Senior Independent Director, held a meeting with the aspecial resolution.
The Directors and the Company in the latter case by Non-executives, in the absence of the Chairman, to appraise the Chairmans ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, performance and to consider his re-appointment as Chairman for a further three either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
The Non-executives agreed to the re-appointment as Chairman, subject to his re-appointment to the Board being approved, by shareholders, All the Non-executive Directors have confirmed that they have sufficient time atthe 2016 AGM.
The Chairman has also held meetings with the Non-executives to meet their time commitments to the Group.
Copies of their appointment in the absence of the Executive Directors, and 1:1 performance appraisals with letters are available on request to the Company Secretary and will be available each Non-executive Director to discuss, amongst other matters, feedback from forinspection at the AGM.
In accordance with the Code, which recommends that all Directors of The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval.
FTSE350companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, all The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which can be made by eligible Directors currently in office will retire and seek re-election at the AGM.
the Board and those which can be delegated either to committees or otherwise.
The Chairman confirms to shareholders when proposing re-appointment that Among the key matters on which the Board alone may make decisions are the the individuals performance continues to be effective and that the individual Groups business strategy, its five year financial plan, its consolidated budget, continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-executive Directors Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments aresubject to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
toand removals from the Board.
Authority is delegated to management on a structured basis in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board meetings ensuring that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
The CEOs responsibilities include operational performance, Matters delegated in this way include, within defined parameters: the approval corporate social responsibility, and the development and implementation of the ofbidsand contracts, capital expenditures and financing arrangements.
He also focuses on long term growthand development of the Group, its people and customer relationships.
The Boards policy is that the roles The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, of Chairman and CEO should be performed bydifferent people.
including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the provision of oncorporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed, and anadditional channel of communication between the Chairman and the canonly be removed, by the Board.
He also provides another point of contact for shareholders if they have concerns that communication through the normal If a Director were to have a concern that cannot be resolved this would be channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve, or where these recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation, Non-executive Directors are contactsare inappropriate.
invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board if they have concerns.
No such statements were made during 2015.
All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are disclosed, notedand authorised.
Procedures are in place and operating effectively to keepsuch disclosures up to date.
com 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board and committees performance evaluation The interviews with the members of the Board also included individual The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis.
The results of those appraisals were fed back independently During2015, the Board and its committees undertook an external evaluation.
tothe Chairman with the exception of the report on his ownperformance, The evaluation contract was awarded to Armstrong Bonham Carter ABC, which was provided to the Senior Independent Director.
followinga full tender process, which included five other serviceproviders.
Theexercise consisted of an interview with all Board members and the The performance of each of the Boards committees was also subject to Company Secretary, which took place around the December Board meetings.
review, and reports were provided to each respective chair.
The agenda for these interviews was circulated to each participant prior to the meetings and was designed to understand whether the Directors had ABC collated all feedback collected and produced a series of recommendations thoroughly discussed and agreed the use of shareholders funds to ensure the to the Board, which were considered at their February 2016 meeting.
The Company is successful whilst managing therisks inherent in the strategy, plans Board approved an action plan to address the recommendations.
A table of and the operating environment.
Thisisthen augmented by an assessment of actions agreed from this and the previous performance evaluation is included how effective the Board is in ensuring the Group Executive implements the below.
During 2016, the Board will consider how to approach their evaluation strategy, and plans and manages all the other activities of the Company.
As the 2015 exercise was an in-depth external review, for 2016, itis likely to be an internal exercise.
Evaluation year Observations Actions to be taken 2015 Due to the importance of Private Venture PV investment The Board will examine the PV process as part of the annual inensuring the Company grows sustainably, the Board needs strategicreview.
tohave a comprehensive understanding of the opportunities across the diverse portfolio to ensure PV isallocated to the greatest opportunities.
Secondly, the Board should, along with the Group Executive, review regularly the information on customer requirements andsatisfaction.
The Board needs to ensure the new organisation design The Board will be monitoring the resolution of the issues isimplemented successfully.
encountered in the initial implementation of the Cobham BusinessOperating System CBOS.
The Board will oversee the plans to improve culture and staff attitudes and consider assisting the Group Executive in communicating the strategy and the benefits of the organisational design during the Non-executive Directors usual personal visits to improve their knowledge of the Company and through visits to the sites by the Board as a whole.
The Board plans to gain a deeper understanding of the timing and benefits of the Continuous Improvement CI programme to ensure, in the event of further revenue weakness, that there are plans to further reduce cost without putting the strategy at risk.
The continued investment in the products of the business to ensure currency of technology is recognised as key and more emphasis is being placed on pursuing and monitoring strategic opportunities through such investment.
Continued development of the strategic planning process.
The Board identified a number of additional pieces of work they would like to see as part of the 2015 Strategic Review.
These were allscheduled into the work cycle and delivered during the 2015 Boardstrategy discussions, which took place in May 2015.
Specific strategic actions have been set for the CEO and the Group Executive team for 2016, see pages 16 and 17.
The performance of the Executive Directors in the context of their management and operational responsibilities is appraised under the same personal development review PDR system used throughout the business.
Under this process, the Chairman appraises the performance of the CEO, and the CEO reviews the performance of the CFO and members of the Group Executive.
The results of these appraisals are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee andfeed directly into performance awards under the Annual Incentive Plan AIP.
com Cobham plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Summary of 2015 investor relations activity Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Preliminary AGM and Interim results Trading update 2014 results Trading update 2015 Webcast & Webcast & Webcast & conference call conference call conference call Investor Investor Industry Industry Capital Markets Investor conference conference exhibition and exhibition and Day conference investor investor conference conferences Site visit Site visit Investor meetings Investor meetings The Trading update is a short quarterly update on the Groups trading, significant events and financial position.
Board committees Shareholder relations The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
The Company The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective two-way Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Committee chairs provide communication programme with Cobhams shareholders and potential oral reports on the work undertaken by their committees at the following Board shareholders.
This approach assists investors understanding of the value meeting.
Information relating to the activities of each committee may be found driverswithin the Group, including its strategy, business model and on the pages that follow.
All Board committees are provided with sufficient , and allows the Board to understand shareholder resources to undertake their duties.
viewswhen formulating and discussing strategy and policies.
This two-way flowof information helps to ensure the interests of the Company and its The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors Committee.
Cobhams annual programme of shareholder interaction The Executive Directors are the only members of this Committee, under the ispursued overall in a way which is intended to promote this aim.
The purpose is to assist the CEO in the performance of his duties and its terms of reference include: establishing and implementing Both the Strategic Report section of the Annual Report and Accounts and internal policies, systems and controls to ensure that potential inside information theinvestors section of the website www.
com include is communicated to it, considered, verified and released to the market where information on the Group that is intended to be of interest to shareholders, required: the discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans: including the Groups strategy, its businesses, historical financial information, the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors: the andthe Board and governance matters.
approval of banking facilities: and the approval of bids and contracts above thelimits delegated to the Sectors.
This Committee met on 14 occasions During the year, presentations were given by the CEO and CFO to investors duringtheyear and, in addition, decisions were made as required to respond and analysts on the morning of the announcement of the Groups interim tobusiness needs and market conditions.
andpreliminary results and there was an opportunity provided to ask questions at each presentation.
The presentations were accompanied by a live webcast Management committees and audio conference call for investors unable to attend in person.
Copies of the The Group Executive Committee and the other principal management associated presentation materials, together with webcasts, can be accessed on committees are shown in the table below.
All of the below is in addition to Cobhams website, where they remain for subsequent viewing.
The Group also formalbusiness, business development and functional reviews, all of which held a Capital Markets Day in October 2015, which included presentations by areheld on a quarterly basis.
the management teams running the main businesses acquired with the 2014 Aeroflex acquisition.
There was also an opportunity provided to ask questions Board of Directors and to meet the management teams informally before and after the event.
The Director of Investor Relations is also available through the year to deal Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Directors withshareholder queries as they arise.
Committee Committee Committee Committee Board Directors are available at the AGM and shareholders have the opportunity Group Executive incorporating the Risk Committee to question the Board and to meet the Directors informally.
Vertical Corporate Merger & leadership teams I have recently written to our major shareholders, reminding them that I am Responsibility Acquisitions and horizontal & Sustainability available to meet whenever they consider it appropriate.
Committee council meetings Committee Business Ethics & Compliance Committee Internal Audit Talent Board Sub-committee Safety, Health & Environment John Devaney Committee Chairman 2 March 2016 Cobham plc www.
com 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
