CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present Computacenters Corporate Governance Officer of 3i Group plc, and has held Non-Executive Directorships at, report for the year ended 31 December 2015. amongst others, Manchester United plc and Vodafone Group plc.
The Board of Computacenter believes that effective governance In accordance with the Companys procedure for new Directors, both practices are crucial in underpinning the sustainability of the Groups Philip and Minnow received a full induction, which included meetings financial performance and its ability to deliver long-term shareholder with the Chairman of the Board and its Committees, the Group Chief value.
The Board is therefore committed to the principles of good Executive Officer CEO and Group Finance Director FD, the Group governance and supports the guidelines contained within the 2014 UK Human Resources Director HR and the Group Head of Commercial Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code is published by the Finance, as well as other selected members of Group Management.
Financial Reporting Council and can be found at www.
During the year, Brian McBride stepped down from his position as the Senior Independent Director of the Company and Remuneration This Corporate Governance report outlines and explains the Groups Committee Chairman with effect from 18 May 2015.
He has been governance policies and practices, and sets out how the Code has replaced in both roles by Philip Yea.
John Ormerod also stepped down been applied during the year ended 31 December 2015.
It aims to after eight years as a Non-Executive Director and serving as the assist our shareholders in understanding the Groups approach to Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee.
I would like to place on Corporate Governance.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the record my thanks to both John and Brian for the contribution that they United Kingdom Listing Authority, and as a Company listed on the have made to the Groups development.
London Stock Exchange, Computacenter is required to review its practices against the provisions set out in the Code.
A statement of STRATEGY its compliance with the Code can be found on page 58 of this report.
The Board is collectively responsible for providing leadership to and promoting the success of the Group, and for implementing the For ease of reference purposes, the Group has additionally prepared a business model set out and explained on pages 12 and 13 of this separate report by reference to each of the Main Principles of the Code Annual Report and Accounts.
It is essential for the Board to ensure explaining how the Group has complied with each of these.
This report that the Group has the right strategy in place to drive shareholder can be found at www.
value, and to provide appropriate levels of support and challenge to the Executive Management Team.
The development of the Groups BOARD COMPOSITION strategy continues to be discussed at every Board meeting, with an As the Chairman of the Board, it is important for me to ensure that additional annual session dedicated to receiving strategy-related the Board has the right composition to be effective in discharging its presentations from Group Executive Management.
As part of its duties to the shareholders of the Company.
This includes having the continuing review of the effectiveness of the Groups strategy and its right balance of skills and experience, maintaining a strong level of implementation, the Board has spent significant time reviewing the independence and objectivity, and ensuring that all Directors have a Groups strategic key performance indicators.
As a result, these are 2 good knowledge of the Group.
Each of these factors was central to the now reported on a constant currency basis.
decision-making process for the recruitment of the two new NonExecutive Directors to the Board during the year, as set out below.
The changes made to the Board since the 2014 financial year-end, and the process undertaken to facilitate them, have been described and explained in detail within the Nomination Committee report on page 70.
In 2015, both Minnow Powell and Philip Yea were appointed as NonThe Board of Computacenter believes that Executive Directors of the Company.
Minnow joined the Board with effect from 1 January 2015, and his appointment as a Director was approved effective governance practices are crucial by shareholders for the first time at the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting.
We were also pleased to welcome Philip Yea onto the Board in underpinning the Companys ability to with effect from 23 June 2015.
Philip brings with him significant public deliver long-term shareholder value.
company directorship experience, both in executive and Non-Executive roles, He is a former Finance Director of Diageo plc and Chief Executive 56 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS DIVERSITY An internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees has now taken The Board recognises the benefits that diverse skills, experience and place for the reporting period.
Further details of the process carried points of view can bring to an organisation, and how it may assist out and the findings of the evaluation can be found on page 59 of the decision-making ability of the Board, thereby increasing its this report.
After careful consideration of its findings, I am satisfied effectiveness.
Whilst the Board continues to recognise and monitor that the Board continues to function effectively and that its current the continuing debate around possible future legislation in this area, constitution and range of skills are appropriate to ensure that the appointments to the Board will continue to remain primarily based long-term interests of the Group and the Companys shareholders are on merit.
As at 31 December 2015, the Computacenter Board had one protected.
In order to ensure that this remains the case, prior to the female Non-Executive Director, Regine Stachelhaus, representing 12.5 date of this report, the Board additionally reviewed the succession per cent of the total Board membership.
planning arrangements in place for both the Executive and NonExecutive Directors.
It also received a presentation from the Group HR SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Director on how internal talent within the Group immediately below This Corporate Governance report is intended to give shareholders an Board level is managed and developed appropriately in the long-term understanding of the Groups corporate governance arrangements and interests of the Group.
how they operated during the 2015 financial year.
The Board remains committed to communicating with our shareholders and, where I also remain satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular appropriate, submitting its views and considerations for consultation the Non-Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their and feedback.
Further details regarding this engagement with our roles at Board and Committee level as currently required by the shareholders can be found on page 61 of this report.
I will continue to assess both of these judgements to ensure that they remain the case on an ongoing basis.
In accordance with the Code, with the exception of Philip Yea who will be standing for election for the first time following his appointment GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK to the Board in June 2015, all of the Directors will stand for re-election As it is entitled to do under the Companys Articles of Association, the at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Board delegates a number of its responsibilities to Committees so that it may carry out its functions effectively.
A diagram of the Board governance structure is set out on this page.
As part of its ongoing review of the Groups governance procedures and framework, the terms of reference for each of these Committees was reviewed by the Board, and a number of the Groups policies were Greg Lock reviewed and also amended during the year.
The detail and format Non-Executive Chairman of information provided to the Board by Management was updated to allow a more effective review of the Groups trading and financial 11 March 2016 performance.
BOARD VISITS Board Committees To assist in developing and updating the knowledge of the Directors of the Groups business operations, visits to our Group offices overseas are organised for the Board on a regular basis.
During the year, the Board held a meeting at the Groups office in Munich, Germany, where it received presentations from the senior members of the in-country AUDIT COMMITTEE German unit and the Head of the in-country French unit.
These focused respectively on the ongoing work of the German Management team to deliver sustainable growth across its Services business, and the recovery plan in France.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE BOARD NOMINATION COMMITTEE 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT 75 following this report, as do reports from the Chairman of each Computacenter is required under the Listing Rules and Disclosure Committee setting out the main responsibilities of their respective and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority to report to its Committee and its main activities during the year.
The Company shareholders on its compliance with the UK Corporate Governance arranges insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Code, as revised in October 2014.
As such, the Board confirms that, Directors and, to the extent allowed by legislation, the Company except where indicated below, the Company has complied with each has issued an indemnity to each Director against claims brought of the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
1.2: Except for smaller companies, at least half the board, Division of Responsibilities excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate determined by the Board to be independent.
and their responsibilities are clearly set out in writing, reviewed annually and agreed by the Board.
They are available for inspection The Board acknowledges that the Company is not in compliance with on the Companys website at www.
The founders of the Company, Philip In summary, the Chairmans role is to lead and manage the Board, Hulme and Peter Ogden, are Non-Executive Directors, but are not and to play a role in facilitating the discussion of the Groups strategy considered independent under the Code, due to their long tenure, by the Board.
The Chairman actively encourages contribution from substantial shareholding in the Company and their previously held all Directors and is responsible for ensuring that constructive executive positions with the Company.
The Board continues to review interaction is ongoing between the individual members of the Board.
this matter and, as a result of the Board evaluation recently carried The Chairman is also responsible for setting the Boards agenda and out, and of feedback provided to the Chairman from the independent ensuring that sufficient time is available for discussion of all agenda Non-Executive Directors, it remains clear that the contribution being items, and in particular, strategic issues.
made by these two Directors to the Board, not least due to their continuity of service and knowledge of the Company, continues to The CEO, in turn, is responsible for the day-to-day management of be highly valued by its other members.
As the term of these two Nonthe Groups operational activities and for the proper execution of Executive Directors is over six years, the Board has subjected their strategy, as set by the Board.
There is no dominant individual or group continued appointment to rigorous review, taking into account the of individuals on the Board influencing its collective decision-making need to refresh progressively the Board from time to time.
As with all ability and the Board is comfortable that each of the Directors makes of the Directors, these two individuals are subject to re-election by a valuable contribution to the Board.
shareholders on an annual basis, and their tenure as Non-Executive Directors remains in line with statutory provisions relating to the Non-Executive Directors removal of a director.
Philip Yea was appointed as the Senior Independent Director with effect from 23 June 2015, following his appointment to the Board.
LEADERSHIP In this role, Philip acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, and to The role of the Board serve as an intermediary between the Chairman and other Directors The Board is responsible for the management and performance of, where necessary.
He is available to take representations from both and providing effective leadership to, the Group.
It plays a key role institutional and individual shareholders who do not want to raise in discussing, reviewing and approving the strategic objectives of their issue with the Chairman or where they feel that contact with the Group, and through the review of business plans and budgets him is not appropriate in the circumstances.
In his role as the Senior submitted by the Executive Directors and Senior Management, is Independent Director, Philip also leads the appraisal of the Chairmans additionally responsible for ensuring that adequate resources performance annually in consultation with the other Non-Executive are in place to meet and deliver these aims.
The Board reviews the Directors, without the Chairman being present.
performance of the Executive Directors and Senior Management against the targets set for the delivery of these agreed objectives, The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met twice throughout the including a monthly review of the financial performance of each of the year without the Executive Directors being present.
Additionally, the Board has the powers and duties conferred upon it by the relevant laws of England and Wales EFFECTIVENESS and our Articles of Association.
There is also a documented schedule The Composition of the Board of Matters Reserved for the Board which additionally includes the The membership of the Board as at 31 December 2015 is set out consideration and approval of, amongst other things, acquisitions, on pages 54 and 55, and on that date included six Non-Executive major capital expenditure, Group strategy and budgets, the Groups Directors and two Executive Directors.
The attendance of the Directors Financial Statements and its Dividend Policy.
This schedule was at Board and Committee meetings is additionally set out on pages 66, reviewed and updated once during the course of 2015, and is reviewed 70 and 75 of this Annual Report.
on an annual basis as a standing Board agenda item.
This schedule can be found on our website at www.
The Board has considered the independence of each Director, taking into account the guidance provided by the Code.
The Chairman, Greg The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year to deal Lock, was considered by the Board to meet the independence criteria with the standing items on its agenda, including reviewing and set out in the Code on appointment, and each of Minnow Powell, discussing any information provided to it by Senior Management.
Regine Stachelhaus and Philip Yea are considered by the Board to The Board collectively views this as sufficient to discharge its duties be independent in their character and judgement.
Day-to-day management and operational activities are delegated to a duly authorised Group Executive Committee including, Appointments to, and development of, the Board amongst others, the Executive Directors, Group Chief Operating The Companys Nomination Committee leads the process for Board Officer and Group Chief Commercial Officer.
Other Board level matters appointments.
Further detail on the role, membership and work of the Committee during the year is set out on page 70. are delegated to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, details of which can be found at pages 66 to 84.
The Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive a comprehensive Terms of Reference for each Committee can be obtained from the induction programme organised by the Company Secretary, tailored Companys website, www.
com investors or from to their specific background and requirements.
New Directors the Company Secretary, upon request.
The composition of each receive an induction pack which contains information on the Groups Committee as at 31 December 2015 appears on pages 66, 70 and 58 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 business, its structure and operations, Board procedures, corporate standing for election for the first time, all Directors on the Board as at governance related matters and details regarding Directors duties 19 May 2016, should be subject to re-election at the Companys next and responsibilities.
All new Directors are introduced to the Groups AGM to be held on that date.
All Directors will then be subject to election Senior Management team.
The Chairman regularly liaises with each or re-election at each AGM thereafter.
Director to discuss and agree their training and development needs.
The Board is confident that all of its members have the knowledge, ACCOUNTABILITY ability and experience to perform the functions required of a Director Financial and business reporting of a listed company.
The Directors of the Company are required to include the following in this report under section C. 1 of the Code.
Please see: Commitment Externally, there has been no increase in the other significant p age 85 for the Boards statement on the Annual Report and commitments of the Chairman of the Company during the year which Accounts being fair, balanced and understandable and providing would impact the time he has to fulfil the role.
In light of the internal the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Board Evaluation completed for 2015, the Board is satisfied that each position and performance, business model and strategy: of the Directors is able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The terms and conditions of p age 65 for the statement on the status of the Company and the appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors are available for Group as a going concern: and inspection both at the Companys registered office and, on an annual basis, at the Companys AGM.
The standard terms and conditions for t he Strategic Report on pages 1 to 53 for an explanation of the the appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are also available on Groups business model and the strategy for delivering the the governance section of the Companys investor relations website objectives of the Group.
VIABILITY STATEMENT Information and support In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors have All Directors receive appropriate documentation in advance of each assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer-term perspective Board and Committee meeting, including detailed briefings on all than the 12 months required by its Going Concern statement matters, in order to discharge their duties effectively in considering requirement.
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Groups a matter and reaching a decision on it.
current position over a period of three years from the balance sheet date of this Annual Report and Accounts, 31 December 2015.
A procedure is in place to enable individual Directors to obtain This period was selected as an appropriate timeframe for the independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where following reasons: they believe it is important to the furtherance of their duties, and judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
t he Groups rolling strategic review, as considered by the Board, covers a three-year period: The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all t he period is aligned to the length of the Groups Managed Services corporate governance matters and provides advice to the Chairman contracts, which are typically three to five years in duration: and of the Board to ensure that all Board procedures are followed.
All t he short lifecycle and constantly evolving nature of the technology Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company industry lends itself to a period not materially longer than Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary three years.
is a matter requiring Board approval.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be Evaluation viable over a longer period, given the inherent uncertainty involved An internally-run performance review of the Board, its Committees we believe that a three-year period presents readers of the Annual and individual Directors was undertaken for the financial reporting Report and Accounts with a reasonable degree of confidence while still period.
As part of this process a questionnaire was completed by providing a longer-term perspective.
The Board considers annually, and each Director.
The information from each questionnaire was then on a rolling basis, a three-year business plan consisting of the detailed provided to the Chairman of the Board or Committee as appropriate, bottom-up financial target for the current year 2016, following the and the results further considered and discussed by the Board balance date of this Annual Report and Accounts, and two further or Committee as a whole.
The process confirmed that the Board years 2017 and 2018 of forecast information driven by top-down continues to function well, but that Management Information provided assumptions overlaid on the detailed target year.
The three-year plan to the Board prior to its meetings needed to be more concise, and was last considered and approved by the Board on 7 March 2016. that the Board should implement a formal process to analyse the merit, or otherwise, of previous decisions that it has made.
The Board This three year business plan along with the current position and has determined the actions that need to be taken in response to the prospects and the Groups strategy are subject to sensitivity analysis findings of the evaluation.
However, as a result of the effectiveness which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying review undertaken, the Board believes that each Director continues the forecast.
The forecast cash flows from the three year plan are to contribute effectively and demonstrate appropriate commitment aggregated with the current position and other contributors to to the role.
provide a total three year headroom operating envelope against which the total impact of potential risks and uncertainties can be assessed.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Philip Yea, has carried out a review of the Chairmans performance with input from the In the absence of external debt within the Group, access to available remaining Non-Executive Directors, with the feedback provided then uncommitted finance facilities, ability to raise new finance in most discussed formally at the following meeting of the Board.
foreseeable market conditions and the ability to restrict dividend payments as an instrument of last resort were also considered.
Re-election Whilst the Companys Articles of Association require a Director to be subject to election at the first AGM following his or her appointment and thereafter every third year, the Board has decided that, in accordance with the Code, with the exception of Philip Yea who will be 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Impact of Risks The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the The potential impact of the risks and uncertainties, as set out on systems of internal control including financial, operational and pages 16 to 19 of the Annual Report and Accounts, was then applied compliance controls and risk management systems.
It is of the to the outcome of the sensitised three year business plan.
This opinion that the Group has complied with the internal control assessment included only those risks and uncertainties that would requirements of the Code throughout the year.
Where material threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency weaknesses or opportunities for improvement are identified, changes or liquidity over the assessment period and were considered in are implemented and monitored.
severe but reasonable scenarios and included any assessment of how the risks were managed and the effectiveness of any mitigating All systems of internal control are designed to identify, evaluate and actions should the principal risks or uncertainties materialise either manage significant risks faced by the Group continuously.
The key individually or, where a reasonable scenario could suggest, in unison.
elements of the Groups controls are as follows: Where appropriate, a sensitivity analysis is also carried out to Responsibilities and authority structure evaluate the potential impact of the Groups principal risks and The Board has overall responsibility for making strategic decisions uncertainties actually occurring.
and there is a written schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
The Group Executive Committee meets on a monthly basis to discuss The combined effect of the potential occurrence of several of the day-to-day operational matters and, with the implementation of most impactful risks and uncertainties is then compared to the the Group Operating Model now having taken place across all of the headroom envelope generated throughout the three year plan Groups main operating entities, ultimate authority and responsibility to assess whether the business is judged to be able to continue for operational governance sits at Group level.
The Group operates defined authorisation and approval processes Conclusion throughout all of its operations.
Access controls exist where Based on the period and assessment above, the Directors have a processes have been automated to ensure the security of data.
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in Management information systems have been developed to identify operation and meets its liabilities as they fall due over the three year risks and to enable assessment of the effectiveness of the systems period to 31 December 2018. of internal control.
Accountability is reinforced and further scrutiny of costs and revenues encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives to customer satisfaction and profitability.
Risk management The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure facing the Group, including those that threaten its business model, that proposals for capital expenditure are properly reviewed and future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Please refer to pages authorised.
Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and 16 to 19 for further information on the Groups principal risks and approved at divisional level.
Major investment projects are subject uncertainties, including how they are being managed and mitigated.
to approval by the Board, and Board input and approval is sought for all merger and acquisition proposals.
The primary responsibility for identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group lies with executive and operational management.
Planning and reporting processes A comprehensive risk management programme has been developed A three-year strategic plan is prepared or updated by Senior and is monitored by the Group Risk Committee, the members of which Management annually and reviewed by the Board.
A comprehensive include Senior Operational Managers across the Group, the Group budgetary process is completed annually and is subject to the Finance Director and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk.
The approval of the Board.
Performance is monitored through a rigorous Group Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer.
and detailed financial and management reporting system, by which monthly results are reviewed against budgets and agreed targets The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and, through the Audit for the period which, additionally, are compared to historic data Committee, reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Groups as deemed appropriate, such as for the previous year.
The results risk management activities.
The Board receives regular reports from and explanations for variances are regularly reported to the Board.
the Group Risk Committee and periodically reviews the strategic risks Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
faced by the Group and key mitigation plans.
Management and specialists within the Finance Department are Through a programme of assessment, appropriate measures and responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial systems of control are maintained and, where necessary, developed records and processes that ensure financial information is relevant, and implemented.
Detailed business interruption contingency reliable, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and plans are in place for all key sites and these are regularly tested, in distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
accordance with an agreed schedule.
A review of the consolidated Financial Statements is completed by Management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Internal control Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial information published The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and reviewing the by the Group is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
Groups systems of internal control and ensuring that the controls are robust and effective in enabling risks to be appropriately assessed Centralised treasury function and managed.
The Groups systems and controls are designed to The Board has established, and reviews regularly, key treasury manage risks, safeguard the Groups assets and ensure the reliability policies over matters such as counterparty exposure, borrowing of information used both within the business and for publication.
arrangements and foreign exchange exposure management.
The This system of control is designed to reduce to a level consistent with management of liquidity and borrowing facilities for customer the Boards risk appetite, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure specific requirements, ongoing capital expenditure and working to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not capital of the business are all undertaken by the Group Treasury absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Function which reports to the Group Finance Director, with regular reporting to the Board.
60 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Quality and integrity of staff In addition, once a year, the Companys top 15 shareholders are Rigorous recruitment procedures are in place to ensure that new invited to meet individually with the Chairman, Senior Independent employees are of a suitable calibre.
Management continuously Director and Company Secretary to provide feedback on the monitors training requirements, and ongoing appraisal procedures Groups Management and raise other comments, albeit only a few are in place, to ensure that required standards are maintained across shareholders take up this opportunity.
Specifically, at these meetings, the Group.
Resource requirements are identified by managers and the Companys strategy and corporate governance arrangements are reviewed by the relevant Executive Committee.
discussed and feedback is invited on any areas of particular interest from the relevant shareholder.
These meetings are taking place in Compliance policies March and April 2016, in order to address any areas of discussion prior The Group has in place a number of compliance policies which to the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
Again, the Board will be are applied, including those relating to Business Ethics and Antibriefed on the outcomes of these meetings.
Any breach of these policies by an employee is considered a are available to meet with major shareholders at any time and can disciplinary matter and is dealt with accordingly.
The internal control be contacted through the Company Secretary at the Companys regime is supported by the operation of a Whistleblowing reporting registered office address.
function, which is soon to be operated by an external independent third party provider.
Constructive use of General Meetings All of the Directors aim to attend the AGM and value the opportunity Internal audit of welcoming individual shareholders and other investors to The Group has an Internal Audit Function which reports to the communicate directly and address their questions.
In addition to Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The function has direct access to mandatory information, a full, fair and balanced explanation of the the CEO and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Its key objectives business of all general meetings is sent in advance to shareholders.
are to provide independent and objective assurance on risks and Resolutions at the Companys general meetings have been passed controls to the Board, the Audit Committee and Senior Management, on a show of hands and proxies for and against each resolution and to assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and together with any abstentions are announced at such meetings, regulatory responsibilities.
The Board, acting through the Audit noted in the minutes, available on the Companys website and notified Committee, has directed the work of the Internal Audit department to the market.
towards those areas of the business that are considered to be of the highest risk.
The Audit Committee approves a rolling audit programme, Annual General Meeting ensuring that all significant areas of the business are independently The AGM of the Company will be held on Thursday 19 May 2016 at the reviewed over, approximately, a three-year period.
The programme offices of the Companys lawyers Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, and the findings of the reviews are assessed continually to ensure London, EC2Y 8HQ.
The AGM notice of meeting sets out each of the that they take account of the latest information and in particular, resolutions being proposed.
This notice will shortly be available for the results of the annual review of internal control and any shifts download from www.
com, and will be mailed to in the focus areas of the various businesses.
The effectiveness of shareholders if they have elected to receive hard copies.
the Internal Audit department and the Groups risk management programme are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
The role of Compliance with DTR the Internal Audit function and its scope of work continue to evolve to The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6, relating to the share take account of changes within the business.
A formal audit charter, capital of the Company, can be found within the Directors report which was updated during the year, is in place to guide the work and from page 62. procedures of the function.
By order of the Board Audit Committee and the Auditor For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee and the Auditor, please refer to the Audit Committee on pages 66 to 69.
Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 84 explains the Simon Pereira work of the Remuneration Committee, and the level and components Company Secretary of remuneration for the Directors.
11 March 2016 Relations with shareholders The Board recognises and values the importance of meeting the Companys shareholders to obtain their views and has established a programme to communicate with shareholders, based on its financial reporting calendar.
Dialogue with Shareholders The Board is informed of any substantial changes in the ownership of the Companys shares by the Companys corporate brokers who provide monthly reports on that ownership.
In addition, meetings are held with major shareholders following both the full-year and half-year results.
Normally, these meetings are with the CEO and FD The whole Board is briefed on the outcome of these meetings and any issues raised are discussed.
It additionally receives feedback reports from the Groups public relations firm, Tulchan Communications LLP, and the Companys corporate brokers, Investec plc and Credit Suisse.
