RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS PEOPLE WINNING Barry Hoffman Group Human Resources Director TOGETHER People, like our services and innovations, are a major source Every young person on one of these pathways brings a fresh and ofcompetitive advantage and we continually review our approach innovative approach to how we do business, and we are justly proud toattracting and retaining talented individuals.
of the achievements of each of them but it is always nice to be recognised externally.
We are honoured to have been awarded Highly During 2014, we looked closely at our people strategy.
We embarked Commended Apprentice Employer at the National Apprentice Awards onan initiative, working with employees from all levels across all of for our passion and commitment to the apprentices in our business.
ourgeographies, to understand better what we value in them and how we communicate this against the backdrop of our business strategy.
We dont just consider the added value that we bring to our customers The outcome is our Winning Together values.
These articulate our with the products and services we offer: we also continually assess long-held beliefs and have been cascaded to everyone across the the value we bring to our employees, both current and future.
Winning Together is a cornerstone of our people strategy, and Employer Brand experience has been aligned to our Winning Together one which we expect to last for many years to come.
values and focuses on empowering our people: together we win by making sure our people have the autonomy and support they need Our Winning Together values are important to our business because to deliver exceptional solutions for our customers.
asaGroup we win by: putting customers first: Our continuing success is based on hiring, developing and retaining being straightforward: and high-quality people: more than 34 per cent of our people across the keeping promises.
Group have worked with Computacenter for over 10 years.
We strive to make Computacenter an exciting place to work.
We are proud of the And we do this together by: fact that our people are at the heart of everything we do, and that our understanding people matter: customers value the skills and experience our people bring to work considering the long term: and with them each day.
Winning Together is more than just six bullet points.
It is a way to differentiate our people, enable our business to make better decisions and provide superior services to our customers.
To drive the continuous development of our people, we have invested heavily in a new performance management programme along with We are proud of the fact that our people consistent and easy-to-use cloud-based technologies from Success Factors and SAP.
This will provide our managers and employees are at the heart of everything we do.
with the information they need to track their performance and development.
As a result, this Group initiative will help us on our journey to becoming a truly integrated organisation across multiple teams and countries.
We are passionate about the competitive advantage that comes from nurturing our people, and invest in growing future leaders for the business.
During the last year, we have also enhanced our range of people skills development programmes across the Group, from short-term work experience for the young, through to business mentoring and support schemes alongside Apprenticeships, Associate Programmes and Graduate or Industrial Placement Programmes.
As a measure of our commitment in 2015, more than 10 per cent of new starters in our German and UK operations have been apprentices, placements or associates, and more than two per cent of all employees in these countries are on an early in careers scheme.
14 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS VENDORS STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 EVOLUTION AND REVOLUTION IN Mike Rodwell Group Chief Commercial Officer SUPPL Y CHAIN We are accustomed to change in the IT industry, but even by the Cloud computing has become part of the corporate vocabulary, standards of this fast-moving environment, the last couple of years butterms such as software defined, , hyper have been momentous.
The split of both HP and Symantec into two convergence and hyper scale are now becoming firmly established, businesses: the sale of IBMs System x business to Lenovo: Dells as the demand for speed and agility becomes ever morebusiness return to private ownership and its stated intention to acquire EMC, critical.
The rapid pace of change in both partner and technology another industry giant, are all changing the vendor landscape in landscapes is a business reality which provides a major opportunity ways that few people could have imagined.
Both traditional and emerging partners rely on Computacenter to help embed their new products and technologies While many of the industry stalwarts are entering a period of into supply chain and end-to-end solutions.
By combining our first acquisition, consolidation or major structural change, new names, class logistics with the expertise of our specialists, consultants and such as Nutanix, SimpliVity, Pure Storage and Nimble, are further project managers, we help customers gain maximum benefit from challenging the status quo.
In the case of Nutanix and SimpliVity, new and evolving technologies and trends as quickly andseamlessly their willingness to partner in new infrastructure-based ecosystems as possible.
has resulted in them collaborating with established companies including Dell, Lenovo and Cisco: companies that would typically Across Computacenter, I am proud to lead more than 1,000 dedicated favour home-grown solutions but who have adapted their strategies professionals working within Group Commercial Operations spanning to accommodate this new way of working.
Pure Storage and Nimble Inside Sales, Partner Management and Logistics Operations.
Aspart of are, onthe other hand, challenging the traditional storage vendors managing the end-to-end product lifecycle, this team maintains trusted with a Flash-centric assault on the market.
Many of these emerging commercial relationships with the Original Equipment Manufacturer companies will ultimately be acquired by larger organisations seeking OEM and distribution partners that underpin Computacenters to enhance their portfolios while at the same time protecting their 2 billion annual Supply Chain business.
Their knowledge, combined legacy offerings, as was the case recently with NetApps acquisition with that of their colleagues in our Solutions and Services business of SolidFire.
We await with interest to see how Computacenters major areas, isdisseminated throughout Computacenter and its customer partners, including the newly created Hewlett Packard Enterprise base toaid decision-making for today and planning for tomorrow.
HPE and HP Inc. Cisco, Lenovo and potential Dell EMC combination, continue to adapt to these market changes.
The rapid pace of change in both partner and technology landscapes is a business reality which provides a major opportunity for Computacenter.
