AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Attendance Current Members Role record 1.
Minnow Powell Non-Executive Director 5 5 Chairman 2.
Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 1 2 Attendance Former Members Role record Minnow Powell 5.
John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 2 2 Audit Committee Chairman 6.
Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 3 3 COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Its main responsibilities during the year, as set out in the Code, were As at 31 December 2015, the Audit Committee was comprised of the as follows: three Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
All members to monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the are considered to be appropriately qualified and experienced to fulfil Company and any formal announcements related to the their role and allow the Committee to perform its duties effectively.
Companys financial performance, and to review any significant For the purposes of Code provision C. 3.1, two members of the financial reporting judgements contained therein: Committee, both Minnow Powell and Philip Yea, are considered to have to review the Companys internal financial controls and review recent and relevant financial experience.
the Companys internal control and risk management systems: review the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit and Risk MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE Management functions: The Committee met five times during the course of 2015.
Meetings review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in are routinely attended by the Chairman of the Board, Group Finance confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties relating Director, Chairman of the Group Risk Committee, Group Head of to financial or other matters in confidence and ensuring that Financial Reporting, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management arrangements are in place for the proportionate and and the external Auditor.
They cover a standing list of agenda items independent investigation of such matters: which is based on the Committees terms of reference, and considers review on an ongoing basis the Companys relationship with its additional matters at the discretion of the Chairman as and when external Auditor, including monitoring its independence and deemed necessary.
Meetings are also attended by the Group Company objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, ensuring Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the Committee.
I am satisfied that that an appropriate policy is in place concerning any engagement the flow of supporting information to the Committee is appropriate of the Auditor for the provision of non-audit services to the and provided in good time to allow members sufficient opportunity Company and making recommendations to the Board in respect to review matters due for consideration at each Committee meeting.
of the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor I am also satisfied that meetings were scheduled to allow sufficient and the remuneration paid to it by the Company: and time to enable full and informed debate.
the provision of advice to the Board to enable it to report on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are In addition to the meetings of the Committee, the Chairman also met fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information privately on occasion with individual members of management during necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, the year, principally in order to discuss the risks and challenges faced business model and strategy.
by the business and, importantly, how these are being addressed.
On two occasions during the year, the Committee meets separately ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE with the external Auditor and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk The activities of the Committee are based upon its Terms of Management without management present.
Reference, and are set out below: PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE FINANCIAL REPORTING AND JUDGEMENTS Immediately following each meeting of the Committee, the Chairman The Committee reviewed the integrity of the Financial Statements of reports to the Board on its activities, and how it is discharging the Group and, in doing so, considered the following key judgements its responsibilities as set out in its Terms of Reference which made in their preparation: can be found on the Companys website at www.
Revenue recognition The Groups revenue recognition policies were a focus of the Committees work during the year.
Following the consideration of a detailed report received from the external Auditor in their first year and discussions with Management concerning the overall principles and practical application of revenue recognition for both Services and Supply Chain revenue, the Committee concluded that the timing of recognition continues to be in line with current IFRS requirements, and that the judgements exercised by Management in this area are appropriate.
The Committee also noted, as set out in their report, the detailed findings of the audit procedures carried out by the external Auditor both on Supply Chain and Services revenue.
66 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Exceptional and other Adjusting Items VIABILITY STATEMENT The Committee considered the nature and quantum of those The Code now requires the Directors of the Company, taking into items disclosed as exceptional in the Groups 2015 Annual Report account the Groups current position and principal risks, to explain and Accounts.
It considered the judgements made by Management in the Annual Report and Accounts how they have assessed the in calculating an updated provision for the restructuring in France, prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why reviewing the nature and estimates of increased costs alongside they consider that period to be appropriate.
The Directors are further input from the external Auditor to confirm that these were required to state whether they have a reasonable expectation that the reasonable.
Following this review, the Committee concurred with Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as Managements assessment to recognise an additional restructuring they fall due over the assessment period they have chosen, drawing cost of 1.5 million.
attention to any qualifications or assumptions as necessary.
This new requirement is known as a Viability Statement.
The Committee also reviewed the classification of the gain recognised by the Group following its sale of R. D. Trading Limited in February 2015.
Following its review of proposals from Management, the Committee Following input from the external Auditor, it considered Managements recommended to the Board that it set the period of assessment for proposal that the gain be reported outside of the Groups adjusted this Viability Statement at three years, given the nature of the Groups 1 results.
The Committee was satisfied that Managements proposal business model and its strategic time horizon.
The Committee and to report the gain as a separate line on the face of the income Board reviewed Managements financial forecasts for the three-year statement, due to its materiality and infrequency, was in line with the period of assessment, and challenged the process undertaken and Groups accounting policy and assisted in presenting the Groups 2015 assumptions made by the Groups Risk Committee in assessing how results in a manner which is fair, balanced and understandable.
those forecasts would be impacted by a realistic concurrence of the Groups principal risks.
As a result, the Committee recommended The Committee has continued to monitor the progress of the Groups to the Directors that they could make the statement required for two remaining onerous contracts in Germany during the year.
the assessment period without qualification.
The statement and Following ongoing improved operational and financial performance explanation from the Directors can be found with the Corporate on these contracts, it was proposed by Management that 0.4 million Governance Statement on page 56. of the provision taken in respect of losses forecast to be incurred on the contracts be released as an exceptional item in the Companys OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITY 2015 Accounts.
The Committee reviewed the judgements made by During the year, the Committee reviewed its own Terms of Reference Management in this area and agreed that the proposed quantum of against the Code and the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance for release was appropriate.
Audit Committees, following which these were submitted to, and subsequently approved by, the Board.
It received and approved a The Committee also considered the presentation of adjusted profit in recommendation from Management for the implementation of a the first half of the Annual Report and Accounts, after taking account Group-wide Ethics Policy to underpin and complement the updated of the Financial Reporting Council guidance on exceptional items.
controls soon to be in place which enable staff, in confidence, to We concluded that the presentation of adjusted profit gave clarity on raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other performance and was reconciled appropriately to reported amounts, matters.
Prior to the date of this report, it also received a report from with sufficient prominence.
an independent third-party consultant reviewing the adequacy of the Groups anti-bribery and corruption procedures, following a number of Going concern basis for the Financial Statements recommendations made by it as a result of a similar exercise carried To inform the Boards assessment of whether it was appropriate out at the beginning of 2014. for the Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Financial Statements, at both the half year and full year, the Committee The Committee reviewed policies, processes and the reporting of the considered detailed reviews, based on the Groups financial Groups tax and treasury functions, and controls around purchase plans, in relation to liquidity and solvency of the Group taking into to pay and order to cash.
A review of the Companys distributable consideration its cash position and committed bank facilities.
reserves was carried out prior to the declaration of a second interim It considered the financing requirements of the Group in the context dividend by the Company in the respect of the reporting period.
of available committed facilities, including one of 40 million which remains undrawn, and challenged Managements forecasts Having been requested to do so by the Board in accordance with concerning trading performance.
The Committee noted the Code Code provision C. 3.4, the Committee also provided advice on whether requirement for the Directors to state whether they consider it the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting for and understandable and provides the information necessary for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Groups 2015 Financial Statements.
Following its considerations, business model and strategy.
The Committee sought assurance the Committee was satisfied that the going concern basis of as to the review procedures performed by Management to support preparation continues to be appropriate.
and provide assurance to the Board in making this statement.
These include clear guidance issued to all contributors to ensure Overdue French receivables a consistent approach and a formal review process to ensure that During the year, the level of overdue receivables owed to the Groups the Annual Report and Accounts is factually correct and includes all French business has as set out in note 18 in the Financial Statements relevant information.
Following a review, the Committee advised the reduced substantially from that outstanding at the end of 2014, Board that appropriate procedures had been applied.
against which a provision was recognised at that time.
The Committee monitored the position throughout the year and requested that the Auditor review the position at year-end, with specific consideration being given to the nature of remaining receivables and their likely recoverability.
The Committee reviewed the work carried out and considered that the remaining provision was appropriate.
67 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE OF THE COMMITTEE THE INTEGRITY OF THE GROUPS RELATIONSHIP WITH THE AUDITOR No major matters were raised in the annual evaluation of the AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS Committees performance.
External audit The Audit Committee is required to oversee the Groups relationship THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS AND THE RISK with its Auditor, and to make recommendations in relation to the MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Board concerning the appointment, reappointment and remuneration On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee is responsible for of the Auditor.
overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of Internal Control and the Risk Management Framework, and during the year Audit Quality Review Team reviewed the effectiveness of a number of its internal control In November 2015, the Company received a letter of comment procedures.
A number of detailed areas for improvement are from the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review Team identified and actions implemented as a result of the review of AQRT, following its review of Ernst & Young LLPs E&Y audit of our internal controls by Management and the Internal Audit function.
The areas highlighted by the AQRT were To assist the Board, the Committee monitors the risk management around the audit of impairment and of certain aspects of revenue processes and reports from Internal Audit.
In respect of the former, the Audit Committee concluded to monitor implementation of agreed improvements.
that our considerations in respect of the 2015 Financial Statements did not highlight any matters that undermined the position presented The Group Risk Committee GRC meets on a quarterly basis to review at 31 December 2014.
In respect of the latter, the Audit Committee the key risks facing the business.
These are identified and assessed requested that KPMG LLP KPMG, our new Auditor, carried out certain as to their likelihood and impact within the Groups Heat Risk Map, and procedures relating to 2014, and enquired as to whether KPMGs audit are then reviewed in conjunction with accompanying risk mitigation procedures also covered the findings of the AQRT in respect of E&Ys plans.
The GRC minutes are circulated to the Audit Committee for audit of the 2014 Financial Statements.
The results of the additional review, with any matters of note highlighted and explained to the procedures and of our enquiries were satisfactory.
Committee by the GRC Chairman.
This includes an analysis of how the exposure of the Group to these risks may have moved during the Reappointment of the Auditor previous three-month period, how mitigations to the risks have been Following the results of a review of the effectiveness of the external introduced or developed, and also provides an assessment of the Auditor, and further discussions amongst the Committee, we have effectiveness of the process in the view of the GRC.
recommended to the Board that it propose the reappointment of KPMG as the Groups Auditor for approval by the Companys shareholders THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION at its 2016 AGM.
KPMG was first appointed as the Groups Auditor with The Committee continues to oversee the Internal Audit function and, effect from May 2015, following a competitive tender process.
The in the second half of the year, a new Head of Internal Audit and Risk Committee will continue to review the performance of KPMG as set out Management was appointed.
The Committee received an update from below on an annual basis.
the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management at each meeting during the year on current audit activities, and any associated Effectiveness of the external audit process issues resulting from the completion of their work.
The Chairman The Committee places great importance on ensuring a high quality, of the Committee meets with the Head of Internal Audit and Risk effective external audit process.
When conducting the annual review, Management on a number of occasions throughout the year, through the Committee considers the performance of the Auditor as well as which he is updated regularly on the activities of the Internal Audit their independence, compliance with relevant statutory, regulatory function, and receives a frequent assessment as to whether the and ethical standards and objectivity.
The annual Internal Audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee and kept under review to reflect the The Committee reviewed the effectiveness and quality of the external changing needs of the business and to ensure that new and emerging audit process in KPMGs first year by: business risks are appropriately considered within it.
A core function of the Group Internal Audit Department relates to reviewing and r eviewing the audit plan and monitoring changes in response to providing assurance to the Committee regarding the effectiveness of new issues or changing circumstances: controls over bid management and contract reporting.
receiving reports on the results of the audit work performed: and c onsidering the report of AQRT on KPMG.
Responses provided by WHISTLEBLOWING KPMG are reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee directed that an exercise be undertaken to review the arrangements put in place by Management to ensure that staff are The Committee will review further the effectiveness of the external able, in confidence, to raise concerns about possible improprieties in audit process by means of a survey which is completed by key financial and other matters.
Following this exercise, the Committee stakeholders and relevant internal management.
The matters received and approved a recommendation from the Groups HR covered by the survey include the quality of delivery of the service Director that this facility be outsourced to an appropriate external and the KPMG employees that are delivering it, including their third party in light of the increasingly international nature of the understanding of the business and its audit risks, their degree of Groups business, and the language and time-zone challenges that scepticism and challenge, alongside their competency.
The results of this presents.
The Committee is satisfied that, as at the date of the questionnaire will then be discussed as a specific agenda item at this report, arrangements are in place for the proportionate and the Committee meeting immediately following the completion of the independent investigation of such matters, including appropriate questionnaire process, and any actions requested by the Committee follow-up action.
to enhance effectiveness will be followed-up and appropriately monitored thereafter.
68 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Auditor independence The Committee places considerable importance on ensuring the continuing independence of the Groups Auditor.
This topic is reviewed at least annually with the Auditor, who confirms their independence to the Committee twice a year.
In support of maintaining the Auditors independence, the Committee has established a policy in relation to the scope and extent of provision of non-audit services by the Groups Auditor which is summarised on this page.
During the year, the Committee monitored compliance with this policy monitoring the level of non-audit work provided by the external Auditor, resulting in non-audit fees being 45.9 per cent of the KPMG overall audit fee during 2015, as set out below: 2015 000 Auditors remuneration: Audit of the Financial Statements 43 Audit of subsidiaries 478 Total audit fees 521 Audit related assurance services 17 Taxation compliance services 44 Other assurance services 54 Taxation advisory services 124 Total non-audit services 239 Total fees 760 The Committee deemed appropriate to use the Groups Auditor for this work due to their existing and detailed prior knowledge and understanding of the business, although the appropriateness of using KPMG for taxation work moving forward is under consideration, and will be considered further by the Committee in 2016.
The Group has entered into a Datacenter Procurement Project with KPMG, to provide support in the building of a new Datacenter.
The agreement involves the purchase of goods from, and supply of related services by Computacenter in the ordinary course of business and on an arms length basis, and the value of the contract is not material to either party.
It is therefore a type of agreement permitted by Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards between an audit firm and its audit client.
The Committee further noted that KPMG had run a competitive tender process, identified Computacenter as the preferred supplier for the project and that the KPMG Audit team would not engage in any conversation with its Procurement and Technical Solutions Delivery Team regarding service delivery or the negotiations of contracts and pricing.
The Committee also received a report from KPMG confirming that it had considered potential threats to its independence arising from this agreement, and had concluded that these could be managed by appropriate safeguards.
Non-audit services Summary of policy for engagement of the Auditor to undertake non-audit work The Auditor is appointed primarily to report on the annual and interim Financial Statements.
The Committee places a high priority on ensuring that their independence and objectivity is not compromised.
We have achieved this by considering Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 5 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
This relates to non-audit services provided to audited entities and sets out six principles which underpin objectivity and independence, for example that the Auditor cannot act as management nor audit their own work.
The Committee recognises, however, that there are occasions when the Auditor is best placed to undertake other accounting, advisory and consultancy work in view of their knowledge of the Groups business, confidentiality and cost considerations.
The Committee has therefore established procedures to ensure that any non-audit work is only undertaken by the Auditor where there is no risk of compromise to their independence.
To this end, the Committee has defined formally areas of work for which the Auditor will be prohibited from engagement and areas where, subject to following the stipulated processes of authorisation and where appropriate, competitive tendering, the Auditor may be engaged.
The former areas of work include the preparation of accounting records and Financial Statements which will ultimately be subject to audit.
Currently, the latter areas of potential engagement may include acquisition due diligence and tax compliance and advice.
In all cases significant non-audit engagements are subject to prior approval by the Audit Committee or if approval is required between meetings, by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the Committee does not expect the value of non-audit services to exceed the aggregate value of audit and audit related services in any financial year.
Minnow Powell Chairman of the Audit Committee 11 March 2016 69
