NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Attendance Current Members Role record 1.
Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman Chairman of the Board 3 3 2.
Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 1 1 Attendance Former Members Role record Greg Lock 5.
John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 1 1 Nomination Committee Chairman 6.
Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 1 1 MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The members of the Nomination Committee are the independent NonAs part of the selection process, the Committee considered whether Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
Further detail on each candidate would have sufficient time to devote to being a the membership of the Committee and attendance at its meeting can Non-Executive Director of the Company, given their other existing be found directly above.
However, input from all the Directors is sought commitments.
Prior to formally recommending to the Board that Philip by the Committee and it involves the Board when performing its key Yea be appointed as the Senior Independent Director of the Company, responsibilities.
the Committee considered and agreed that he would be independent in character and judgement, as defined under provision B1.1 of the UK The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
Philip was also appointed as a member of the Companys Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees with RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE effect from 23 June 2015.
The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to assist the Board with: Election and re-election of Directors The Committee reviewed in detail the performance of the Directors t he search and selection process for the appointment of both who are standing for election or re-election at the Companys 2016 Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Board, and ensuring AGM.
The results of the Companys most recent Board evaluation that any such process is formal and transparent: process were considered, alongside the contribution made by each e nsuring that the Board, and its Committees, have the right balance individual, with the exercise being particularly rigorous in respect of skills, knowledge and experience to enable each to discharge its of Non-Executive Directors who have been in their role for six years duties and responsibilities effectively: or longer.
Following this review, the Committee recommended that r eview whether to recommend a Director for re-election at the each Director on the Board as at 31 December 2015 be put forward for Companys Annual General Meeting: election or re-election by the Companys shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
r eviewing whether each Director has sufficient time to discharge his her duty to the Company and its shareholders: Diversity s uccession planning for the Board and Senior Executives The Committee, and additionally the Board, continues to recognise of the Group: the benefits that diverse skills, experience and points of view can reviewing the membership of its Committees.
bring to an organisation, and how it may assist the decision-making ability of the Board, thereby increasing its effectiveness.
Whilst the The full terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are Board continues to recognise and monitor the continuing debate available on our website: www.
around possible future legislation in this area, appointments to the Board will continue to remain primarily based on merit, and it has not MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2015 therefore set any measurable targets in this area.
As at 31 December The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during 2015 and 2015, the Computacenter Board had one female Non-Executive its work included the following: Director, Regine Stachelhaus, representing 12.5 per cent of the total Board membership.
Board appointments There have been two Non-Executive appointments to the Board during the course of the reporting period.
Minnow Powell was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2015, and became Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 April 2015.
The process relating to his appointment was set out for shareholders in the 2014 report of the Committee.
Greg Lock Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee led the process to search for, identify and nominate a new Non-Executive Director in 2015.
In advance of 11 March 2016 instructing an external search to be undertaken, the Committee considered the skills, knowledge and experience on the Board following the resignations of John Ormerod and Brian McBride during the first half of the year.
The Committee then instructed the external search firm Russell Reynolds, which had no other connection with the Company other than providing this type of service.
It was provided with a profile of the required candidate, following which a search was carried out to identify suitable individuals.
These were then interviewed by both the Nomination Committee and by the remaining Board Directors.
