Corporate governance Report of the Nomination Committee 2015 saw the Committee focus onBoardevaluation and succession planning, including my own desire to step down aschairman.
of the balance of skills, experience, knowledge Dear shareholder and diversity and the resultant identification 2015 saw the Committee focus on Board of any gaps, either in the short, medium or evaluation and Board Committee composition The Committees terms of reference longer term, and recommendations to address and succession planning, including my own are available at: these.
Succession planning for key Board desire to step down as chairman.
positions forms part of our wider remit and, www.
co. uk investoras such, we have insight into the Groups relations corporate-governance Role and responsibilities Leadership and Development Programme.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring We are also responsible for agreeing the that the composition of the Board and its annual Board effectiveness review process Committees is appropriate and enables it to Board and Committee composition and monitoring any actions arising.
This requires evaluation The matter considered by the Committee in its meeting in October 2015 was in light of Committee composition my decision to step down as non-executive The membership of the Committee, together with appointment date, is set out below: chairman.
The Board authorised the Committee to establish a sub-committee, excluding me Member Nomination Committee member since due to having a potential conflict of interest, Grenville Turner chairman 1 September 2014 to engage in the search and selection Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 process for a new chairman.
Cathy Turner David Watson 2 September 2013 was appointed to chair the sub-committee and lead the process of identifying a suitable Richard Adam 9 June 2014 successor as chairman.
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014 Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 In this initial meeting to commence the search process, the Committee considered the skills There has been no change in composition of The Committees work and experience desired in my successor the Committee during the year.
We therefore The Committee held two formal meetings andprepared a candidate profile.
The remained in full compliance with the Code during 2015 which were to commence sub-committee appointed an independent recommendation that a majority of members theprocess for the Companys appointment search and selection agency, Ridgeway should be independent non-executive ofa new chairman.
The main matters that Partners, to assist in the search for suitable directors throughout the year.
theCommittee considered during the year candidates.
Ridgeway Partners has no prior are described on the following page.
An initial list of Attendance by members at the meetings potential candidates was presented to the isshown on page 45. non-executive directors for consideration and discussion.
Following this first scoping meeting, which I had been invited to attend and comment on alongside the other directors, Ithen stepped down from active participation and formal decision making anddid not formpart of the sub-committee tasked with locating and appointing mysuccessor.
46 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Following interviews by Ridgeway Partners, contributions to the Board as quickly as directors being present.
For the Board this initial list was reduced to a shortlist of possible.
Key stages of the induction Committees the process was collated three potential external candidates who were programme are: provision of documents in bythecompany secretary and responses initially interviewed by Cathy Turner and relation to the Board, strategy, performance and actions were discussed and agreed Alison Platt.
At their meeting in December and corporate governance: meetings with atthe respective Committees.
2015, the sub-committee considered this the executive directors to gain an overview During the year, the Board appointed an final shorter list of preferred candidates.
of the business, current trading and key independent agency, Lintstock, to conduct commercial issues: meetings with other In making their recommendations to the Board aformal externally facilitated evaluation of directors and senior executives to discuss in 2016, the sub-committee specifically the performance of the Board, its Committees, commercial issues and projects: and site considered the existing non-executive the directors and the chairman in compliance visits, as required, to key locations to experience and skill sets and the desirable with the Code recommendation for triennial gainanunderstanding of the business experience in suitable candidates to ensure external evaluation.
Lintstock have no prior andoperations.
the right mix of skills and experience as the connection with the Group.
The sub-committee chairman All directors are also offered subsequent The Board has instructed Lintstock to provide led the selection process, interviewing training to suit their needs and continuous a phased three-year plan: aselection of shortlisted candidates and professional development requirements.
proposing a narrower list of possible appointees Alldirectors also have access to the advice 2015: during November 2015, to be interviewed by the remainder of the and services of the company secretary in questionnaires were distributed to all Board.
Following these interviews, and based addition to access to independent professional directors to cover: full Board review: individual upon a combination of feedback from all of advice at the Companys expense where they performance review: chairman review: the interviewers, the sub-committee met to judge it necessary to discharge their duties andreview of each of the three Board agree the preferred candidate and proposed as directors.
These questionnaires were remuneration terms.
The remuneration terms also supplemented to include Lintstock The more strategic issue of succession planning were formulated using independent data interviews with each of the directors: for executive and non-executive roles was provided to the sub-committee by New also considered as part of the wider Building 2016: completion of questionnaires Bridge Street advisors to the Remuneration our Future strategic review and associated asdetailed above: and Committee and an annual fee of 180,000 restructuring of the executive team during was agreed.
The sub-committee chairman 2017: completion of questionnaires the year.
As part of the organisational redesign, made recommendations to the Board assupplemented again by Lintstock core skills and capabilities were reviewed basedupon the consensus expressed andinterviews with each of the directors.
against the requirements of the Group and byallinterviewers.
By 2017, following the appointment of candidates for key positions were interviewed anew chairman during 2016, the Board The Company believes that diversity of and assessed by Talent Q, an external advisory memberships will have been in operation experience and approach, including gender company with no connection to the Group, for a full year and will thus provide a well and race diversity, amongst Board members to conclude independent assessments prior grounded base of experience to refresh is of great importance and it is the Companys to appointment and ensure the development aneffective discussion of opportunities policy to give careful consideration to issues of executive strength within the Group.
of Board balance and diversity when making Inaddition, we have also invested in our senior new appointments.
The search for candidates management development programme during As the initial phase of this process has and any subsequent appointments are, the year.
To support our leaders to effectively concluded in such close proximity to therefore, made purely on merit regardless lead through organisational change, embed preparation of the annual report, with the ofgender, race, religion, age or disability our values and drive business performance, final report due to be tabled for Board inorder to secure an appropriate balance we held a series of senior leadership events consideration on30 March 2016, details ofskills and attributes that are needed to in November and December 2015 in addition ofthe conclusions from the external ensure effective stakeholder engagement to an ongoing programme of leadership Boardevaluation process and resultant and deliver the business strategy.
recommendations, and progress against these, will be provided in our 2016 annual report.
Given our commitment to appointing the Board effectiveness best people and ensuring that all employees Following the internal performance evaluation At the start of the year, an internal evaluation of have an equal chance of developing their conducted during the year, I am pleased the performance of the Board, its Committees, careers within the Group, we do not think toconfirm the effective performance of the directors and the chairman was conducted itis appropriate to set targets for Board eachnon-executive director and the time using an internal questionnaire process, as appointments.
As gender diversity remains commitment of each non-executive director.
For the Board itself, this atopic of significant discussion, we note that I am therefore confident that each of them process was led by the chairman and included three of the nine members of our Board are would be in a position to discharge their duties separate discussions with each director as female.
In addition to Board diversity, we to the Company in the coming year and, required to follow up on specific feedback believe in promoting diversity at all levels accordingly, as detailed in the notice of the and is supported on an ongoing basis by ofthe organisation and further details of our AGM, all directors will stand for re-election.
thepractice of the chairman meeting with workforce diversity are set out on pages 37 the non-executive directors, without the and 38. executive directors being present, following Following appointment to the Board, all each Board meeting.
In respect of evaluation directors received a tailored induction of the performance of the chairman, this was Grenville Turner programme, providing an opportunity to gain conducted by the deputy chairman by Chair of the Nomination Committee an understanding of the Group business and discussion with each of the non-executive 25 February 2016 organisation, operations and governance directors without the chairman or executive environment, allowing them maximise their Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 47
