Corporate governance Board of directors As at the date of signing the directors report, the following people were directors of the Company: Grenville Turner Peter Long Alison Platt David Watson Jim Clarke Chairman Chairman designate Chief executive officer Deputy chairman Chief financial officer Independent andsenior independent non-executive director non-executive director None None None N A N R Grenville joined the Group Peter was appointed Alison joined the Group in David joined the Group Jim joined the Group in in August 2006 and became non-executive director September 2014.
He was Group chief executive in ofthe Company on was previously managing non-executive director previously finance director January 2007.
Taking the 11February 2016. director at Bupa, responsible ofthe Company and was and company secretary of Group private in 2007, Peterwill take over as for international development previously chairman of the JD Wetherspoon and has hethen led the Groups non-executive chairman markets, and has held Audit and Risk Committee previously worked for return to the public market following the Companys arange of senior posts before being appointed as David Lloyd Leisure in 2013 and became AGM on 27 April 2016, including chief operating deputy chairman.
David is adivision of Whitbread plc non-executive chairman subject to FCA approval.
officer of the UK private currently a non-executive and HP Bulmer Holdings on1 September 2014.
Peter is chairman of Royal hospitals business at Bupa director of Charles Taylor plc.
Jim is a graduate of Mail plc, and having ceased and a number of key plc, Kames Capital plc, Stirling University and he Grenville has almost 40 to be joint chief executive positions inBritish Airways.
Hermes Fund Managers qualified as a chartered years experience in retail of TUIAG, with effect from Limited and T R Property accountant in 1984. banking and the property In June 2012 Alison joined 9February 2016 is a Investment Trust plc.
Past directorships the board of Cable & Wireless member of TUI AG's chairs the audit committees have included Rightmove.
Communications plc as supervisory board.
Prior of Charles Taylor plc, co. uk, St Jamess Place Plc, anon-executive director, tothis, he held a variety Hermes Fund Managers Sainsburys Bank Plc and andbetween 2009 and ofsenior roles in the travel Limited and T R Property Realogy, the largest realtor 2013 Alison was chair of and leisure sector.
He was Investment Trust plc.
In addition to Opportunity Now, which formerly senior independent has extensive industry and being non-executive seeks to accelerate change non-executive director accounting experience.
chairman of Countrywide for women in the workplace.
ofRAC plc 20012005 David has had a plc, Grenville is currently Alison was also a nonandRentokil Initial plc distinguished career as chairman of Knightsbridge executive director of the 20052014.
He was also afinance director.
Most Student Housing Ltd, Foreign & Commonwealth a non-executive director recently he was finance Titlestone Ltd and Office FCO between 2005 ofDebenhams plc director for the general Bellpenny Ltd.
He is also and 2010, and in the 2011 20062009. insurance division of Aviva anon-executive director New Year Honours Alison and prior to that he held ofZoopla Property Group, was appointed a CMG for various other senior English National Ballet her services to the board financial roles at Aviva as andDCLG.
well as Prudential Group aqualified chartered and NatWest Markets.
David banker and holds an In January 2016, the is a chartered accountant MBAfrom Cranfield Boardalso announced and a graduate of City Schoolof Management.
theappointment of University Business School.
Alisonas an independent non-executive director to the Board of Tesco PLC with effect from 1 April 2016.
42 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chairman 1 Executive directors 2 Independent non-executive directors 6 Non-independent non-executive director 1 Cathy Turner Richard Adam Jane Lighting Rupert Gavin Caleb Kramer Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director None A N R A N R A N R N R Caleb Kramer joined the Cathy was appointed Richard was appointed Jane was appointed Rupert was appointed Group in May 2009 and non-executive director non-executive director of non-executive director of non-executive director of was appointed as a director.
ofthe Company and the Company in June 2014 the Company in June 2014. the Company in June 2014.
He is a managing director chairman of the Companys and chairman of the She has spent hercareer in He is chairman of the Board and portfolio manager Remuneration Committee Companys Audit and Risk broadcast media, including of Trustees of Historic Royal Europe at Oaktree Capital on 31 July 2013.
She Committee in August 2014. chief executive officer of Palaces, and he has a range Management UK LLP.
isalso a non-executive A chartered accountant Channel 5 Broadcasting for of board positions, at both Prior to joining Oaktree in director and chairman of qualifying with KPMG in five years until 2008.
She chairman and director level 2000, Caleb co-founded the remuneration committee 1982, Richard has nearly was formerly non-executive in a variety of businesses, Seneca Capital Partners LLC, of Aldermore PLC.
She is 30 years experience as a director atPaddy Power plc with a strong consumer bias.
a private equity investment an honorary fellow of finance director of private and asenior independent Most recently he was chief firm.
From 1994 to 1996, UNICEF UK and a member and listed businesses.
Since director at Trinity Mirror and executive officer of Odeon and UCI Cinemas Group Caleb was employed by of the board of the Royal April 2007 Richard has is currently a Trusteeof the between 2005 and 2014.
Archon Capital Partners, College of Art.
She been group finance director Royal Television Society.
He was previously atthe BBC aninvestment firm.
Prior hasextensive industry of Carillion plc and before where he was chairman to1994, Caleb was an experience working with that of Associated British and chief executive of BBC associate in mergers and Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Ports Holdings plc.
Richard Worldwide and also at BT acquisitions at Dillon Read Young and Towers Watson is also senior independent where he was managing and Co. Inc. and an analyst in her early career.
She non-executive director of director of theconsumer at Merrill Lynch and Co. Inc. subsequently joined Countryside Properties plc division, prior to which he Caleb received a BA degree Barclays PLC, where she where he chairs the audit wasatthe Dixons Stores ineconomics from the was a member of the group committee.
He was Group latterly as deputy University of Virginia.
executive committee with previously non-executive managing director.
responsibility for human director andchairman of resources, corporate the auditcommittee of affairs, strategy and brand SSLInternational plc.
During her Richard is a graduate of time with Barclays she was theUniversity of Reading.
also director of investor relations for four years and had extensive experience in remuneration in her many roles.
She was chief administrative officer of Lloyds Banking Group PLC.
Cathy is a graduate of the University of Lancaster.
Key to Committee membership: A Audit and Risk Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Chairman of Committee Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 43
