HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRSs New standards and interpretations not applied The Group and Company financial statements of Cranswick plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board The IASB and IFRIC have issued a number of new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
of Directors on 18 May 2015 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by Martin Davey and Mark Bottomley.
Cranswick plc is a public The Directors are in the process of assessing the impact on the Groups and Companys financial statements.
The standards not applied are as follows: limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle 1 July 2014 Union.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle 1 July 2014 with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and by the Company are set out in Note 2.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle 1 January 2016 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements amendment application of consolidation exemption 1 January 2016 statement and related notes.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements amendment 1 January 2016 IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities amendment 1 January 2016 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 2.
Accounting policies IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2017 Basis of preparation IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendment 1 January 2016 The financial statements of Cranswick plc, both consolidated and Company, have been prepared under IFRS as adopted by the European Union and in IAS 19 Employee Benefits amendment 1 January 2016 accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied throughout the year IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements amendment 1 January 2016 and the preceding year, is as follows: IAS 28 Investment in Associates amendment 1 January 2018 IAS 38 Intangible Assets amendment 1 January 2016 Basis of consolidation IAS 41 Agriculture amendment 1 January 2016 The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Cranswick plc and its subsidiaries.
The results of undertakings acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IASB IFRIC standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS ofaccounting.
as adopted by the European Union, the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement mechanism.
In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement restricts The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 March 2015.
Control is achieved when the Group the Groups discretion to early adopt standards.
The Group has not early adopted any of the above standards.
is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Revenue Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has: Revenue is recognised to the extent it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue and any associated costs can be power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : measured reliably.
Revenue on the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the exposure, or right, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and buyer on despatch and represents the value of sales to customers net of discounts, similar allowances and estimates of returns and excludes value the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three Sales related discounts and similar allowances comprise: elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control Long term discounts and rebates which are sales incentives to customers to encourage them to purchase increased volumes and are related to of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the statement of total volumes purchased and sales growth.
comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Short term promotional discounts which are directly related to promotions run by customers.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting For sales related discounts that must be earned, management make estimates related to customer performance, sales volume and agreed terms, policies.
All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated to determine total amounts earned and to be recorded in deductions from revenue.
Non-GAAP measures Adjusted Group operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Adjusted Group operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are defined as being before net IAS 41 valuation movement The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported on biological assets, impairment charges and other significant non-trading items being amortisation of acquired customer relationship intangibles in for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of the current year and release of contingent consideration in the prior period.
These additional non-GAAP measures of performance are included as the estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Directors believe that they provide a useful alternative measure for shareholders of the trading performance of the Group.
The reconciliation between Group operating profit and adjusted Group operating profit is shown on the face of the Group income statement.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, apart from those involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Taxation Share-based payments Note 24 measurement of share-based payments Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and Goodwill Note 11 measurement of the recoverable amount of cash-generating units containing goodwill laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences at the balance sheet date Provisions Note 21 judgements in relation to amounts provided between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Pensions Note 25 pension scheme actuarial assumptions Acquisitions Note 14 fair values on acquisition Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: Biological assets Note 15 assumptions in relation to mortality i except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a Trade receivable provisions Note 17 provision for impairment of trade receivables transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary New standards and interpretations applied differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The following accounting standards and interpretations became effective for the current reporting period: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IAS 28 revised Investment in Associates 1 January 2014 IAS 32 revised Financial Instruments: Presentation 1 January 2014 IAS 36 revised Impairment of Assets 1 January 2014 IAS 39 revised Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 1 January 2014 The application of these standards has not had a material effect on the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group.
84 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 85 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Investments Taxation continued Investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which the Accounting for leases temporary differences can be utilised: i Finance leases i except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or a Assets which are financed by leasing agreements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee finance leases are liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, in Property, plant and equipment or loss: and and the corresponding capital cost is shown as an obligation to the lessor in Borrowings.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement over the ii in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the term of the lease.
The interest element of the rental obligations is allocated to accounting it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remainder of the capital amount outstanding.
ii Operating leases Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, Leases, which are not finance leases, are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income taxes relating to items recognised over the term of the lease.
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity and not in the income statement.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Government grants and contributions UK Regional Development Grants and grants receivable from the European Union and DEFRA in respect of property, plant and equipment are credited Dividends to deferred income and released to the income statement over the relevant depreciation period.
Dividends receivable by the Company are recognised in the income statement if they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity paying the dividend, prior to the balance sheet date.
Dividends payable by the Company are recognised when declared and Inventories therefore final dividends proposed after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Dividends paid to Shareholders Inventories are stated at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow-moving are shown as a movement in equity rather than on the face of the income statement.
In the case of finished goods, cost comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of manufacturing fixed and variable overheads based on a normal level of activity.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration Biological assets transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
The Groups biological assets consist of pigs in the form of breeding sows classified as non-current assets and their progeny for processing within the Group and externally classified as current assets.
On initial recognition and at the balance sheet date biological assets have been measured at their Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair fair value less costs to sell, in line with IAS 41.
Gains and losses in relation to the fair value of biological assets are recognised in the income statement, value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss within cost of sales, in the period in which they arise.
or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Cash and cash equivalents Intangible assets Cash equivalents are defined as cash at bank and in hand including short term deposits with original maturity within three months.
For the purposes Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid for a business over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Goodwill is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Financial instruments i Debt instruments, including bank borrowings Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable Debt instruments are initially recognised at the fair value of net proceeds received after the deduction of issue costs.
Subsequently debt instruments amount is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
When an entity is disposed of, any goodwill associated with it is included in are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Issue costs are charged to the income statement over the term of the debt at the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal except that goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 March 2004 a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount under the effective interest method.
which was previously deducted from equity is not recycled through the income statement.
ii Derivative financial instruments Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill only if the fair value can be The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its cash flow risks associated measured reliably on initial recognition and the future economic benefits are expected to flow to the Group.
Customer relationships are amortised with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
evenly over their expected useful lives of five years, with amortisation charged through administration expenses in the income statement.
The fair value of forward contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with a similar maturity profile.
The fair Property, plant and equipment value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Where derivatives meet the hedging criteria under IAS 39 for cash flow hedges the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is charged on property, plant and equipment on the depreciable amount, being cost less the estimated determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, or the estimated statement.
Gains or losses recognised in comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged useful economic lives of their individual parts.
item affects the net profit or loss.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement.
Useful economic lives are principally as follows: For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to net Freehold buildings 50 years profit or loss for the period.
Short leasehold improvements Remainder of lease Plant and equipment 5-11 years Financial assets Loans and receivables Motor vehicles 4 years Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events or using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Capitalised borrowing costs Foreign currencies Borrowing costs incurred in financing the construction of qualifying assets such as property, plant and equipment are capitalised up to the date at In the accounts of each entity in the Group, individual transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the which the relevant asset is substantially complete.
Borrowing costs are calculated using the Groups weighted average cost of borrowing during the actual exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into period of capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
functional currency at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses on settlement of individual foreign currency transactions and movements on monetary assets and liabilities are dealt with in the income statement.
86 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 87
