Corporate governance Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Members of the Committee have continued to take an active role inoverseeing the business and have benefited from continued improvement inthe control and risk framework.
Dear shareholder I am pleased to report how the Committee The assurance framework required by the discharged its responsibilities during the Committee is provided by complementary 2015 financial year, setting out the key contributions from management reports, The Committees terms of reference tasksundertaken and major areas of activity.
internal and external audit reports, and are available at: Members of the Committee have continued riskmanagement and compliance reports.
to take an active role in overseeing the business However, as chairman of the Committee www.
co. uk investorand the risks and challenges it faces and Ihave also held meetings with the relations corporate-governance have benefited from continued improvement Companys internal Deloitte and external inthe control and risk framework following:  LLP auditors, the appointment of Deloitte as internal thechief financial officer, the chief risk and auditor in the first quarter of 2015: and compliance officer and senior members of theappointment of the Group chief risk the Group finance department, and other andcompliance officer during the second senior executives in which key issues relevant quarter of 2015. tothe Committees work were discussed.
I will be available at the Annual General Role and responsibilities Meeting to answer any questions about the The Committees role is to assist the Board in work of the Committee.
fulfilling its financial oversight responsibilities by: assessing the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and satisfying itself that any significant financial judgements made Richard Adam bymanagement are sound: Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups 25 February 2016 risk management systems and internal controls: and scrutinising the activities, performance, independence and effectiveness of theauditor.
48 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements How the Audit and RiskCommitteeworks At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered whether the 2015 annual Committee composition report was fair, balanced and understandable The membership of the Committee, together with appointment date, is set out below: and whether it provided the necessary Audit and Risk Committee information for the shareholders to assess Member member since the Groups performance, business model Richard Adam chairman 9 June 2014 and strategy.
The Committee took into account Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 its own knowledge of the Group, its strategy and performance in the year: internal Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 verification of the factual content within the David Watson 2 September 2013 document: comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the Group toensure There have been no changes to the The agendas for the four scheduled meetings consistency and overall balance: and the composition of the Committee during 2015 of the Committee during 2015 were organised detailed review by senior management and andtherefore the Committee remained in full around the Companys reporting schedule.
After careful review compliance with the UK Corporate Governance chairman of the Committee reports ateach andconsideration of all relevant information, Code the Code recommendation of a subsequent Board meeting on the business of the Committee was satisfied that, taken as minimum of three independent non-executive the Committee meeting and recommendations awhole, the annual report is fair, balanced directors throughout the year.
The main matters and understandable and has affirmed that that the Committee considered during the The Code requires at least one member of view to the full Board.
the Committee to have recent and relevant Prior to the publication of both the half and financial experience.
Two members of the Financial reporting and full-year results for the Group, the Committee Committee Richard Adam and David Watson  undertook a detailed assessment of the are considered by the Board to have Financial reporting appropriateness of the adoption by the competence in accounting and recent and The Board and the Committee have reviewed Group of the going concern basis in the relevant financial experience.
Both have this annual report, the half-year financial preparation of the financial statements.
professional qualifications with the Institute statements, as well as the going concern basis Forfurther information in respect of the of Chartered Accountants of England and of preparation of the Groups consolidated going concern, please refer to the directors Wales.
The biographies of each member financial statements at these points, in particular report on page 69. ofthe Committee are set out on pages 42 the underlying assumptions and sensitivities.
Prior to the publication of the full-year results We considered the presentation of the financial for 2015, the Committee undertook a detailed Attendance by members at the meetings statements and, in particular, the compliance assessment of the viability statement and isshown on page 45.
Meetings were with financial reporting and disclosure recommended to the Board that the directors heldatkey times within the reporting and requirements associated with the Groups can believe that they have a reasonable audit calendar and were also attended by premium listing.
In respect of each of these expectation that the Company will be able to thechieffinancial officer, the Group chief matters, the Committee reviewed papers continue in operation and meet its liabilities riskand compliance officer, the Group presented by management and discussed as they fall due over the three-year period financial controller, the company secretary critical judgements and estimates inherent oftheir assessment.
For the detailed viability and the Groups external auditor, within the conclusions, providing challenge statement, please refer to our risk section  LLP PwC.
The Committee also reviewed onpage 20 of the strategic report.
addition, internal risk management and the reporting from the external auditor, compliance representatives and other advisors, incorporating accounting and reporting including the Groups outsourced internal audit matters, internal control findings and their providers, Deloitte, were invited to attend.
management representation letter to ensure The Committee held regular private sessions that these matters had been considered and with both the external and internal auditors consistent conclusions had been reached.
which were not attended by management.
The Committee assesses whether suitable The Committees work accounting policies have been adopted and The Committee has an annual work plan, whether management has made appropriate developed from its terms of reference, with estimates and judgements.
The Committee standing items that the Committee considers also considered the Groups existing tax at each meeting in addition to any matters strategy and concluded that managements that arise during the year.
In addition to its current approach remained appropriate.
annual performance evaluation, undertaken as part of the wider external Board evaluation process, the Committee carried out a review of its terms of reference to align with best practice and developments in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 49 Corporate governance Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Financial reporting and  continued Financial reporting continued Accounting judgements and estimates In the year under review, the Committee considered the following significant matters, which include an element of judgement, in relation to the financial statements.
Matter Action the Committee has taken Professional indemnity Given the materiality of the professional indemnity provision, the Committee receives regular updates on the provisions status of the provision which includes the status of existing claims, including legal updates on those cases which are individually significant, and the number and nature ofnew claims arising.
At the year end, we reviewed the methodology and resultant professional indemnity provision prepared by management and compared the emerging pattern of settled claims to assess whether the methodology and assumptions remained appropriate.
Where management has updated its financial models to reflect the latest inputs and trends, and to accommodate aged claims where there is limited prior experience on which to statistically model outcome, as well as taking into account available information in respect of all open claims, we have provided robust challenge to any underlying assumptions adopted in respect of claim rates, claim liability rates, average loss per claim and provisions on discrete cases ofsignificance based on current legal advice.
The Committee concluded that the methodology and assumptions adopted were reasonable, but note that evaluating these potential liabilities is highly judgemental and in smaller populations of claims, including older, more complex cases, estimates can be significantly affected by theoutcome, good or bad, of a limited number of claims.
Accordingly additional sensitivity disclosures have been provided in note 3.
Impairment of goodwill Management provided the Committee with a paper supporting the carrying value of the goodwill and, where relevant, and intangibles with the brand names in each of the cash generating units of the Group.
Following the restructuring undertaken during anindefinite life the year, London business unit management conducted a review of brands and concluded an initial rationalisation of brand usage.
As a result, management had identified that a charge of 6.1 million was required to write off the brand names, which would cease usage entirely and impair those which would only be supported by a lower number of branches.
We reviewed the discounted cash flows and sensitivities prepared by management, discussing assumptions adopted and resultant levels of headroom.
Based on the work performed, the Committee concurred that: a prudent approach underpinned the conclusion of no impairment being required inrespect of goodwill: and the impairment charge of 6.1 million identified by management in respect of brand names was appropriate and, having arisen as a result of the strategic review, concluded aspart of the restructuring during the second half of the year, would be disclosed asanexceptional charge.
Acquisition accounting During 2015, the Group continued to acquire companies and standalone lettings books as part of its ongoing including assignment programme of growth of lettings activity.
In addition, acquisitions continued in other business units and some of fair values and the ofthese acquisitions have incorporated contingent consideration, rather than solely deferred consideration, treatment of contingent which is linked to future performance as well as the continued employment of the vendors.
consideration We reviewed a management paper summarising the acquisitions undertaken during the year, which noted that: these acquisitions all followed existing models and methodologies in relation to the fair valuation of intangible assets.
We were therefore satisfied with the fair value accounting approach and intangible asset valuations proposed by management: and a number of the acquisitions included contingent consideration that was linked to both thefuture performance of the business and the continued employment of the vendors.
Given the materiality of these costs, which require accounting as deemed remuneration, management proposed disclosure of the contingent consideration as anemployment cost, but isolated from underlying earnings for transparency and comparability between years.
We discussed the classification and disclosure proposed by management and concurred with the columnar presentation adopted on the face of the income statement.
Presentation As a result of the Group strategic restructuring during the year, material sums have been expended in a number anddisclosure of of areas which have been deemed as exceptional items.
exceptionalitems Management compiled a summary demonstrating the nature of the expenditure, and the rationale for presenting these items as exceptional.
We reviewed this summary, providing challenge to management to demonstrate the robust classification of items as exceptional, including consistency of the application of the term to the treatment of debits and credits.
Following discussion, including with the external auditor at the February Committee meeting, we were satisfied with the judgement exercised in the presentation and disclosure of exceptional items.
For more detail in respect of exceptional items see note 10.
50 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements The accounting treatment of all significant issues The Committee considered, discussed and and judgements was subject to review by the made decisions in relation to a range of risk external auditor.
For further information on the and internal control-related matters during critical accounting estimates and assumptions the course of the year, the most significant After careful review refer to the notes of the consolidated financial ofwhich are outlined below: statements on page 87.
For a discussion andconsideration of all reviewed the outputs of a review into the ofthe areas of particular audit focus by the Groups risk management practices and relevant information, the auditor, refer to pages 73 to 74 of the approved the revisions to the Groups risk independent auditors report.
Committee was satisfied management framework: Risk management and internal control reviewed, and recommended to the Board that, taken as a whole, for approval, changes to the Committees The Board recognises that the successful the annual report is terms of reference and calendar of duties: management of risk as part of our everyday activities is essential to support the achievement fair, balanced and reviewed proposals for the approval of the of our strategic objectives.
Through delegation Groups risk strategy, risk appetite and policy understandable and by the Board the Committee is responsible framework, for implementation in 2016: for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness hasaffirmed that view reviewed the quarterly Countrywide Group of the Groups risk management systems Risk Report from the Group Executive Risk andinternal control.
Operation of the Groups tothe full Board.
Committee on the top risks facing the riskmanagement framework, as detailed Group, the relative assessment of impact onpage18, which is designed to support and likelihood and actions underway consistent and effective management of risk approved the 2016 Group risk function plan, taken to deliver target risk ratings in a throughout the Group is overseen by an outlining the objectives and activities of the six-month horizon: oversight structure, as detailed on page 20, Group Risk function for the forthcoming year: which includes the Committee.
approved the strategic internal audit plan, monitored the risks and associated outlining those areas to be covered by the The Board has an ongoing process to identify, controls over the financial reporting work of internal audit during 20152017 evaluate and manage the significant risks faced processes, including the process by which and monitored the progress against the by the Group.
This was in place throughout the Groups financial statements are plan at each meeting.
This included updates the year and up to the date of the approval prepared for publication: on management actions relating to findings of the annual report.
This process is regularly and the closure of recommended actions.
reviewed reports from the external auditor reviewed by the Board and accords with The Committee also receives and approves on any issues identified during the course UKCorporate Governance Code guidance.
updates on changes to the plan for the of its work, including a report on control Management is responsible for the identification forthcoming year: weaknesses identified: and evaluation and management of significant risks applicable to its areas of the business approved the appointment of Deloitte LLP reviewed, and recommended for approval, together with the design, operation and as the Groups internal auditor using a full the Groups risk management disclosures monitoring of suitable controls to manage outsourced model, following the annual for inclusion within the annual report and risks to an acceptable level.
These risks are review of the effectiveness of the Groups accounts, including the consideration of assessed on a continual basis at business internal audit function and a period of the Groups viability statement as required unit leadership meetings and updated co-sourcing, under the direction of the under the Code: and accordingly in the Board risk report.
Group chief risk and compliance officer: reviewed arrangements by which employees received updates from the Group chief have access to a confidential whistle-blowing riskand compliance officer in relation hotline operated by an independent third totheGroups FCA regulated operations, party and received reports arising from including regulatory relationship matters thisactivity.
and outputs from the Financial Services business units internal audit committee: Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 51 Corporate governance Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Oversight of the external audit Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and are, subject to controls by management The Committees oversight of the external that have been agreed by the Committee auditor includes reviewing and approving A copy of our non-audit services tomonitor and maintain the objectivity theannual audit plan.
In reviewing the plan, policy is available on our website at: andindependence of the external auditor.
the Committee discusses and challenges Acopy of the non-audit services policy is theauditors assessment of materiality and www.
co. uk investoravailable on our website at www.
financial reporting risk areas most likely relations corporate-governance co. uk investor-relations corporate-governance, togive rise to material error.
providing details of prohibited, audit-related and PwC reported to the Board and confirmed permitted services.
The policy requires approval itsindependence in accordance with by the chief financial officer of any work ethicalstandards and that it had maintained undertaken by PwC and mandates Committee appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its approval, prior to the commencement of independence and objectivity.
PwC operates work, of all non-audit assignments with an a five-year rotation policy for audit partners individual fee above a fide minimis threshold for a listed entity and, as a result ofthis policy, of 50,000, or going beyond an aggregate following the publication of our2014 results annual spend of 100,000.
Chris Burns became the new Group audit The total of non-audit fees and audit fees paid partner in succession to Darryl Phillips.
Before to PwC during the year is set out in the table completely relinquishing his responsibilities below.
In order to maintain its independence in relation to the Groups audit, Darryl Phillips and objectivity, PwC undertook its standard attended the Companys AGM in April 2015. independence procedures in relation to these Chris Burns and members of his team attended engagements.
The Committee received a each of the Committees meetings during 2015. report at each meeting from management and PwC regarding the extent of non-audit services performed.
2015 2014 Matter 000 000 Audit-related assurance services 44 44 Accounting advisory services 11 Tax advisory services 9 60 Due diligence on acquisition targets 97 Review of risk and governance structure 19 Access to PwC inform 1 Non-audit fees 64 221 Audit fees excluding audit-related assurance services 606 556 52 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Amounts paid to PwC were reported to and The Competition and Markets Authority CMA Annual evaluation of considered by the Committee.
Non-audit issued The Statutory Audit Services for Large Committeeperformance fees incurred in 2015 represent 10% of Companies Market Investigation Mandatory As part of the overall Board evaluation process, therecurring base audit fee, falling below Use of Competitive Tender Processes and the Committee reviewed its performance for the70% cap set by the European Union Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 2015.
This evaluation considered areas such andwill remain subject to scrutiny and the Order in September 2014 applicable as the Committees processes and support, approval by the Committee.
to financial years beginning on or after its time management and composition, 1January 2015.
Our statement of compliance itseffectiveness in reviewing the work of We also continued the formal framework to with the provisions of the Order in the internal and external audit and in reviewing conduct our review of the effectiveness of current year is as follows: the internal control systems, the quality the external audit process and audit quality ofreporting and management of risk and and applied this to the completion of the 2015 the last competitive tender process for confirmed that the Committee continues Group audit cycle.
The framework takes the anauditor appointment was undertaken tobe highly effective in undertaking form of an annual questionnaire covering in2007 and resulted in the appointment itsresponsibilities.
allkey aspects of the audit, including the of PwC: effectiveness of contribution of divisional During the year, the Board appointed an the Company proposes that it will complete andGroup management to the audit process, independent agency, Lintstock, to conduct the next competitive tender process during and is completed by each member of the aformal externally facilitated evaluation 2017, which is deemed to be in the best Committee and by the chief financial officer.
ofthe performance of the Board and its interest of the shareholders in order to Feedback is also sought from other members committees, as noted in our Nomination allow full consideration of and preparation of the Group finance team, divisional committee report.
Since the initial phase for the tender process: management and the Group chief risk and ofthis process has concluded in such close compliance officer.
Based on responses to the statutory audit fee and the scope of proximity to the preparation of the annual the questionnaires, management produces the statutory audit have been approved report, full details of the priorities determined areport for detailed consideration by the between the Committee and the auditor: for theCommittee will be provided in our Committee.
The feedback from this process 2016 annual report.
the Committee has influenced the is considered by the Committee and is appointment of the successor to the provided to the auditor and to management, auditengagement partner and only it has with action plans developed accordingly concluded on his progression in the role andreviewed by the Committee.
In addition, during 20142015, permitting this without the Committee considers the findings of the recourse to a competitive tender process: Audit Quality Review teams report into the conduct of PwC audits generally.
only the Committee will initiate and supervise the planned competitive tender In its evaluation of the external audit function, process and make recommendations to the Committee concluded that it was satisfied the Board in respect of any subsequent with the work of PwC and that PwC continued auditor appointments: and to be effective, objective and independent.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended the Committee authorises, prior to the to the Board the reappointment of PwC and commencement of work, the provision for this to be put forward to shareholders ofnon-audit services by the incumbent atthe 2015 AGM.
At the AGM in 2015, auditor subject to a pre-approval of permitted 99.54% 2014: 97.24% of votes cast by non-audit services with an individual fee shareholders were in favour of reappointing above a fide minimis threshold of 50,000, PwC as auditor.
or going beyond an aggregate annual spend of 100,000 full details of the The Code requires that the external audit policy are available on our website at contract should be put out to tender at least www.
co. uk investor-relations every ten years.
As PwC was appointed as corporate-governance.
auditor to the Company in 2007, and has not been subject to a retender for the contract since then, the Committee intends to put the contract out to tender during 2017.
However, we may put the audit out to tender at any time before a regulatory retendering date ifwe were to conclude that this is in the Groups interest.
There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of external auditor and no auditor liability agreement hasbeen entered into.
