Corporate governance Corporate governance statement Introduction This corporate governance report intends to give shareholders a clear understanding ofCountrywides corporate governance arrangements and their operation within the Group during the year, including an analysis of the level of compliance with the principles of the UKCorporate Governance Code 'the Code' issued by the Financial Reporting Council inSeptember 2014.
The Code can be viewed at www.
Compliance with the 2014 Code Specific decisions reserved for the Board are summarised as follows: The directors have considered the contents Responsibility Specific actions during the year and requirements of the Code and note the Strategy and Approval of strategy Authorisation of Review of internal following instance of non-compliance: the direction and annualbudgets.
acquisition and control arrangements appointment of Grenville Turner as chairman disposal activity.
and affirmation on 1 September 2014, having held the position of risk management of chief executive officer immediately prior strategies.
tothat date, results in non-compliance with provision A.
3.1 of the Code that a chief Risk management Approval of financial Approval of authority Review of internal executive should not go on to be chairman of and accountability statements, other levels and financial control and risk the same company.
Additional counterbalances controls updates to the market and treasury policies.
management, have been identified in thereport of the and recommendations including health Nomination Committee on page 46.
Grenville did not meet the independence Governance Appointments to Terms of reference for Review of governance criteria set out in B.
1.1 of the Code on andremovals from and membership of arrangements.
appointment, following his appointment the Board.
thetest of independence is not appropriate in relation to the role of chairman.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are Effectiveness The corporate governance report includes separated, clearly defined and approved by the The Board and its Committees continue pages 44 to 53.
A copy of the division of responsibilities tobenefit from an appropriate balance of inrespect of the operation, and terms of between the roles of the chairman andthe expertise, experience, independence and reference, of the Remuneration Committee chief executive is available to view on the knowledge of the Group and its business isincluded within the separate directors corporate governance section of the sectors.
At 31 December 2015, the Board remuneration report.
comprised two executive and seven non-executive directors.
The role of the Board, decision The Board delegates matters to the three making and division of responsibilities BoardCommittees Audit and Risk, Nomination, The Nomination Committee considers andRemuneration, in line with their terms of The Board provides leadership to the Group theskill set and sector experience of the reference and the formal schedule of matters and is collectively responsible for the long term Board, appointments to the Board, director reserved for Board approval.
Further information success of the Company.
It sets the strategy development and succession planning.
on the work of these Committees during the andoversees its implementation, ensuring that Details of these activities and the process year can be found in each of their separate acceptable risks are taken and appropriate ofBoard evaluation and development are reports following this corporate governance governance structures and controls are in discussed in the Nomination Committee introduction and the specific terms of reference place.
Itensures that the right people and report on pages 46 to 47. for each of the Committees can be found on resources are in place for the Group to meet The Board has ten scheduled meetings thegovernance section of our website.
The its objectives, review management performance during the year: additional meetings are Board delegates the detailed implementation and deliver long term value to shareholders arranged if required.
The Board Committee of matters approved by the Board and the and other stakeholders.
meetings are scheduled around the regular day-to-day operational aspects of the In pursuit of these leadership objectives, Board meetings.
The directors attendance business tothe executive directors.
theBoard retains control of key decisions atthe scheduled Board meetings and Board andhas in place a formal schedule of matters Committee meetings is shown in the table specifically reserved for its approval which opposite.
Attendance is expressed as the can be found at www.
co. uk number of meetings that each director investor-relations corporate-governance.
attended out of the number they were The Board retention of decision making and eligible to attend as chairmen or Committee control of these key areas ensures effective members i. e. excluding attendance where stewardship and risk management by providing this was by invitation only.
integrated reporting, e. g. inrespect of strategic priorities and associated risk and mitigating governance controls.
44 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Director Date of appointment meetings meetings meetings meetings 2 Grenville Turner 19 February 2013 10 10 1 2 Alison Platt 1 September 2014 10 10 Jim Clarke 28 December 2012 10 10 1 Caleb Kramer 19 February 2013 7 10 2 David Watson 2 September 2013 10 10 4 4 1 2 4 4 Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 10 10 4 4 2 2 4 4 Richard Adam 9 June 2014 10 10 4 4 2 2 4 4 1 Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 9 10 3 4 2 2 3 4 1 Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014 9 10 2 2 4 4 Peter Long 11 February 2016 n a n a n a n a 1 C aleb Kramer was engaged in various overseas activities which meant that his attendance at Board meetings was intermittent.
Rupert Gavin and Jane Lighting were also absent from eachof the specific meetings above due to unexpected, unavoidable personal commitments.
2 Grenville Turner and David Watson were not present at the second Nomination Committee meeting as a result of the formation of a separate independent sub-committee.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance cover for its directors and officers.
The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for the benefit of its directors during the year: these provisions remain in force at the date of this report.
Principle risks associated with the officer and chief financial officer host or attend Groups business are summarised on pages 21 the majority of the events held, whilst key The Code notes that the Board should identify to 23 of the strategic report.
The Board has senior executives also participate in meetings in the annual report each non-executive director an Audit and RiskCommittee which monitors and activities with institutional shareholders.
that it considers to be independent.
Excluding and reports on the Groups risk management the chairman, each of the non-executive Shareholder relations are given high priority by systems.
The Audit and Risk Committee directors is considered to beindependent, the Board.
The prime means of communication alsoconsiders how theBoard should apply with the exception of Caleb Kramer as he with the majority of our shareholders is via corporate reporting and internal control holds the position of managing director at the interim and annual reports, supplemented principles and is responsible for maintaining Oaktree Capital Management UK LLP, a by interim trading updates, which aim to an appropriate relationship withthe Groups substantial shareholder of the Company.
As provide shareholders with a clear understanding auditor,  LLP.
stated above, Grenville Turner was not deemed of the Groups activities and results.
General Thereport of the Audit and Risk Committee to be independent prior tohis appointment presentations are given to both shareholders is set out on pages 48 to 53. as chairman on 1September 2014. and analysts following the publication of theinterim and annual results and at other The Code recommends that at least half the Remuneration appropriate points, e. g. Capital Markets Day Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise Details relating to the Companys policy on in October 2015, to share the strategic plans non-executive directors determined by the remuneration together with the level and and offer an opportunity to engage with the Board tobe independent.
Excluding the components of remuneration available to business unit managing directors and other chairman, there are six of a possible seven theCompanys directors are provided in senior executives.
non-executive directors determined to be theRemuneration Committees report independent and two executive directors, onpages 54 to 66.
Constructive use of the AGM and therefore the Board complies with recommendation B.
Similarly, the Shareholders have the opportunity to address Dialogue with shareholders composition of the three Board Committees questions to the chairman and the chairmen As chairman, I ensure that the views of complies in all respects with the independence of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and shareholders are communicated to the Board provisions of the Code.
Nomination Committees at the AGM, where as a whole and offer non-executive directors alldirectors will be in attendance.
All the opportunity to attend discussions with Accountability shareholders are encouraged to attend major shareholders.
David Watson, as senior theAGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge The Board remains committed to presenting independent director, attends a significant questions in advance of the AGM, or to a fair, balanced and understandable assessment number of these meetings to ensure that he contact the Board at any other time, are of the Groups position and prospects and develops a balanced understanding of any invited to do so by writing to the company ofthe importance of effective reporting, risk issues arising and can provide context back secretary at the registered address given management and internal control procedures.
to the Board Committees as he sits on all onpage 131.
Both the Audit and Risk Committee and the three Committees.
Board received drafts of the annual report to facilitate review and provide an opportunity We actively seek channels through which for challenge and discussion.
toengage with investors and during 2015 the Company undertook a wide variety The Board is responsible for determining Grenville Turner ofinvestor relations activities.
Institutional thenature and extent of the significant risks Chairman shareholders represent the largest group it is willing to take in achieving its strategic 25 February 2016 ofshareholders and much of the activity is focused on this group.
The chief executive Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 45
