Directors Report | Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 December 2015 We will ensure a healthy pipeline of talent is emerging for future Executive and Board roles.
Anita Frew Chairman of the Nomination Committee To identify and nominate Members and attendance Responsibilities candidatesto fill Board vacancies, eligibility at meetings The Committee is responsible for forthe approval of the Board, heldduringthe year ended nominating candidates for appointment to asandwhen openings arise 31December 2015 the Board for approval by the Board, and for succession planning It evaluates the To keep the organisations 1 Anita Frew balance of skills, knowledge, experience leadershipneeds, both Executive Chairman 2 2 and diversity on the Board, and identifies andNon-Executive, under review and nominates suitable candidates for toensure that Croda continues Alan Ferguson appointment to the Board Independent Non-Executive 4 4 tocompete effectively in the marketplace Key responsibilities 2 Martin Flower To review regularly the structure, size Former Chairman 3 3 To review annually the time required and composition including the skills, from a Non-Executive Director and Steve Foots knowledge, experience and diversity of the Chairman Group Chief Executive 4 4 the Board and make recommendations To make recommendations on for any changes to the Board Helena Ganczakowski succession planning for the Board Independent Non-Executive 4 4 To give full consideration to succession Detailed responsibilities are set out Nigel Turner planning for Directors and other senior intheCommittees terms of reference, Independent Non-Executive 4 4 Executives in the course of its work, which can be found at www.
com taking into account the challenges 3 Steve Williams andopportunities facing the Company Independent Non-Executive 3 4 and, consequently, what skills and 1 A nita Frew was appointed as a Non-Executive expertise the Board will need in future Director and Chairman Designate on 5 March 2015 She became Chairman on 19 September 2015 Where a Board vacancy is identified, 2 M artin Flower retired from the Board on toevaluate the balance of skills, 19 September 2015 knowledge, experience and diversity 3 S teve Williams was unable to attend the July Nomination Committee meeting due to family onthe Board and prepare a description commitments overseas of the role and capabilities required forthe respective appointment Croda International Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Report Kevin Gallagher, former President Dear fellow shareholder, PersonalCare, retired from the Business Looking ahead to 2016 Main activities and priorities in 2015 after more than 40 years service at Croda.
In addition to our routine business, Prior to his retirement, the Committee In 2015, the Committee completed the during the year the Committee will: spent a considerable amount of time search for a new Chairman to replace Continue to review the balance, discussing and planning for Kevins Martin Flower.
The Committee identified experience and skills of the Board succession.
The Committee approved the key skills and experience required Continue to monitor succession theappointment of Sandra Breene who ofthe new post-holder and agreed planning for the senior leadership took over the role as President Personal arolespecification.
The Committee team to ensure a healthy pipeline Care with effect from 1January 2016, retained anexternal search firm, Zygos, of talent is emerging for future having previously been President of which hasno other connection with the Executive and Board roles LifeSciences.
At the same time, Keith Group, toassist in identifying potential Laydentook responsibility for the candidatesfor nomination to the Board.
Ensure that the recent role LifeSciencesmarket sector in addition Following thesuccessful search, in changes onthe Executive totheChief Technology Officer role.
March2015 theCommittee recommended Committee are bedding my appointment.
The Committee regularly reviews the myappointment as Chairman Designate Boarddiversity policy.
In terms of gender with effect from 5March2015, taking diversity, with my appointment to the Board overas Chairman inSeptember2015.
25% of its members are female.
Regarding The Committee carried out a review all appointments to the Board, whether for ofthesize, structure and composition of Non-Executive or Executive positions, we theBoard for its current and futureneeds, consider carefully the benefits of greater to align with the Companys strategy.
diversity, including gender diversity, whilst TheCommittee will continue toreview ensuring that we fulfil our obligations to our thebalance, experience and skills shareholders torecruit the best person ontheBoard.
The executive search firms usedfor our recent appointments The Committee reviewed the time ofJezMaiden, Helena Ganczakowski commitment of the Non-Executive andmyself, are both signatories to the Directors and was also satisfied that all Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive theNon-Executives are able to commit the Search Firms.
The Committee ensures required time for the proper performance thatthe specification for any new Director of their duties and continue to fulfil the role is equally suited to both female and criteria of independence.
The Boards diversity One of the outputs from our 2014 Board policy can be found at www.
effectiveness review was for the Board I will be available at the AGM to respond andNomination Committee to allocate toany questions shareholders may raise moretime to discuss succession, onthe Committees activities.
particularly CEO and executive team succession.
The Committee spent time considering CEO succession, both in termsof emergency succession plans inthe event that the Board needed toappoint a temporary CEO due to unforeseen circumstances, and for Anita Frew possible successors now or in Chairman of the Nomination Committee the future.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
