Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report Overview The Board is required to report on the extent of its application of the principles and of its compliance with the provisions contained in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Your Board reviews each year the extent to which it is compliant with the Code and considers any changes which might be necessary in the light of developments in the principles and provisions of the Code and in the context of the needs of the Groups business.
We do not comply with the provisions of the Code in connection with non-executive representation on the Board, as we are doubtful that further extending non-executive participation at present would benefit our shareholders.
We consider it vital that the principle of a unitary Board of Directors, sharing responsibility for all facets of the Companys business, should not be undermined by reserving areas of decision making solely for non-executive Directors.
For this reason the matters which the Code recommends should be reserved for audit, nomination and remuneration committees are dealt with by the entire Board and it is intended to continue this practice.
In view of the fact that the Board comprises only six Directors it is also not considered necessary to split the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Executive remuneration is not directly related to performance, but a link is established by the fact that remuneration is not agreed upon until after the results for the year are known.
Changes should be made when they are appropriate and in the best interests of the Company, rather than for the sake of change itself.
This Company has a successful track record and whilst the Board will continue to keep under review any proposals which may improve the efficiency of its operations, the current structure has stood the Company in good stead over many years and should continue to do so in the future.
The Board The Group is controlled through the Companys Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable those objectives to be met.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year on both a formal and informal basis.
Comprehensive management information covering all aspects of the Groups business is supplied to the Board in a timely manner and in a form and quality which enables it to discharge its duties.
The Boards principal focus, in accordance with the formal schedule of matters referred to it for decision, is on the formation of strategy and the monitoring and control of operations and financial performance.
The performance of the Board is kept under constant review by the Chairman and therefore it is not considered necessary to undertake a more formal process of evaluation, either internally or externally.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Board procedures.
The Board has agreed a procedure for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board consults on a regular basis with the Groups external auditor and is charged with ensuring that its objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
The entire Board is responsible for the selection and approval of candidates for appointment to the Board.
Mr A E Bude was selected as a senior non-executive Director during the year based on his wide experience in property law and appointed to the Board on 25 November 2014.
The Board recognises the growing emphasis placed on criteria such as diversity and gender but continues to believe that Page 29 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued appointees should be selected primarily on the basis of a full, balanced range of criteria considered to be key to the management of the Group, without any forced emphasis.
All Directors retire and submit themselves for re-election to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each year.
During the year there were two full, formal board meetings attended by all Directors.
Directors and Directors Independence The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who acts in an executive capacity, one further executive Director and four non-executive Directors.
The names of the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on pages 20 and 21.
Mr R E Freshwater and Mr A M Freshwater are not independent by virtue of their membership of the Freshwater family.
The Board acknowledges that, in view of his length of service, Mr D Davis is technically not independent.
Mr A E Bude is considered by the board to meet the criteria of independence.
Financial Reporting The Board is responsible for all aspects of the Groups financial reporting obligations.
The key aspects of these obligations are as follows: Accounting and significant areas of judgement It is essential to the standard of the Groups financial reporting that appropriate accounting policies are adopted and applied on a consistent basis.
The Board discusses the impact of new and emerging accounting standards with the external auditor and keeps under careful review those areas of its accounting policies requiring subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
These areas, particularly in relation to fair value measurements of investment property and the assessment of tax liabilities, are set out in Note 1 u to the financial statements.
In order to conclude on these matters, the Board reviews the valuation reports and discusses these with its valuers and reviews and discusses the tax position of the Group with its advisers.
External auditor KPMG LLP, and its predecessor entities, has been the Groups statutory auditor since the Group in its current form was created by reverse takeover in 1959.
The Board keeps under careful review the independence of the auditor and the quality of its services to the Group and is satisfied that KPMG LLP provides a high quality, objective and cost effective service, from the sound base of its understanding of the Groups business.
Although the Code would now recommend the company re-tender the audit, under the recent EU Audit Directive and EU Regulation the Company will be required to appoint a different external auditor by 2020.
It is therefore not the current intention of the Board to put the external audit contract out to tender before then, but the position will be kept under regular review.
The Board has a policy of using KPMG LLP to provide non-audit services to the Group only in relation to matters closely associated with the audit and maintains close scrutiny of its non-audit services and fees in order to safeguard objectivity and independence.
Internal Controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Page 30 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business risks faced by the Group and that this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
This process is reviewed by the Board at regular intervals.
The Board has considered the benefits likely to arise from the appointment of an internal audit function and has concluded that this is not currently necessary having regard to other controls which operate within the Group.
Key elements of the Groups system of internal controls These are as follows: Control environment: The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all its operations.
The Group has a clear organisational structure for planning, executing and monitoring business operations in order to achieve the Groups objectives.
Lines of responsibility and delegation of authority are well defined.
Risk identification and evaluation: Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to the areas of the property market which impact its objectives.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal and external sources.
The Board considers the risk implications of business decisions including those affecting all major transactions.
Information and communication: Periodic strategic reviews are carried out which include the consideration of long term financial projections.
Financial performance is actively monitored at Board level.
Through these mechanisms group performance is monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and corrective actions agreed and implemented.
Control procedures: The Group has implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Measures include physical controls, segregation of duties, reviews by management and reviews by the Companys external auditors to the extent necessary to arrive at their audit opinion.
Monitoring and corrective action: The Board meets regularly, formally and informally, throughout the year to review the internal controls.
This process includes an annual review of the significant business risks and formal consideration of the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
In addition, the executive Directors and senior management staff have a close involvement in the day-to-day operations of the Group and as such the controls are subject to ongoing monitoring.
Investor Relations The Board values communication with private and institutional shareholders and with analysts.
The Annual General Meeting is used as the primary opportunity for the Board as a whole to meet private shareholders.
Other opportunities are taken as they arise during the year to discuss strategic and other issues with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Page 31 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board continues to support the concept of individual resolutions on separate issues at Annual General Meetings.
Details of proxy voting on each resolution are disclosed to the meeting after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
In accordance with the Code, notice of the Annual General Meeting and the Annual Report & Accounts will be sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Compliance Statement The Board considers the Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 March 2015 with the provisions of the Code with the exception of the following paragraphs: Paragraph Subject A.
3.1 Division of Chairman and CEO responsibilities A.
1.2 Non-executive directors and composition of the Board B.
3.1-2 Nomination committee and its responsibilities B.
6.1-3 Evaluation of the Board C. 3.1-8 Audit committee and its responsibilities D. 1.1: D. 2.1-2 Remuneration committee and its responsibilities Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 19, which also refers to the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
In addition, Note 16 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its financial risks, together with details of its financial instruments, hedging activities and exposures to credit, liquidity and market risks.
As shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows, the Group generated net cash from operating activities of 26.1 million during the year 2014 19.4 million.
Gearing, on the basis of gross debt to total assets, was 16.4% 2014 17.6%.
Net debt total loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents has increased to 270.5 million 2014 232.4 million, due principally to the acquisition of and additions to investment property.
The Group has undrawn committed facilities of 48.8 million at the balance sheet date 2014 35.0 million.
The Group has considerable financial resources and very low gearing and therefore, the Directors consider that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully in the current and foreseeable economic conditions.
Consequently, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
