CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A key benchmark is our compliance with the UK Corporate Chairmans introduction Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 Code which can be found at As Chairman my role is to lead the www.
I am pleased to report that we have complied with Board and ensure it delivers against all relevant provisions of the Code during the 2013 14 year, although its responsibilities.
A strong as a result of the changes which the Board has undergone we have governance framework enables the had to delay slightly our Board evaluation process.
The evaluation of Board to do so, helping to ensure it our Board is ongoing and we cover it in more detail later in this has clarity of purpose and a Corporate Governance report.
common understanding of the responsibilities and accountabilities The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the governance which it must keep in mind when of the Company.
Its strong governance framework as illustrated going about its business.
The below is supported by a combination of clear values, which are Board has two key responsibilities.
It must provide discussed elsewhere in this Report see pages 6 to 7, appropriate entrepreneurial leadership to the business while at the same time policy, and an environment of transparency and accountability.
Our governance framework helps Boards central role is to work alongside the executive team the Board to focus on the detailed activities which sit within those providing support, challenge, guidance and leadership.
I believe that two broad responsibilities.
As a Board we are committed to the Board of Dairy Crest is well balanced with a broad range of skills, delivering the best possible outcomes and we are conscious of diversity and experience.
the need to take account of and balance the interests of all of our stakeholders.
My key objective for the coming year is to maintain focus on ensuring that we have the right people and processes in place to Over the last twelve months we have undergone a period of change manage the transformation which Dairy Crest is undergoing within as a Board as Anthony Fry, our previous Chairman, was taken ill in an appropriate risk framework.
Anthonys illness coincided with a critical time in Dairy Crests development.
We were able as a Board to cope during Stephen Alexander Chairman that challenging period because we had in place an effective 20 May 2015 governance framework and a Board comprising Directors equipped with resilience and the breadth and depth of experience to cope with unexpected challenges and therefore able to continue to focus on delivering our strategy.
I am grateful to Richard Macdonald for his leadership as Acting Chairman during 2014 and for his continued support as Senior Independent Director.
Under Richards guidance Governance framework the Board was equipped to manage an unexpected succession The diagram below sets out the structure used to govern the from one Chairman to another and to ensure that process did not Company.
Through our governance structure we have established a disrupt the Boards work and the execution of the Companys clearly dened set of values which are communicated throughout strategy.
Our values are supported by a range of procedures and guidelines providing an appropriate roadmap to inform employees The smooth succession from one Chairman to another, albeit in behaviour.
Together with external governance codes they set an unexpected circumstances which none of us would have wanted to effective framework for the Groups standards and governance.
In have arisen, clearly demonstrates the importance of good order to prepare ourselves for the sale of the Dairies business we governance.
Our focus within our governance framework on have refocused our commercial structures into Dairies, Cheese and strategy, leadership and succession planning, amongst other Spreads and butters.
The HR, Finance and Legal teams remain in matters, shows, I believe, the benets of good corporate governance place alongside the Dairies and Cheese, Butter, Oils & Spreads and is a clear example of the effectiveness of the governance businesses.
framework we have in place.
As a Board, we recognise that appropriate planning and procedures are required not only for the efficient operation of the Board but for the business as a whole.
Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Group In my introduction to this, our Corporate Governance report, I have Board Audit CR sought to demonstrate how we have brought to life the principles of Committee Committee good governance.
Good governance is however, broader than good succession planning and having the right mix of skills and experience required to deal with unexpected events.
Amongst other Management Board matters it includes ensuring that the right tone is set at the top of our organisation in order to guide its behaviour and to ensure that our organisation lives by and demonstrates the right values.
Those values must in turn enable entrepreneurial and prudent management Demand HR Finance Legal Dairies Procurement Supply of the resources which you, our shareholders, have entrusted to us so that we can deliver long term success for Dairy Crest and all its stakeholders.
In this Report we demonstrate how we have addressed those broader principles of good governance through, amongst other things, ensuring that we have in place an effective internal framework of systems and controls which clearly define authority and accountability while at the same time enabling the appropriate management of risk.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 35 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board Chairman and Chief Executive: These roles are distinct and Role: The Board is collectively responsible for the entrepreneurial separate with clearly dened accountabilities set out for each which leadership and control of the Company against a framework of can be found on the Groups website Chairman Chief Executive prudent and effective controls enabling the assessment and Division of Responsibilities.
The Chairman has particular responsibility for the effectiveness of the Groups governance.
As custodian of the Groups strategic aims, accountable for ensuring the Boards effectiveness in discharging its vision and values it ensures that the necessary human, financial and responsibilities, safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder other resources necessary for the delivery of long term success of interests and promoting effective communication with shareholders.
the Group are in place and scrutinises and reviews managements Together with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the performance.
Each Director is aware of his her responsibilities, Company Secretary he sets the agenda for Board Meetings and individually and collectively, to promote the long term success of the directs the focus of the Board ensuring that adequate time is Company consistent with their statutory duties.
available for all agenda items.
In promoting a culture of openness among the Board and ensuring constructive relations between How it operates: The Boards agenda through the year is preExecutive and Non-executive Directors, he facilitates the effective planned with sufficient time allowed to enable the Board to react and contribution of all Directors.
To help ensure a proper dialogue with all respond to the changing landscape of the Groups business as the Directors the Chairman meets with Directors individually and talks to year progresses.
The Boards key accountabilities are: the Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors.
t Approval of the Groups long term objectives and business Senior Independent Director: Following Stephen Alexanders strategy appointment as Chairman, Richard Macdonald has reverted to his t Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets role as Senior Independent Director, in which he provides a t Maintaining an overview and control of the Groups operating and sounding board to the Chairman.
He also acts as a lightning rod financial performance should matters arise which Directors wish to discuss with someone t Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control other than the Chairman.
He is available to shareholders and other and risk management stakeholders in the Groups business as needed: and where t Oversight of the Companys governance and compliance required, he deputises for the Chairman.
framework, including key Group policies, for example Health and Safety and Business Conduct and considering regulatory changes Non-executive Directors: All Non-executive Directors including and developments the Chairman confirmed on appointment that they had sufficient time available to full their obligations as Directors and that they A formal schedule of matters reserved has been adopted by the would inform the Board should the position change.
Details of the Board and is available on the Groups website www.
Chairmans other significant professional commitments are included in his biography page 33.
The Board is satisfied that he continues Delegation of authority: the Board has delegated authority to five to have sufficient time available to full his obligations as a Director committees: and Chairman.
All significant commitments of Non-executive Directors were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and t Audit Committee the Board was informed of subsequent changes.
t Nomination Committee t Management Board As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors t Corporate Responsibility Committee scrutinise managements performance in meeting agreed goals and t Remuneration Committee objectives.
The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of performance.
The Chief Executives objectives, achievement of The individual reports of the Audit, Nomination, Corporate which inuences his remuneration, are agreed with the Responsibility and Remuneration Committees prefaced by an Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the introduction from the chairman of each can be found at pages 40 to Chairman.
Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by 62.
The Committees terms of reference, which to the extent the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors and required, comply with the Code, can be found on the Groups scrutinises the integrity of financial information as well as the website.
Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the robustness and defensibility of financial controls and systems of risk Management Board which under its terms of reference has management.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for delegated authority from the Board over operational decisions.
determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting Composition: At the date of this Report, the Board comprises six and recommending Directors for appointment and in succession Directors two Executive, a Non-executive Chairman who was planning.
The appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors independent on appointment and three independent Non-executive from the Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
Directors biographical details, experience, responsibilities and other commitments are set out at pages 32 to 33.
The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors.
Balance and Independence: With three independent NonWere Directors to have unresolved concerns about the running of executive Directors and a Chairman who was independent on the Company or a proposed action, they would be recorded in the appointment, all of whom are free of any relationship which could Board minutes.
The Non-executive Directors recognise the principle materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement, that if on resignation from the Board a Director has unresolved the composition of the Board satisfies the requirements of the Code.
concerns, that Director should provide a written statement to the The Board considers that the Directors demonstrate the suitable Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The concept that Nonbreadth of experience and backgrounds required to provide effective executive Directors are free to question any executive decision of the leadership for the Group.
Details of the Groups approach to diversity Company is enshrined in the engagement letter of each Nonare set out in the Report of the Nomination Committee at page 43. executive Director.
36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Information and Support: The Company Secretary advises the basis as and when required.
During the year the Board held a Chairman and the Board on all governance matters and ensures number of meetings associated with the sale of the Dairies business Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations in addition to those scheduled in its annual work plan.
It is inherent in complied with.
He ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely the nature of large corporate transactions that the Board is called manner with information in a form and of a quality which enables the upon to meet more frequently than normal, often at short or relatively Board to discharge its duties.
The Board, the Committees and all short notice, as it is required to deal with fast developing issues.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Accordingly, although all of the Directors made every effort to attend Secretary.
He provides the Board with regular reports on meetings which were required in addition to those scheduled in the governance issues.
Procedures exist for Directors to seek Boards annual work plan, it was not always possible for them all to independent professional advice at the Companys expense where accommodate all of those additional meetings.
unable to attend, they ensured that their input was given to the Chairman in advance.
Details of the Board and Committee meetings Effectiveness: Normally the Board has eight scheduled meetings held during the 2014 15 year and Directors attendance at those in its annual work plan.
It holds additional meetings on an ad hoc meetings is set out in the table below.
Board and main Committee meetings The Directors named in the table below held ofce during the year.
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Directors inthe year is shown in the table below.
The numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings Directors could have attended during 2014 15.
Board Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate Management scheduled in additional to Responsibility Board annual work those schedule plan in annual workplan Mr M Allen 8 8 2 2 3 3 31 40 i Mr T Atherton 8 8 2 2 3 3 34 40 ii Mr A Fry 0 4 0 1 0 1 iii Mr M Wilks 7 8 2 2 2 3 37 40 iv Mr S Alexander 8 8 2 2 4 4 3 3 1 1 Mr A Carr-Locke 7 8 1 2 4 4 9 9 1 1 v Ms S Farr 8 8 1 2 8 9 3 3 vi Mr R Macdonald 8 8 2 2 4 4 6 6 1 1 3 3 i Tom Atherton was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee on v Sue Farr was appointed Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 6 March 2015 Committee on 3 November 2014 and as a member of the Audit and ii Anthony Fry stepped down from the Board on 17 September 2014 Nomination Committees on 6 March 2015 iii Martyn Wilks stepped down from the Board and its Committees on which he vi Richard Macdonald was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration served on 31 March 2015 Committee on 3 November 2014 iv Stephen Alexander stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 17September 2014 and from the Audit Committee on 6 March 2015 following his appointment as Chairman of the Board and was appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 6 March 2015 In the last Annual Report we reported on the decision taken to adopt January 2015 at the Groups Davidstow site where we are building a hybrid approach to the Board effectiveness review in 2012 13 our new demineralised whey and GOS plants.
The 2012 13 review following the externally facilitated process undertaken in 2011 12 also concluded that following changes to the Boards composition in with Rathmullan.
In 2012 13 we used a combination of an initially May 2013 when Alastair Murray had stepped down from the Board internal process using questionnaires which was then followed up and Tom Atherton had been appointed Group Finance Director, Tom with individual interviews with the Directors and the Company had assimilated well into the Board quickly consolidating the Secretary conducted by IDDAS, a specialist mentoring, coaching relationships which he had begun to build with the Directors in his and effectiveness consultancy.
IDDAS focused on continuing with previous role as Director of Financial Control.
the themes of the previous effectiveness review, in particular ensuring that adequate progress had been made with the It had been intended that the annual appraisal of the Boards conclusions drawn from the first externally facilitated review.
IDDAS effectiveness required by provision B6 of the Code for the 2013 14 review concluded that the Board had made good progress in financial year would be undertaken in the spring of 2014.
However, in ensuring its visibility through more regular site visits and that light of Anthony Frys absence due to ill health and in recognition of relationships amongst the Board continued to work well with any the pivotal role played by the Chairman and the appraisal of his issues arising being quickly resolved in an open and constructive performance in the overall appraisal of the Boards effectiveness and manner.
The Board visited the Groups sites at Frome, Somerset performance, the Board decided to postpone the annual appraisal September 2013 and Chadwell Heath, London January 2014. of its performance pending Anthonys return to his duties as Building on the benets of greater visibility for the Board within the Chairman.
Unfortunately Anthony was unable to return to those business, the Board held its meetings in September 2014 and duties and in light of that and in order to enable Stephen Alexander Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 37 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED time to establish himself in the role of Chairman, it was decided that appointment and shall be eligible for election by the members.
The the next review of the Boards effectiveness should be conducted Articles require all Directors to be elected annually.
All Directors will later in 2015. stand for re-election at the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Having regard to the roles performed by each of the Directors, the individual input and contribution they make and their The decision has been taken to use an external facilitator to help the individual expertise and experience, the Board is satisfied that each Board and Stephen, as the new Chairman, to conduct its next candidates performance justifies nomination for re-election by review.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary are conducting a shareholders.
Service agreements of Executive Directors and a selection exercise to identify a range of possible organisations and template letter of appointment of Non-executive Directors are approaches for the effectiveness review.
Following a shortlisting published on the Companys website and are available for inspection process the Board will appoint an appropriate external facilitator.
We by any person at the Companys registered ofce during normal will report on the outcome of the review in full in the next Annual ofce hours and will also be available at the 2015 AGM for 15 Report and will post a summary report on the Companys website in minutes before and throughout the meeting.
Dialogue with shareholders The performance of Executive Directors in the context of their The Board believes in the importance of an on-going relationship with management and operational responsibilities was appraised in the its shareholders.
It fully supports the principles encouraging dialogue normal way.
As is the case with all management grade employees, between companies and their shareholders in the Code and the UK Executive Directors participate in the Groups performance and Stewardship Code.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director development review process.
Under that process, the Chairman have primary responsibility for investor relations.
They are supported appraises the performance of the Chief Executive and the Chief by the Groups Investor Relations team.
Amongst other matters, Executive appraises the performance of the Group Finance Director.
they organise presentations for analysts and institutional investors The outcome of reviews of performance of both Executive Directors and hold meetings with key institutional shareholders to discuss is scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee.
The outcome of the strategy, financial performance and investment activities immediately performance review of Executive Directors is set out in the Directors after the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements.
Slide Remuneration Report at page 52. presentations made to institutional shareholders are made available on the Companys website along with annual and interim reports, Induction and development: the Company Secretary ensures interim management statements, trading updates and company that Directors undergo a comprehensive induction programme on announcements.
Announcements are made as appropriate and appointment.
In addition to equipping Directors with sufciently required through a Regulatory Information Service.
detailed knowledge of the operations of the Groups business All the Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and necessary to enable them effectively to carry out their duties, the Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with induction programme is tailored to their experience, background and shareholders.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is particular areas of focus.
provided to the Board to ensure that all Directors have a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
The Conicts of interest: The Companies Act 2006 places a duty on Board receives feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group each Director to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have Finance Director on their meetings with shareholders, periodic a direct or indirect interest which conicts or may conict with the reports on investor relations and independent feedback from the interests of the Company.
That duty is in addition to the obligation Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
During the owed by Directors to the Company to disclose to the Board any year the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee Chairman held transaction or arrangement which gives rise or may give rise to a meetings with key investors to discuss, amongst other matters, the conict of interest under consideration by the Company.
Procedures Transformational Share Award for the Chief Executive which was are in place for Directors to disclose conicts or potential conicts of approved by shareholders in General Meeting in December 2014. interest.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles authorise the Directors, where appropriate, to authorise conicts or possible The notice of each AGM together with other related papers is conicts of interest between Directors and the Company.
Nondispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the executive Directors letters of appointment require Non-executives to meeting.
Ordinarily all Directors attend the AGM and are available to obtain the prior approval of the Board to appointments external to answer shareholder questions before, during and after the meeting.
the Company where those appointments might affect the time they The Chairman of the Board provides the meeting with an update on are able to devote to their role.
That requirement assists the Board to the progress and performance of the Group before the formal ensure no conict of interest may result from such appointments.
business of each AGM is addressed and a resolution is proposed When considering conicts or potential conicts of interest, the relating to the Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of the proxy conicted or potentially conicted Director is excluded from voting on each resolution are announced at the AGM including the participation in the Boards consideration of the conict or potential level of votes for and against resolutions and abstentions, and are conict situation.
From 2014 onwards we adopted a more formalised posted on the Companys website following the conclusion of the process where at the Boards April meeting, as part of the year-end meeting.
At the last AGM, consistent with corporate governance sign off process when Directors approve their emoluments best practice, voting was conducted on a poll and the result was statements, they confirm in writing that they had no present or published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Voting will anticipated conicts of interest.
That process was most recently again be conducted on a poll at this years AGM.
repeated at the Boards April 2015 meeting.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any Risk management and internal control of its subsidiaries during the year.
The Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It has overall Appointment and re-election: The Articles provide that the responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for Directors or the members, by ordinary resolution, may appoint a reviewing its effectiveness in which task it is assisted by the Audit Director either to ll a vacancy or as an additional director.
A Director Committee and the Group Internal Audit function.
It has delegated appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next AGM following 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 responsibility for management of day-to-day operational risks to the t Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all Management Board and responsibility for the detailed review of Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, internal control to the Audit Committee.
It has established a sound corrective action plans and progress against those plans system of risk management and internal control, the key t The operation of an integrated business planning process with formal procedures for highlighting on a monthly cycle financial components of which are set out below.
Group Internal Audit performance and risks to budgetary delivery together with supports the Board and Audit Committee in reviewing the associated opportunities to counteract or mitigate those risks to effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Through periodic performance reviews during the year, the Board has satisfied itself that its systems accord with the FRCs Guidance on Internal Control the Turnbull Fair balanced and understandable: Provision C. 1 of the Code Guidance and that satisfactory internal control procedures and requires the Directors to present a fair, balanced and understandable systems have been in place throughout the year in compliance with assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
When the the requirements of the Code.
A rolling audit programme conducted provision was first introduced to the Code, the Audit Committee by Group Internal Audit across the Group forms a key facet of the adopted a detailed process to enable the Board to report against Groups systems of internal control.
The Head of Group Internal this principle of the Code.
The resultant more structured approach Audit reports independently to the chairman of the Audit Committee see table below to the preparation of the Report and Accounts has on assurance matters.
It is not possible entirely to eliminate risk: been repeated in the production of this Report and Accounts which accordingly, although the systems are designed to manage risks the Board formally signed off at its meeting in May 2015. they cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
They provide reasonable assurance that January February March April May potential issues can be identied promptly and remedied Initial content Agree key messages Review and sign off Formal sign off appropriately.
The key components of the risk management and production Start completing and Conrmation from Consider level of internal control systems include: Prepare content not collating performance contributors as to assurance obtained dependent on year end related content, e. g. completeness of input.
over non-financial results, e. g. : business remuneration report.
Appropriate review of t Reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, all model, strategy, Consider new full content, for Where applicable Audit corporate governance regulations and consistency, Committee to formally significant strategic, financial and organisational risks sections.
consistency with key completeness and report to the Board on t A management structure which includes clear lines of Project Manager PM messages and KPIs.
messaging: review and how it has satisfied itself considers whether amend.
PM considers whether responsibility and documented delegations of authority with content collated is itself content collated is itself Sign-off by section Board to minute and collectively fair appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, and collectively FBU: owners.
consideration of FBU balanced and review and amend with Board paper understandable FBU : t #SJOH UPHFUIFS BMM incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Groups assets showing the process section owners to agree review and amend.
t The operation of comprehensive financial and strategic planning, that whole Annual Identify material events Report and Accounts forecasting and review processes performance issues ARA is FBU.
that will need to be t Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the t $POTJEFS GPSNBM TJHO reported off from section owners Head of Group Internal Audit, over the Groups control processes to the Board.
designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial reporting t The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the The Boards assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of nature of the Annual Report and Accounts is further assisted by, the Groups business, trading results, balance sheet and cash ow amongst other matters, the following: information with comparison against prior year and budget, all of which are reviewed by the Management Board and the Board The Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by senior management t Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget including with overall coordination by the Company Secretary & General analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for Counsel.
mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each An internal verication process is undertaken by the Internal Auditors key constituent part of the Group and key departments report to ensure factual accuracy.
performance year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel comprising the Management Board and other senior executives Comprehensive reviews of the draft Annual Report and Accounts t Formal documented financial controls and procedures including are undertaken by Management Board members, and in relation to specic procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of certain sections by the Companys external lawyers, by the External significant contracts Auditor and other advisors.
t Quarterly completion by each key constituent part of the Group of a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the The drafts of each relevant section are reviewed as they are approval of business unit management prepared through an iterative drafting process by the Chairmen of t Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed appropriate Committees of the Board and the final draft is reviewed by senior management, the Management Board and the Board by those Committees prior to consideration by the Board.
with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership and mitigation of significant risks to members of the Management At its May 2015 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisfied that Board and independent assurance over the appropriate the Annual Report and Accounts for financial year 2014 15, taken as implementation and operation of mitigating activities provided by a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the Board Group Internal Audit believes that the information contained therein provides the t Review by the Audit Committee of the Groups risk register information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys processes and Groups performance, business model and strategy.
t Review and approval of the audit plan for the Groups Internal Audit function together with progress against and revision of the plan as appropriate, throughout the year Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 39 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED t Going Concern Review: the Committee received managements Audit Committee report report on: procedures undertaken to support the going concern statement: the level of the Groups borrowing facilities and Being entirely independent of forthcoming deadlines for repayment or renegotiation of those management and enjoying a free facilities: the amount of headroom over borrowing facilities and the ranging remit on behalf of the adequacy of committed facilities to meet cash requirements in the Board, the Audit Committee plays a 2015 16 financial year: budgeted net debt and EBITDA and crucial role in the governance of headroom related to banking covenants.
The Committee was Dairy Crest.
It provides oversight of satisfied that the proposed going concern statement to be made the essential checks, balances and in the 2015 Annual Report and accounts is appropriate.
controls which are relied upon by t Accounting treatment for the Dairies operations: for both our shareholders in order to have the interim financial statements and the full year Group financial confidence that their interests are statements, the Committee reviewed with management and EY appropriately safeguarded.
The Committee provides assurance the accounting treatment to be adopted for the Dairies operations over the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, including the at both 30 September 2014 and 31 March 2015 in light of the interim and full year accounts: it enables shareholders and other conditional sale of the Dairies operations to Mller.
In considering stakeholders to have confidence that appropriate scrutiny has whether the Dairies business should be accounted for as held for been applied to the Companys and the Groups accounting sale under the requirements of IFRS 5 Non Current assets held policies and that key accounting issues have been approached in for sale and discontinued operations, the Committee considered an appropriate manner and a proper assessment of the whether the transaction was highly probable given the status of Company as a going concern has been undertaken by the regulatory approval process and ongoing advice obtained by management and the Board.
The Committee scrutinises the Board from legal advisers.
The Committee confirmed that the managements approach to judgmental issues and challenges accounting conclusion that Dairies should not be presented as management to ensure that judgements are approached in an held for sale in the 2015 Group financial statement should be unbiased manner with proper consideration of relevant facts.
disclosed as a key area of judgement.
TheCommittees work combined with assurance derived from t Annual impairment review: the Committee reviewed a internal and external auditors helps the Group to operate within a management report supporting the conclusion that no impairment framework of suitable controls enabling the risks necessary for of goodwill or property, plant and equipment should be the Groups growth and for the enhancement of shareholder recognised at 31 March 2015 albeit a reasonably possible change value to be properly controlled and mitigated.
The Board is in assumptions might lead to an impairment in the Dairies cash ultimately responsible for the identication, assessment and generating unit CGU.
Due to the low margins and challenging management of risk and the Committee assists it in the oversight market conditions associated with the Dairies business, the of risk in addition to its core duties related to financial oversight carrying value of property plant and equipment in the Dairies CGU and reporting.
The Committee reviewed with management and EY key assumptions used including, but not The Committee has clearly dened accountabilities which are set limited to, discount rates, cash inows from forecast property out in its terms of reference and has a work programme which disposals, profit margins, the potential timing and amount of encompasses regular, routine activity, planned proactive activity and disposable proceeds and the allocation of corporate costs.
In light when necessary, reactive activity.
Details of the Committees work of the conditional sale of the Dairies operations, the methodology programme undertaken during the year are set out in the Report applied in calculating an appropriate value in use for the Dairies below.
The Code encourages audit committees to report not just on CGU was reviewed and the Committee agreed that this should be the areas of work they have undertaken, but also on the significant disclosed as a key area of judgement applied in the 2015 Group issues they have considered during the year.
Following the period of financial statements.
significant change and major internal restructuring undertaken in t Revenue recognition and promotional activity: given the 2013 14, the Committee continued to focus on the integrity of judgemental nature of certain promotional accruals, the financial reporting following the changes undergone by the Groups Committee routinely reviews the level of promotional accruals at finance team and the appointment of Tom Atherton as Group the half year and the full year.
It considers the results of the interim Finance Director in 2013 14.
Change has been a consistent theme review and the audit conducted by EY which assessed the during the year with significant focus on the delivery of the Groups effectiveness of redemption rates used and the effectiveness of strategy to build market leading positions in branded and added controls.
In light of current regulatory focus on promotional activity, value markets, part of the implementation of which is the sale of the the Committee recommended to the Board that it conduct a Groups Dairies business which is subject to competition clearance review of the Groups commercial arrangements with key retail and its development of its demineralised whey and GOS plants.
The Boards review concluded there were no changes During the year, the Committee has focused on ensuring the required to the accounting approach used and that appropriate continued integrity of the Groups financial management and controls were in place.
reporting systems, its policies and its internal controls against this t Exceptional items: the Committee challenged the backdrop of change in order to ensure maintenance of the control appropriateness of the classication of items as exceptional and environment.
compliance with the Groups accounting policies when dealing with exceptional items.
The Committee was satisfied that significant matters relating to the 2015 Group financial exceptional items had been appropriately classied, treated statements: consistently and discussions were transparent.
The Committee discussed with management the key judgements t Capitalisation of assets: given the scale of the investment in the applied in the Groups financial statements and the impact of new demineralised whey and GOS facilities at Davidstow, the significant accounting items arising in the year.
The main items Committee considered Internal Audits findings from their review discussed were: performed in November 2014 of financial controls for actual 40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 expenditure against approved capital expenditure, including external auditor and the Companys process for monitoring compliance with the Groups purchasing policies and procedures.
compliance with laws and external regulations.
Final responsibility for t Fair balanced and understandable: at its meeting on 11 May financial reporting, compliance with laws and regulations and risk 2015, the Committee reviewed the process which had been management rests with the Board to which the Committee regularly followed for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts reports back.
see page 39 together with the content of the draft Annual Report and Accounts and considered whether the Code requirements for Meetings: the Committees core work is driven by a structured the presentation of a fair balanced and understandable Annual programme of activity settled at the start of the year between the Report and Accounts had been met.
The Committee challenged Committee Chairman, management and EY.
As well as its core management over the appropriateness of the degree of work, the Committee undertakes additional work in response to the confidence with which completion of the sale of the Dairies evolving audit landscape.
The following non-exhaustive list provides business was presented in the Strategic report section of the highlights of the Committees core and additional work undertaken Annual Report considering the accounting treatment applied to during the year: the sale, which is conditional on competition clearance, in the draft Accounts.
The Committee provided comment for consideration by 12 May 2014 t Received and considered EYs 2014 Audit Results Report the Board, subject to which, it considered the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
t Received managements review of changes to relevant accounting standards and policies affecting the draft Report and Accounts for the year ending 31 March 2014 including In light of the considerable focus which is rightly placed on the the legislative requirements for the inclusion in the Report objectivity and independence of the external auditor, we shall report and Accounts of a strategic report and the Groups approach to the preparation of the strategic report as well as more fully later in this Report on the Committees approach to the fair balanced and understandable requirement under the external audit tendering.
Finally, as Stephen Alexander replaced Code Anthony Fry during the year as Chairman of the Board, in order to t Reviewed its own performance and that of EY along with ensure continued compliance with the Code, Stephen stood down EYs objectivity and the independence and effectiveness of from the Committee.
In turn, Sue Farr joined the Committee and I EYs processes, and recommended to the Board EYs reappointment as the external auditor would like to take this opportunity formally to welcome her to the Committee.
t Received Group Internal Audits updates on pre-existing whistleblowing notications and any new notications as well as its report on financial and operational controls audits and Andrew Carr-Locke Chairman of the Audit Committee its progress against audit plan.
Approved Group Internal 20 May 2015 Audits work plan for the next financial year 15 September t Received Group Internal Audits report on financial and Membership: details of the members of the Committee at the date 2014 operational controls audits, pre-existing whistleblowing of this Report together with details of attendance at meetings are set notications and any new notications out at page 37.
Changes to membership of the committee during the t Considered EYs 2014 15 Audit Planning Report year are set out in the footnotes to the table on page 37.
The Board considers that the Chairman of the Committee has recent and t Received a report on the impact of changes to UK GAAP relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
and the introduction of new financial reporting standards on the Company Invitations to attend meetings: a standing invitation has been t Received an update on and reviewed the Groups IT security and cyber risks together with appropriate controls and made by the Committee to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief recommended changes to policy Executive and the Group Finance Director to attend the Committees meetings.
The Group Reporting Controller, Group Financial t Reviewed the outcome of the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Inspections, including in particular, the Controller, Head of Group Internal Audit and representatives of EY outcome of the Audit Quality Inspection of EY attend all meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
During the year the External and Internal Auditors attended all meetings and 3 November t Received Group Internal Audits report on financial and 2014 operational controls audits, pre-existing whistleblowing also met privately with the Committee.
notications and any new notications Role and responsibilities: consistent with the FRCs Guidance t Received managements analytical review of the results for the period ended 30 September 2014 and reviewed and on Audit Committees the Committees role and responsibilities are approved for recommendation to the Board draft Interim concerned with financial reporting, narrative reporting, Accounts for that period whistleblowing and fraud, internal controls and risk management t Received and considered EYs Interim Review Report for the systems, internal audit and external audit.
The Committees period ended 30 September 2014 scheduled activities are planned in accordance with its terms of 6 March 2015 t Received a report on and reviewed the Groups accounting reference, which have been approved by the Board.
for its Dairies business at 31 March 2015 Terms of reference: the Committee has documented terms of t Received and considered a report on the conduct of the annual impairment review of the Groups operations, reference which are approved by the Board.
They are reviewed at including, in particular, impairment testing of the Dairies least annually and during the year they were last reviewed at the assets Committees meeting in March 2015.
Its terms of reference comply t Received and considered EYs Audit Update Report with the Code and can be found on the Groups website.
t Received Group Internal Audits update on audits conducted Objectives: the Board has delegated authority to the Committee to in the period and progress with its audit plan, as well as whistleblowing notications received during the period and oversee and review the Groups financial reporting process, system an update on investigations into previous notications of internal control and management of business risks, the internal audit process, the external audit process and relationship with the Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 41 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Details of the non-audit work undertaken by EY during the year, 6 March 2015 t Received and considered an update on the regulatory which included acting as reporting accountant as part of the Dairies continued environment surrounding audit tenders and changes to that environment and considered a proposed approach for sale transaction and research and development related tax work, adoption by the Group to tendering the external audit are set out at Note 2 to the Accounts at page 86.
The Committee engagement was satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit fees were not material relative to the income of the external auditor t Received an update on and reviewed the Groups IT security and cyber risk rm as a whole.
It was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor was maintained throughout t Reviewed the Committees performance during the year theyear.
against its work plan satisfying itself that it had achieved its work plan as well as a number of additional matters which had arisen during the year and that it had satisfied its remit External auditor appointment: under its terms of reference, which it also reviewed and EY has been the Company and Groups external auditor since the decided that no changes were required to them Company oated in 1996.
The external audit appointment has not been tendered competitively since EYs appointment.
During the External auditor objectivity and independence: the objectivity prior year and the year covered by this Annual Report, the and independence of the external auditor is critical to the integrity of Committee has closely monitored regulatory developments the audit.
During the year the Committee reviewed the external concerning external audit tendering and has assessed the auditors own policies and procedures for safeguarding its objectivity implications of the transitional arrangements for the Competition and and independence.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Markets Authoritys order concerning audit contract tender Order Company with regard to the external auditors appointment.
Audit and the EU audit regulation Regulation, which comes into force in engagement partner rotation requirements have been routinely June 2016. observed.
The audit engagement partner provided her annual representation to the Committee as to the external auditors In light of EYs long association with the Company, EY and the independence and confirmed that EYs reward and remuneration Committee have agreed that EY will not participate in the next tender structure includes no incentives for her to cross sell non-audit exercise for the Companys external audit engagement.
During the services to audit clients.
2013 14 financial year, the Company introduced a policy requiring that the external audit engagement is tendered each 10 years, the The Committees assessment of EYs independence is underpinned first of which tendering exercises must be undertaken not later than by the Groups policy on the use of EY for the provision of non-audit the end of 2019.
In so doing, the Committee believes it will comply services.
The policy contains a presumption against the use of the with the provisions of the Order, the Regulation and the Code.
external auditor for non-audit services.
EY may only be engaged for the provision of non-audit services in contravention of that During the year the Committee decided that it would plan to presumption where those services are expressly permitted under undertake a tender process timed to enable the appointment of a the policy and where there is a demonstrable efficiency, audit new external auditor in readiness for the start of the 2017 18 financial enhancement or cost benefit resulting from the engagement of the year on 1 April 2017.
The Committee is keeping its approach to the external auditor.
Furthermore, before it may be engaged for the external auditor appointment and continued regulatory changes provision of such non-audit services, alternative providers must have under review.
It currently expects to make a final decision on an been considered and discounted.
audit tender by the end of 2015, by which time the Department for Business Innovation and Skills will have published the conclusion of Services which the external auditor is prohibited from providing to its consultation on the effects of the Regulation.
the Group include, amongst others: The Committee monitors the performance of the external auditor t Bookkeeping services and preparation of financial information throughout the year and formally concludes the assessment of its t The design, supply or implementation of financial information performance every May and makes a corresponding systems recommendation on the appointment of EY for the forthcoming t Appraisal or valuation services financial year to the Board.
Shareholders formally appoint the t Internal audit services external auditor at the AGM in July.
In light of the assessments and t Actuarial services review undertaken last May, the Board endorsed the Committees recommendation which was approved by shareholders in July 2014.
Fees paid to EY during the year are set out in the table below, At its meeting in May 2015, the Audit Committee considered the together with prior year comparisons: appropriateness of the re-appointment of EY as the Groups external auditor for the 2015 16 year.
In doing so it took account of the 2014 15 2013 14 Committees review of the external auditors independence and m m objectivity, the ratio of audit to non-audit fees and the effectiveness 0.4 0.4 Total audit fees of the audit process together with other relevant review processes conducted throughout the year.
The Committee was satisfied that it Non-audit fees should recommend to the Board the re-appointment of EY as the 0.1 0.1 Taxation services Companys and Groups external auditor.
0.5 Other non-audit services 0.6 0.1 Total non-audit fees 1.0 0.5 Total Fees 42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 executive Directors, or the Chairman, who was independent on Nomination Committee report appointment, has yet served six years in ofce.
Andrew Carr-Locke is the longest serving of the independent Non-executive Directors.
In I present to shareholders the report on the work of the Nomination August 2015 he will have served six years on the Board.
Committee during the 2014 15 financial year.
Details of the membership of the Committee and the attendance of members at During the year the Committees main focus was on the potential Committee meetings during the year are set out on page 37.
For need for succession to the position of Chairman of the Board, the majority of the year, in Anthony Frys absence, I chaired the should, as unfortunately proved to be the case, Anthony be unable Committee.
Stephen Alexander was appointed as Chairman of to return to the role.
The Committee also focused on any other the Committee in March 2015.
As I chaired the Committee during additional consequential changes required to be made to the most of the year on which we are reporting, I am reporting on the membership of the Board and its Committees.
In recruiting Stephen Committees work rather than Stephen.
Alexander to the Board in 2010 11 careful consideration had been given to future succession planning for the Chairmans role.
Keeping Sector experience Independence in mind the critical juncture in the development of the Groups business at which we found ourselves, it was clearly appropriate FMCG NonManufacturing independent given Stephens experience and suitability for the role that the Finance 33% 33% 33% Committee recommended to the Board his appointment as Chairman.
In order to ensure continued compliance with the Code and that the Boards Committees could continue to function properly, a number Agriculture Communications Independent of changes were also required to the Boards Committees.
During 17% Marketing 17% 67% the year following his appointment as Chairman of the Board, Stephen stood down from the Audit Committee and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
I was appointed Chairman of the Length of tenure Board gender Remuneration Committee and Sue Farr joined the Audit Committee 8 years 0-3 years Female and Nomination Committees and was appointed Chairman of the tenure 17% tenure 17% 17% Corporate Responsibility Committee from which role I stood down, although I remain a member of that Committee.
Finally, the Committee recommended to the Board that Stephen Alexander become Chairman of the Nomination Committee, which recommendation was endorsed by the Board although in the event 4-7 years Male tenure 66% 83% that the Nomination Committee is in the future required to deal with the appointment of Stephens successor, in compliance with the The Committee is responsible for overseeing the selection and Code, I would lead that process as Senior Independent Director.
The appointment of Directors and making its recommendations to the Committee and the Board have considered whether, in light of Board.
In conjunction with the Chairman it also evaluates the Martyn Wilks departure from the Board, an additional Executive commitments of individual Directors and ensures that the Director is required to be appointed to the Board.
The Committees membership of the Board and its principal committees are refreshed recommendation, accepted and endorsed by the Board, was that periodically.
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the for the time being, given the changes which the Company is Company that Executive Directors take up opportunities to act as undergoing, no additional appointment should be made although it Non-executive Directors in other appropriate companies.
Executive will be keeping that recommendation under review.
Directors are permitted to serve in a non-executive capacity on the board of one other listed company and to retain any fees received.
The Group has not adopted targets for female representation Non-executive Directors may serve as directors, executive or amongst the Directors.
It interprets diversity in its widest sense and otherwise, on the boards of other companies or appropriate aims to achieve the best possible leadership for the Group by organisations.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment ensuring an appropriate mix of skills, backgrounds, gender, require them to seek prior approval from the Board before accepting experience and knowledge amongst its Directors, senior managers any additional commitment that might affect the time that they are and other employees.
The Committee considers that first and able to devote to their role as a Non-executive Director of the foremost, appointments must be made based on an objective Company.
The Board has the opportunity to satisfy itself that assessment of who is the best person to ll a role, with candidates Non-executive Directors other commitments allow them to devote drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds.
The Group will continue adequate time to their commitments to the Company.
The Board to operate policies giving equal opportunities to all, irrespective of approved all new appointments of Directors during the year and is age, gender, marital status, disability, nationality, colour, ethnic satisfied that all Directors continue to have sufficient time to devote origin, sexual orientation or religious afliation.
themselves properly to their duties for the Company.
Richard Macdonald Senior Independent Director The Committee has not been required during the year to assist the 20 May 2015 Board with the recruitment of a Director.
Were it to be so required, it would ensure that the recruitment exercise was conducted against a documented brief setting out the requirements of the role and the skills and experience required of the person to ll it.
In the past, the Company has engaged the services of external search consultancies and it is anticipated, in the ordinary course, that it would continue to do so in the future.
Were it not to do so, open advertising would be used as an alternative.
None of the NonDairy Crest Annual Report 2015 43 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Management Board Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Groups I am delighted to present to executive team.
Details of the members of the Management Board shareholders my first report can be found at pages 32 to 34.
The Management Board is as Chairman of the Corporate responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Groups Responsibility Committee which strategic direction and monitoring the performance of the business can be found on pages 23 to 27. and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis, as well as the As referred to in the report of the day-to-day operations of the Groups business, its performance Nomination Committee, Richard against forecasts and budgets and profitability.
The Management Macdonald chaired the Committee Board normally meets weekly.
during the year until November.
I thank Richard for his leadership Information included in the Directors report of the Committee during which time the Companys corporate Certain information fullling the requirements of the Corporate responsibility programme has gone from strength to strength as Governance Report can be found in the Directors Report at pages demonstrated by the Groups continued success in the reduction 63 to 65 under the headings Substantial shareholdings, Rights and of accidents in the workplace, its reduced water usage and the obligations attaching to shares, Articles of association and launch of healthier innovative products.
It was with great pride Purchase of own shares and is incorporated into this Corporate that we reported last year that the Group had achieved four and Governance Report by reference.
a half stars in the 2014 BITC corporate responsibility audit, the highest rating of any participating member company, which built By order of the Board on the achievement of a BITC Platinum Big Tick in 2013.
It is with equal pride that I am able to report to you that in the 2015 Robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel BITC corporate responsibility audit we have achieved the highest 20 May 2015 possible rating of five stars.
I was also delighted that in 2014 Dairy Crest was the recipient of the prestigious IGD Presidents Cup, an award that recognises, in part, the work that the Company has made to helping the organisation achieve its societal objectives.
The Committee oversees the Groups corporate responsibility programme and ensures that key social, ethical and environmental issues are assessed and prioritised including reviewing the Companys 40 corporate responsibility pledges.
In addition to me as Chairman, the Committee comprises Richard Macdonald, Mark Allen, Tom Atherton, Robin Miller, Robert Willock and Adam Braithwaite.
During the year the Group continued to benefit from working in collaboration with other businesses to deliver larger scale benets to society.
Examples have included our continued support of the IGDs Feeding Britains Future initiative through which employees have helped over 140 young people nd employment since 2013.
Through our community partnership with Marks & Spencer we have also been able to offer over 80 young people 80 hours of work experience.
Aware that without dairy farmers we would not have a business we are also proud of the work we have done through the Princes Countryside Fund and more specically, the Princes Dairy Initiative, a programme that helps the most vulnerable dairy farms become more economically and environmentally sustainable.
Overall the Committee views corporate responsibility as an opportunity to improve and add further value to the business.
Accordingly, good corporate responsibility is in the interests of all of Dairy Crests stakeholders.
We believe that the Groups approach helps to spark creative, innovative ideas which contribute to the business better understanding of its consumers and will lead to greater success.
Sue Farr Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 20 May 2015 44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
