CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS In accordance with the Listing Rules executive directors, five independent The Chief Executive ofthe UK Listing Authority, the non-executive directors and one The Chief Executive is responsible Company confirms that throughout the non-independent non-executive director.
forthe management of the Groups year ended 29August 2015 and as at the business and for implementing the date ofthisannual report, it was The Chairman Groups strategic aims.
He also chairs compliant withall the relevant provisions The Chairman is responsible for the the Executive Committee and ensures as set outin the September 2012 UK effective leadership, operation and that it achieves the delegated Corporate Governance Code the governance of the board and its objectives in accordance withthe Code, copiesof which canbe committees.
He ensures that all Companys business policies.
Theroles downloaded from the directorscontribute effectively in the and responsibilities of the members of FinancialReporting Council development and implementation of the the Executive Committee are detailed website www.
Companys strategy whilst ensuring that opposite.
The Chief Executive also the nature and extent of the significant leads an annual strategy event to focus LEADERSHIP risks the Company is willing to embrace on the Groups overall performance and The board inthe implementation of its strategy the development ofthe The board of Debenhams is collectively aredetermined and challenged.
responsible for the long-term success of Chairman is also responsible for the the Company by directing and supervising induction of new directors and their Michael Sharp has been our Chief the affairs of the Company and is continuing development, board Executive since September 2011. accountable to its shareholders for the evaluations and succession planning.
Groups strategic aims, risk management TheChairman holds regular meetings The Chief Financial Officer and performance.
No individual or small with the non-executive directors without The Chief Financial Officer is responsible group of individuals dominates the the executive directors being present for the financial reportingand boards decision-making process.
andhas regular contact with all management of the Group.
tothe finance, audit, tax and treasury Biographical details of the board of teams, the role is also responsible for directors are on pages 42 to 43.
The board Nigel Northridge has been our property, space planning, legal and currently has ten members: theChairman, Chairman since April 2010 and secretariat and investor relations.
six independent non-executive directors isalsothe Chairman of the and three executive directors.
Matt Smith has been our Chief the Annual General Meeting, the board Financial Officer since January 2015. willconsist of the Chairman, three Chief Group Senior Independent Chief Financial Trading Independent non-executive Chairman Executive Officer Director Director directors Nigel Northridge Michael Sharp Matt Smith Suzanne Harlow Dennis Millard Terry Duddy Peter Fitzgerald Stephen Ingham Martina King Mark Rolfe Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 44 Governance 40-85 Executive Committee Michael Sharp Chief Executive Matt Suzanne Ross Richard Mike Peter Nikki Smith Harlow Clemmow Cristofoli Goring Swann Zamblera Chief Group Trading E-Commerce Marketing Retail Operations HR Director Financial Director Director Director Director Director Officer Financial Design, UK and Product UK and Systems, HR, pay and reporting and buying, International marketing, international imports and reward, management, merchandising, online sales and advertising, PR, store exports, learning and tax, treasury, supply chain, development visual and creative, operations distribution development, internal audit, sourcing and and customer customer strategy andstore and logistics.
recruitment, property, space external relations.
and secretariat and investor relations.
The Group Trading Director dealt with by this director.
The Senior Non-executive directors The Group Trading Director leads the Independent Director also serves as As detailed in their biographies on pages buying and merchandising activities anintermediary for the other directors 42and 43 our non-executive directors have and is responsible for the development as necessary and acts as a sounding a diverse range of skills, experience and of the Debenhams brand and product board for the Chairman.
In addition, backgrounds and provide constructive strategy and the external business the role also has responsibility for challenge within the boardroom.
They are initiatives with the overriding objective leading the annual appraisal of the well informed about the Company and to deliver a compelling customer Chairmans performance.
have a strong command of the issues proposition.
The role is also relevant to the business.
As at 29 August responsible for the sourcing Dennis Millard has been our Senior 2015, all the non-executive directors andsupplychain functions.
Independent Director since May 2010. wereconsidered by the board to be As a result of Dennis Millards length independent and free from any Suzanne Harlow has been our Group oftenure, he is no longer considered relationship or circumstances that could Trading Director since December 2013. tobe independent and the board affect their independent judgement.
therefore proposes that Terry Duddy The Senior Independent Director replace himas Senior Independent The independence of non-executive Any concerns that shareholders Director effective from the date of the directors who have served more than mayhave which are not appropriate forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
sixyears issubject to rigorous review.
fordiscussion through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer will be The table below details the length of service of our Chairman and for each of our non-executive directors: Length of service as a non-executive Director Date of appointment director at 29 August 2015 Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 9 years 4 months Martina King 1 August 2009 6 years 1 month Nigel Northridge 1 January 2010 5 years 8 months Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 4 years 11 months Peter Fitzgerald 4 October 2012 2 years 11 months Stephen Ingham 8 January 2013 2 years 8 months Terry Duddy 10 April 2015 4 months Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Company Secretary Paul Eardley has been our Company belowand opposite demonstrate The Company Secretary plays a leading Secretary since October 2007. thegender splitat board level, role in the good governance of the withinthe ExecutiveCommittee, Company by supporting the Chairman Board diversity seniormanagement and for the and helping the board and its committees The Companys diversity policy was workforceasa whole.
Together with the adopted by the board in FY2014.
It is Chairman, the Company Secretary keeps theresponsibility of the Nomination Time commitment under review the governance processes Committee to implement and monitor All directors are aware of the need adopted by the Company to ensure that the objectives set out in the policy and toallocate sufficient time to the they remain fit for purpose and considers to review the policy annually last Company in order to discharge their any improvements that could strengthen reviewed September 2015. responsibilities effectively.
The board the governance of the Company.
All Debenhams believesthat diversity, monitors the extent of their external directors have access to the services of in all its aspects, is important in order interests and any conflicts on an theCompany Secretary and may take for a board to operative effectively.
The letters of independent professional advice at The main objectives of the policy appointment for non-executive theCompanys expense in conducting aretoensure that the board is well directors set out the time commitment their duties.
balanced and appropriate for the expected to perform their duties needs of the business and that the effectively.
The time required by The Company Secretary acts as board comprises directors who directors will fluctuate depending on secretary to the board and each aresufficiently experienced and the demands of the business and any ofitscommittees.
independent in character and other events but the expected number judgement.
Following Sophie Turner of days required for each non-executive The appointment or removal of the Laings departure the Nomination director is ten days per annum.
Company Secretary is a matter for Committee will be mindful of the theboard as a whole.
diversity policy when considering future appointments.
The charts Board gender diversity Executive Committee gender diversity Senior managers gender diversity Male 80% Male 75% Male 53% Female 20% Female 25% Female 47% Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 46 Governance 40-85 All employees gender diversity arranged.
One to one meetings A register of related parties is also arealso held with members of the maintained by the Company Secretary.
Executive Committee and other seniorexecutives in the business as Indemnification of directors appropriate.
The Company Secretary Qualifying third party indemnity assists in the induction of new directors provisions as defined in section 234 and their ongoing development as ofthe Companies Act 2006 are in required and also undertakes a review forcefor the benefit of the directors with new directors following induction who held office during the year.
The to consider any new initiatives which Company also provides directors would improve the induction process.
andofficers liability insurance for itsdirectors and other officers.
Directors conflicts of interest The Nomination Committee annually Board meetings reviews and considers the interests and The board held five meetings during Male 24% other external appointments held by FY2015 which were fully attended by Female 76% themembers of the board.
All conflicts allthe board members.
In addition declared were approved at its meeting tothedirectors, the board meetings inSeptember 2015.
The directors have wereattended by the members of acontinuing duty to inform the board theExecutive Committee and the Induction and ongoing development ofanypotential conflicts immediately so Company Secretary.
Details of the On appointment, a director is provided that such conflicts may be considered principal items discussed at each with an induction programme which is and, if authorised, included within the meeting are shown in the table below.
tailored to his or her experience of register ofconflicts.
We recognise listed company responsibilities and thatthenon-executive directors have The presentation of timely, high based on his or her knowledge of the otherbusiness interests outside of the qualityinformation to the board and its retail sector.
The induction includes Companyand that other directorships committees is essential to ensure that theprovision of relevant current and bring significant benefits to the board.
All there is thorough consideration of the historical information about the existing directorships are detailed within issues prior to and informed debate Company together with applicable the director biographies on pages 42 and andchallenge at all meetings.
Non-executive directors are required to information is published in advance arranged with advisors and visits to obtain the approval of the Chairman before viaasecure web portal.
If directors operations around the Group are accepting any further appointments.
arenot able to attend meetings due Board activity throughout the year September 2014 October 2014 December 2014 January 2015 April 2015 June 2015 Visit to Danish Presentation on Met with Approved the Approved interim Approved the June operation Magasin the supply chain shareholders at the January Trading results and Trading Statement du Nord and buying and Annual General Statement resolved to pay merchandising Meeting interim dividend roadmap Approved full year Presentation on the Reviewed budget results, report and strategic priorities accounts and recommended the final dividend Approved the Update Presentation on corporate risk map presentation health and safety onthesupply chain Reviewed Annual Strategy theannual Meeting performance evaluation of the board and its committees Approved the schedule of matters reserved for theboard Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED toconflicts in their schedule, they review key Group risks and ensures that the risk The members together with the role the papers for consideration at that management framework and profile and activities of each board committee meeting and relay any comments to supports the business strategy.
In can be found at: the Chairman in advance of the meeting accordance with the Code, the formal Audit Committee Pages 52 to 55 where possible, which are then passed schedule ofmatters reserved for the on to the other directors.
The Company board is reviewed annually, usually Nomination Secretary ensures relevant information attheOctober board meeting.
Committee Pages 50 and 51 flows within the board, its committees Remuneration and tosenior management and records Board committees Committee Pages 56 to 81 all matters discussed within the minutes The board committees are the ofthe meeting.
Each board meeting Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Performance evaluation reviews presentations from the Committees.
The terms of reference In line with best practice, we conduct executive directors and from the other ofeach committee which are reviewed external evaluations of the board, members of the Executive Committee.
annually can be found on our website its committees and each individual Presentations are also requested by at http: debenhamsplc.
In director at least once every three years.
the board on an ad hoc basis from the addition there is a sustainability As no material concerns were raised trading divisions and other business committee which is a committee of the during the FY2014 external evaluation areas, including investor relations, board and is chaired by Martina King.
the board determined that the treasury, taxation, health and safety Chairman should carry out an internal andhuman resources.
In addition, the evaluation in FY2015.
This years board receives regular updates on the evaluation confirmed that all of the Investor relations calendar October 2014 November 2014 December 2014 January 2015 April 2015 June 2015 July 2015 August 2015 Full year results US shareholder roadshow Annual General Meeting Trading update First half results Investor meetings CFO Broker introductions UK investor meetings UK shareholder roadshow European shareholder UK investor meetings UK shareholder roadshow Trading update roadshow Fixed income investor roadshow Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 48 Governance 40-85 directors, the board and its committees Shareholders by geography December 2014 AGM key highlights continue to perform effectively.
However, the Chairman is constantly Full director attendance evaluating the performance and effectiveness of the board and its Between 708,648,809 and committees.
The performance review 716,358,151 votes were cast of the Chairman was conducted by the for eachresolution Senior Independent Director who All directors retired and were consulted with all board members.
elected re-elected to the board, receiving on average 98.71% of SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL votescast in favour Information which the directors arerequired to disclose pursuant The resolution to approve the tosection 992 of the Companies directors remuneration policy Act2006can be found on pages fortheyear ended 30 August 2014 83to84 ofthedirectors report.
UK 52% waspassed with 98.65% of votes USA 23% cast infavour SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT UAE 8% The resolution to approve the The board is responsible for ensuring Luxembourg 3% directors remuneration report that the Company maintains a Norway 3% forthe year ended 30 August 2014 satisfactory dialogue with Other 11% was passed with 99.79% of votes shareholders.
The Chairman and the castin favour Senior Independent Director are always available to major shareholders.
Formal trading updates are given to the market on four occasions during The key elements of the Groups the year.
Following each of these investor relations calendar in 2015 announcements, conference calls are areshown in the table below.
held with shareholders and analysts and afterthefull year and interim The major shareholders of the resultsapresentation is made to the Company are listed on page 83 shareholders and analysts.
research is circulated to the board.
Aprogramme of meetings and The geographical analysis of conference calls is also organised at shareholders is shown in the appropriate times during the year chartabove.
atwhich the Chief Executive and ChiefFinancial Officer comment on Company performance and respond toany issues raised by investors.
In addition Debenhams arranges visits to its stores for analysts and shareholders and holds regular capital markets days in order to explain aspects of the business performance and strategy.
October 2014 November 2014 December 2014 January 2015 April 2015 June 2015 July 2015 August 2015 Full year results US shareholder roadshow Annual General Meeting Trading update First half results Investor meetings CFO Broker introductions UK investor meetings UK shareholder roadshow European shareholder UK investor meetings UK shareholder roadshow Trading update roadshow Fixed income investor roadshow Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49
