AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Audit Committee the Committee, Iampleased to present its report for the financial year ended 29 August 2015.
Thereport sets out the remit ofthe Committee, its areas of focus during theyear and the Companys relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the Debenhams plc 2015 annual report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee therefore supports the board in making its formal statement on page 85.
I would like to take this opportunity towelcome Terry Duddy to the Committee this year and also to thank Sophie Turner MARK ROLFE Laing for her valued contribution to the CHAIRMAN, work of the Committee.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MARK ROLFE CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE THE COMMITTEE HAS SATISFIED ITSELF THAT THE DEBENHAMS PLC2015 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS IS FAIR, BALANCED ANDUNDERSTANDABLE.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 52 Governance 40-85 MEMBERSHIP OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE inrelation to their appointment, The individuals who served on the Committee during the year under review remuneration and terms areset out below: ofengagement To review the Companys plans for Date appointed Attendance at meetings theprevention and detection of Member Committee member during the year fraud, bribery and corruption To provide advice to the board on Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 3 3 whether the Companys annual report, Committee chairman appointed Committee chairman taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 2 September 2012 understandable and provides the 1 information necessary for shareholders Terry Duddy 10 April 2015 1 1 to assess the Companys performance, 2 Peter Fitzgerald 18 October 2012 2 3 business model andstrategy Martina King 1 August 2009 3 3 ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 3 3 DURING THE YEAR 3 Sophie Turner Laing 1 May 2010 3 3 Financial reporting The Committee reviewed the annual 1 Terry Duddy became a member of the Committee on 10 April 2015 and two of the meetings held and interim financial statements during duringtheyear were prior to his appointment date.
It considered significant Peter Fitzgerald was unable to attend the meeting held in April 2015 due to a schedule clash.
3 Sophie Turner Laing stepped down from the board on 31 July 2015 and as a result ceased membership accounting policies, financial reporting oftheCommittee on that date.
issues and judgements together with the findings as set out in the reports All of the members of the Committee are good practice.
The terms of reference from the external auditors.
ofthe Committee are available on Committee considered the clarity and Both Mark Rolfe and DennisMillard are theCompanys website: http: completeness of the disclosures within considered by theboard tohave recent debenhamsplc.
In accordance with the terms Internal audit In addition to the members of the ofreference, the Committees The Committee received updates Committee, the Chairman, the Chief responsibilities include, but are not from the Director of Internal Audit Financial Officer, the Director of Internal limited to, the following matters: andRisk Management at each of its Audit and Risk Management and senior meetings during the year covering, representatives of the Company external To monitor the integrity of financial amongst other matters, updates on auditors, PwC, attend and receive papers statements including any related the Groups significant risks and for each meeting.
The Company information presented with the internal financial controls, progress Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
financial statements and any formal against the approved audit plan, the After each meeting thechairman reports announcements relating to the key findings from reviews undertaken to the board onthe matters discussed, Companys financial performance and managements implementation on recommendations and on actions To review any changes in accounting ofitsrecommendations.
principles and consider the appropriateness of accounting Governance The Committee met with the Companys policiesadopted by the Company The Committee assessed the external auditor once during the year To review the internal audit programme effectiveness of the external audit without management being present and and ensure that the internal audit process via an internal questionnaire once with each of the Chief Financial function is properly resourced completed by the Committee, the Officer and the Director of Internal Audit To agree with the external auditors Company Secretary, the Director of and Risk Management without other thenature and scope of the audit Finance and Support Services and the management being present.
andreview the output Director of Internal Audit and Risk To review and monitor the Management.
The questionnaire RESPONSIBILITIES OF effectiveness of the risk management circulated focused on the quality of the THECOMMITTEE and internal control systems within audit team, their understanding of the The role and responsibilities of the thebusiness business and the audit approach.
The Committee are set out in its terms of To consider the appointment of Committee considered the results of reference which are reviewed annually theexternal auditors and their the review at its meeting in October by the Committee taking into account independence and to make 2015 and concluded that the audit relevant legislation and recommended recommendations to the board process is effective and that the external auditors challenge management when appropriate.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 53 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee considered the new Significant issues in relation to the statements for the year ended regulations introduced by the UK financial statements 29August 2015 are set out below Corporate Governance Code The significant areas of focus together with a summary ofthe actions published September 2014 and the considered by the Committee in taken.
Inaddition, the Committee and EU Audit Reform to ensure that the relation to the 2015accounts continue the external auditors have discussed Company is ready to incorporate to be as disclosed in FY2014.
the other areas of focus of the audit as those regulations into its corporate set out in the independent auditors governance framework and to report The significant issues considered in report on pages 86 to 92. against them in FY2016.
relation to the Groups financial The compliance committee, chaired by Matt Smith the Chief Financial Matter considered Actions Officer, supported the Committee Revenue recognition The Committee reviews revenue inassessing whether the Companys As with most companies there recognition practice and the annual report, taken as a whole, is continues to be a risk that, in order to underlying assumptions and fair, balanced and understandable achieve the planned results, revenue estimates.
In addition, the internal andcomplies with all legal and may be recognised in contravention audit function reports to the regulatory requirements.
ofthe Groups policy for revenue Committee on the controls and The members of the Committee and recognition.
The Committee senior management within the also routinely monitors the views of business wereprovided with training the external auditors on revenue by a seniormember of the accounting recognition issues.
During the year, training was provided on accounting for shareInventory valuation During FY2015, the Committee based payments which is one of the The Company continues to use the received reports from both the Groups principal accounting policies.
retail method in respect of valuation internal and external auditors setting Previously, training has covered some ofinventory in the UK and Ireland out inventory risk metrics and findings of our other principal accounting which is reliant on a number of from the examination of controls in policies including revenue recognition judgemental components, details these areas.
These reports indicated and retirement benefit costs.
ofwhich are set out in note 5 to the that inventory was valued satisfactorily.
External audit The scope of the audit for FY2015 was EXTERNAL AUDITORS As regards the risk of the external agreed together with the fees and INDEPENDENCE auditors withdrawal from the market, terms of engagement.
Details of the In order to ensure that an appropriate the Company considers that there amounts paid to the external auditors relationship is maintained with the aresufficient other auditors in the for the audit services for 2015 are external auditors, a policy on auditor marketplace should this situation givenin note 6 to the financial independence has been established everarise.
statements on page 107. and is reviewed annually.
This policy covers matters such as that auditors and The objective of the Audit Committees their staff must have no family, financial, policy in relation to the provision of employment, investment orbusiness non-audit services by the auditors is relationship with the Company, the toensure that the provision of such employment by the Company of former services does not impair the external audit employees, the rotation of audit auditors independence or objectivity.
partners and the controls around the All fees for non-audit work require provision of non-audit services.
pre-authorisation by either the Chief Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 54 Governance 40-85 Financial Officer or the Company EXTERNAL AUDITOR Secretary or by the Audit Committee APPOINTMENT incircumstances where the fees are PwC has served as the Companys above an agreed threshold.
An auditors since flotation in 2006. independent report is produced each JohnEllis hasbeen the audit quarter during the year detailing all partnersince 1September 2013. non-audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.
This The Committee considers that based information is reported to the Audit oncurrent guidance and the timeline, Committee at each meeting by the mandatory auditor rotation would be Company Secretary.
required after the August 2020 year end.
However, given that the current The Companys policy identifies three audit partner must rotate off the categories of accounting services.
The Companys account in 2018 the first category is audit-related services Committee has agreed that, subject which the auditors are permitted to tothe rules evolving any further, 2018 provide.
The second category is would be the logical time for PwC to prohibited services which the auditors rotate off the account and for the are not permitted to provide.
auditto be put out to tender.
Prohibited services are those which might result in the external auditors The Committee is satisfied thatPwC auditing their own work, or making remains independent and is bestplaced management decisions for the to conduct the Companys audit for Company, and those where some FY2016.
The Committee therefore mutuality of interest is created or recommends that PwC be re-appointed wherethe external auditors are put in asthe Companys auditors.
the role of advocate for the Company.
The third category is potential MARK ROLFE services which the auditors may, in CHAIRMAN, certain circumstances, provide subject AUDIT COMMITTEE to compliance with the independence policy.
These services include tax advisory services or services where the auditors are acting as the Companys reporting accountant.
0.1 million was paid by the Company to PwC for non-audit services which represents 15.3% of the total audit fee paid to PwC.
The audit fees paid by the pension schemes were 32,300.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 55
