NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the year ended29 August 2015.
Responsibilities The key responsibilities of the Committee are: Identifying and nominating, for the approval of the board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise together with leading the process for such appointments Putting in place plans for succession, inparticular with respect to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and theSenior Independent Director Reviewing regularly the board structure, size and composition and making recommendations to the board of adjustments that are deemed necessary and in accordance with the Companys policy on diversity NIGEL NORTHRIDGE Annually reviewing the time required CHAIRMAN, from and spent by a non-executive NOMINATION COMMITTEE director in fulfilling his or her duties The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website and are reviewed annually by the Committee.
ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The Committee met twice during the year at which it: THE GOAL AT Evaluated the balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge on the board and DEBENHAMS recommended the appointment of Terry Duddy as an independent ISTOENSURE non-executive director of the Company, effective from 10 April 2015.
The appointment was facilitated by external THATTHEBOARD search consultants Lygon Group which has no connection to the Company.
ISWELL BALANCED Lygon worked with the Chairman to provide a long list of candidates and AND APPROPRIATE then a short list.
Candidates met with various members of the board after which the Committee was able to FORTHENEEDS formulate its recommendation Reviewed the non-executive directors OFTHEBUSINESS.
time commitments and lengths of service and recommended to the board the re-appointment of Martina King for a further three year term Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 50 Governance 40-85 effective from 31 July 2015.
Having boardismindful of its diversity policy completed two three year terms as a andwill continue totake thisinto account non-executive director, Sophie Turner when consideringfuture appointments.
Laing stepped down from the board on 31 July 2015 ACTIVITIES SINCE YEAR END Reviewed and considered the Peter Fitzgeralds appointment as an succession plans for the Chief independent non-executive director has Executive down to senior executives been renewed for a further three year holding key roles within the business term commencing on 4 October 2015.
Carried out an annual review of the directors conflicts of interest register, Dennis Millard, who has served in excess diversity policy and the Committees ofnine years, has agreed, subject to terms of reference shareholders approving his re-election atthe forthcoming AGM, to remain on DIVERSITY theboard as a non-independent director The goal at Debenhams is to ensure for a further year.
As a result he will be thatthe board is well balanced and succeeded by Terry Duddy as Senior appropriate for the needs of the business, Independent Director and by Martina King comprising directors who aresufficiently as chair of the Remuneration Committee.
experienced and independent of Both of these appointments are to be character and judgement.
When effective from 14 January 2016 subject to recommending new directors to the shareholders approving the respective board the Nomination Committee has directors election re-election.
regard to the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, including COMMITTEE EVALUATION gender.
However board appointments The annual evaluation of the Committees are always made on merit.
Following the effectiveness concluded that the board changes which took place this year Committee continues to operate effectively.
thepercentage of women on the Debenhams plc board at the end of NIGEL NORTHRIDGE the2015 financial year is 20%.
The CHAIRMAN, NOMINATION COMMITTEE Composition The individuals who served on the Committee during the year under review are set out below: Date appointed Attendance at meetings Member Committee member during the year Nigel Northridge CommitteeChairman 1 April 2010 2 2 1 Terry Duddy 10 April 2015 0 0 Martina King 1 August 2009 2 2 Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 2 2 Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 2 2 2 Sophie Turner Laing 1 May 2010 2 2 1 Terry Duddy became a member of the Committee on 10 April 2015 and the meetings held during the year were prior to his appointment date.
2 Sophie Turner Laing stepped down from the board on 31 July 2015 and as a result ceased membership ofthe Committee on that date.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51
