RESOURCES, RELATIONSHIPS AND SUSTAINABILITY Ensuring our ability to endure No.
of factories MANAGING OUR RESOURCES The committee considers key global ANDRELATIONSHIPS trends, the environment and new In order to deliver a compelling technologies in order to identify 941 customer proposition at great business risks, and opportunities to value, our sustainable ethical sourcing support our continual development strategy underpins everything that and growth.
Female senior management wedo as a responsible retailer.
Our customers have the right to expect GLOBAL SOURCING thatwe source and select the highest Working together, our ethical 47% quality products from suppliers with compliance and corporate best practice due diligence and responsibility teams, buying regularaudits of ethical compliance functionand our global sourcing Debenhams Foundation and technical capability in line with division ensurea consistent funds raised in 2015 ourcode of conduct, conditions andcosteffective flow of goods.
Wesource product from 1,246 As set out in our policies and 1.7m suppliers, ofwhich 586 are own conditions of trading, our suppliers brandlabel suppliers, operating and factories must ensure that their outof941factoriesin diverse markets employees are paida fair wage, treated Employee engagement aroundthe world.
Further details with dignity, notdiscriminated against canbefound on ourwebsite: http: or exploited in any way and have a safe sustainability.
In addition, they 79% undertake not to sub-contract under Business sustainability any circumstances.
Top sourcing countries Our sustainability committee ischairedby Martina King, a nonWe have two overseas offices based in executive director.
The committee Hong Kong and Bangladesh working ismade up of senior executives from with the London sourcing, ethical key functions across the business.
The compliance and quality assurance committees primary goal is totake a teams.
The Bangladesh office supports medium to long-term view of the world our strategy to increase direct in which we trade, ensuring that sourcing, enabling us to have more allaspects of our business remain direct open working relationships sustainable, enabling us to continue and more flexibility, control and asasuccessful international retailer transparency, as well as benefiting and to achieve our strategic targets.
Debenhams has been serving our customers for more than 200 years In India, our representative office No.
of factories and as global trends impact on our supports the management of ethical China 486 business, we aim toensure that we compliance and quality assurance India 159 will continue to serve our customers alongside our ownsourcing team.
Turkey 35 Due to our international and Romania 27 e-commerce growth a revised Other UK 28 187 environmental and chemical policy Total 941 is due to be published in 2015 16.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 34 Strategic report 2-39 Due diligence and monitoring HR practices and treatment of We operate a comprehensive factory workers.
Further details are available approval and audit process.
During on our ownwebsite and at 2014 15, all 941 factories were audited www.
orre-visited for follow up remediation as part of our ongoing monitoring ILO Better Work Programme programme.
The audit reports and We are part of Better Factories remediation plans must be approved Cambodia BFC and Better before any further business with the WorkVietnam BWV which Company can be transacted.
Whilst underapartnership between the we recognise the international International Labour Organisation independent third party audit ILO and manufacturers aim to Business share by country % companies, our nominated audit promote rights atwork and enhance partner is Intertek ITS.
We runour own spot check Bangladesh Accord programme, whereby each month We remain a signatory to the Accord factories are randomly selected for andact as Lead Brand to a group of unannounced inspections tocheck factories in Bangladesh.
We continue for any subcontracting.
to support our suppliers and factories to ensure the remediation from the During thecourse of 2014 15, we visited Accord inspections is being completed more than 700 factories: the majority of to ensure worker safety.
these were unannounced, including factory visits in the UK made by Martina Sudokkho skills and King, chair of the sustainability employmentprogramme China 43% committee and our Director of Ethical Debenhams is the first retailer to be India 14% Trade and Corporate Responsibility.
We involved in this programme which aims to Bangladesh 12% also facilitated a visit to a fully vertical improve skill levels within factories for the Vietnam 6% manufacturing site in Bangladesh by a Bangladesh workforce, in coordination Cambodia 6% global investment organisation to see with Bangladeshs Ministry of Education Turkey 4% first-hand the standard of the factories and the UK Department for International Romania 4% wepartner with and to understand the Development.
United Kingdom 3% extent of what is happening on the Pakistan 2% ground since the tragic collapse of DEBENHAMS FOUNDATION Sri Lanka 2% RanaPlaza in 2013.
The Debenhams Foundation was Other 4% setupin March 2012 to ensure WORKER WELLBEING Debenhams hasastrong, consistent We have a number of projects in charitable approach.
The aim of the relationto improving the lives of those Debenhams Foundation is primarily to within our supply chain.
In particular, raise money for its key charity partners female empowerment and worker which reflect the causes that wellbeing form two of our key ethical Debenhams customers hold dear.
The following projects we The key charity partners are: Children have developed or participate in as wider in Need, Help for Heroes and Breast collaborative retailer initiatives and full Cancer Now.
In FY2015 the Debenhams details canbefound on our website: Foundation raised 1.7 million.
com totalfunds raised by the Debenhams Foundation since its inception now LIFE stands at 3.9 million.
Further details LifeSkills for Empowering Women on thework and achievements of the LIFE is a partnership established Debenhams Foundation can be during2015 with ahealth resource foundathttp: Debenhamsplc.
The purpose istoempower female OUR EMPLOYEES workers by strengthening their life Debenhams directly employs around skills, using apeereducation approach.
28,000 people in the UK, Denmark, the Republic of Ireland, Hong Kong and Benefits for Business and Workers Bangladesh.
Debenhams is committed BBW programme to ensuring that employees or applicants BBW is currently run in Bangladesh for employment are treated equally andIndia by Impactt, which is a leading regardless of gender, race, ethnic Top: Dhaka BBW Bottom: Dhaka consultancy specialising in ethical trade, ornational origin, religious, political factorypresentation production human rights, labour standards, gender orphilosophical beliefs, disability, finishingline and international development.
Impactt maritalorcivil partnership status, sexual works with retailers, governments and orientation, gender reassignment or age.
NGOs to maximise positive impact on workers and local communities.
The objective of the programme istotrain factory management on productivity, Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35 RESOURCES, RELATIONSHIPS AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED Through our equal opportunities policy we Gender split atfinancial year end aim to create an environment that offers all employees the chance to use their skills Male Female and talent.
Decisions on recruitment, Directors 8 2 training, promotion, pay terms and Senior management 79 70 conditions and leavers are based solely on objective, job-related criteria, and personal All employees 5,603 18,180 competence andperformance.
INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIPS Debenhams has a number of policies We are an active member of the Wherever possible the Company inplace to protect and promote BRC and involved in several working makes reasonable adjustments to employee welfare and is committed groups.
Some of the working ensure that disabled employees are tosupporting all human rights in groups that we participate in, able to work effectively including the ourbusiness operations and in our include: provision of equipment, training and relationships with our suppliers adjustment of the work environment or andother stakeholders.
Better Retail Climate Ethical Labour HUMAN RIGHTS AND MODERN SLAVERY Modern Slavery Respecting human rights across ourglobal reach is a fundamental part of our Timber Company ethics and integrity.
We have followed the UN Guiding Principles on Chemical Business and Human Rights in order to judge our salient issues and associated risks to our business as an international retailer.
We welcome the UK Governments Debenhams remains a member Modern Slavery Act of March 2015 and fully support this legislation, which will help ofthe Ethical Trading Initiative create a level playing field across industry and supply chains.
We have already ETI :the ETI Base Code is an incorporated additional clauses into our supplier conditions of trading, business internationally recognised code of policies and code of conduct and in due course will publish our Human Rights labour practice.
We are involved policy, providing relevant training to employees and our globalsupply base.
with various activities such as the Leicester working group, Living We promote and respect human rights through policy and stakeholder Wages, the China working group dialogues, and participate in various industry forums and working groups.
and in the past 12 months we On30 March 2015, we held a supplier conference at our head office for all UK worked in collaboration with the ETI, suppliers and factories to introduce the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
We required other retailers and the Home Office our UK supply base to attend workshops ona new initiative of which we are on the ModernSlavery Act 2015. afounding member, alongside other major UK retailers, called Fast Forward.
This is to introduce a new audit model, the methodology and preparatory requirements, which at present replaces the industry standard SMETA for theUK supply base.
We continue to use the SMETA methodology globally.
As an immediate priority during theremaining part of 2015 we are conducting these audits at each factory in the UK, and inspections will also be conducted foroutsourced labour providers.
We continue to work closely with the ETI and BRC and remain an active member of the relevant working groups.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 36 Strategic report 2-39 Engagement survey For Head Office, our talent The results ofthe third annual employee development programmes continue survey YourVoice 2015 show that our to evolve, focusing on areas of growth engagement score has improved to 79%.
Business focused In line with last year, more than 21,000 projects have been integrated into colleagues participated in the survey.
development programmes to add continuous learning opportunities What has been particularly pleasing is to aswellas buildeffective crosssee some of the gains on both last year functional working.
and two years ago in the areas where we have had specific management focus or We are currently participating in investment.
We believe initiatives such thegovernment trailblazer initiative as the Learning@Work events, a new forindustries to design and own performance management process and apprenticeship standards.
In addition local Your Voice action plans have toour current retail apprenticeships driven these improvements.
runin key stores we are trialling a food apprenticeship in our restaurants in Building employee performance asample of stores in the North West.
We launched our goal setting process for all employees in 2013 14, supported We have taken business placements  goal setting from a broad range of top universities.
The aim is Ourbusiness placement participants forall employees to clearly see and undergo an intensive training berewarded for the part they play programme, with 60% returning indriving the performance of the touson completion of their full business for future success.
tobuild on our new performance review process, defining and ENVIRONMENT embedding the Debenhams Success SCAP Sustainable Clothing Action factors asbehaviours required from Plan and TRAID ouremployees.
The Sustainable Clothing Action Plan SCAP aims to improve garment Business information and key messages sustainability.
We are amongst other are cascaded to all employees leading clothing companies that have throughout the business via personal pledged to measure and reduce their briefings and email.
Briefings are also environmental footprint and are a held by the Chief Executive and senior signatory to the SCAP 2020 management to update employees on Commitment.
Further details are the performance of the Company and available on our website.
As part of the Companys strategy.
The Employee ourcommitment we have partnered Consultation Forum, which is attended with TRAID, a charity working to stop by elected representatives from stores textiles and footwear from being and head office, is another medium by thrown to landfill, reducing waste and which employees receive information carbon emissions while raising on the Company as well as giving fundstofight global poverty.
employees the opportunity to be consulted on certain activities of We have launched a head office the business.
recyclinginitiative for staff to dispose ofboth samples and their own clothing, Building a pipeline of leaders footwear and accessories.
In 2015 16 andmanagers we aimto operate a customer facing We launched a new robust process to option for stores and online.
define talent throughout thebusiness and to support succession planning.
In Energy efficiency addition, we launched a new series of Debenhams has reported its development programmes tosupport greenhouse gas GHG emissions talented store employees progressing since2008 and reported online from sales advisor through to store totheCarbon Disclosure Project manager, which has seen over 1,000 since2010.
We participate in the UK non-management staff working Governments CRC Energy Efficiency Top Middle: Bottom: LIFE Team towards being thestore managers Scheme where we are in the top Bangladeshi factory training Bangalore of the future.
quartile of the CRC league table.
employees OurGHG footprinting, reporting andassurance services are .
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37 RESOURCES, RELATIONSHIPS AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT HASDECREASED BY 1.3% Energy efficiency is a key component We opened our first overseas GREENHOUSE GAS GHG REPORT ofour store expansion and distribution hub, in Singapore, in April 2014 15 .
We currently process more than Debenhams has reported its GHG in Borehamwood and Scunthorpe have 5million units per year through the emissions for itsUK, Irish and Danish benefited from full LED lighting schemes facility and service our Middle East operations since 2008.
Since then on the shop floor and in the back of house franchise partner with direct shipments its footprint boundary has evolved areas, reducing total energy usage by 19% of more than 65% of their total stock to include areas such as other compared with conventional lighting.
Most of our Asian origin stock international offices, packaging, Following a successful trial at Birmingham now ships directly from point of hanger production and recycling Bullring we are investing 2million in 2016 manufacture via Singapore into the waste and production of catalogue, on initiatives to retrofit LED lighting in a relevant Middle Eastmarket.
This section number of stores to reduce our energy provides a breakdown of our GHG consumption whilst also improving the This has delivered both significant cost emissions for this year.
For further in-store environment forcustomers savings and improved lead times, details of our GHG emissions visit and employees.
aswell as reduced CO emissions and ourwebsite: http: sustainability.
It will also add debenhamsplc.
Logistics to our DC sustainability project by With the continued growth in click & diverting volume from our prime Supported by Ricardo-AEA, wehave collect and recognising the benefits of UK DCs.
applied the GHG Protocol Corporate animproved service to our stores, we Accounting and Reporting Standard 2013 have combined several parts of our We plan to extend the use of this facility and the UK Government Conversion delivery operation to provide a cost by adding more franchise partners in Factors forCompany Reporting to effective and high frequency delivery theregion.
This allows delivery of all of our emissions are reported in line with the own bought click & collect parcels on Waste management Groups financial year.
Debenhams-owned and managed Debenhams is committed to minimising assets, improving cost effectiveness the amount of waste generated not only This year, based on the data provided, our and the quality of the service to our to improve our environmental footprint, overall carbon footprint has decreased by customers.
This has additionally but also to make financial savings.
Our 1.3%, from 193,365 tonnes CO e in 2014 2 provided a more frequent delivery aim was to send zero store waste to to 190,930 tonnes CO e in 2015.
A 2 service to our stores enabling faster landfill by January 2014.
We have breakdown of this is shown in figure 1. movement of stock through our supply achieved 94% which is a 38% increase chain.
We have alsoinvested in since 2011 and 101 stores are at 100%.
The decrease in overall emissions is enhancing our transport telematics To help drive down the 6% landfill mainly due to a reduction inelectricity tools, providing increased visibility diversion we have worked with new consumption both in terms of energy onall movements and improved partners to assist us to divert our measured in kWh and in emissions service monitoring.
For example, our measured in tonnes CO e. The increase 2 collaboration with Dulux Paints has in Scope 1 emissions this year reflects We have also contracted withrail enabled us toreduce costs and take newly available refrigeration emissions.
freight providers to move as many advantage of their takeback scheme, Scope 3 emissions have increased due containers as possible by rail from where the paint iseither recycled or to the inclusion of a new emission source, ports of arrival to our Sherburn used within community projects.
the production of catalogue, brochure Distribution Centre DC.
successfully generated cost savings as well as reducing CO emissions.
2 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 38 Strategic report 2-39 We will continue to capture more emissions sources in the future.
Inaddition, we will continue to invest in projects that will further support the reduction of our footprint andenvironmental impacts.
This year weinvested 739,628 across energy efficiency projects such as lighting, heating, cooling and controls, with additional investment planned in for 2015 16.
2 Scope 2: Indirect CO e emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
2 Scope 3: Other indirect CO e emissions from sources such as transport of goodsin vehicles not owned 2 orcontrolled by Debenhams, water consumption and waste disposal.
Emissions data are made more meaningful when compared to a core business variable.
We have used intensity ratios for both the total footprint using the annual GTV and premises floor area.
Figure 2 shows the total annual GTV and floor area for the whole business.
The total absolute emissions are then divided by these figures to provide tonnes of CO e per million pounds of GTV and tonnes of CO e per square 2 2 metre of floor area, respectively, as shown in figure 3.
These tables show that the GTV and floor area have increased this year: and yet the intensity metrics have decreased.
Figure 3: Assessment of absolute footprint emissions Assessment 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 Absolute emissions tCO e 200,348 178,457 174,080 193,365 190,930 2 Absolute tCO e m GTV 76 66 63 68 67 2 2 Absolute tCO e m 0.104 0.097 0.096 0.104 0.101 2 Overall, with stringent monitoring management we expect to continue to show improvement in these metrics in the next five years, and continue to contribute positively to the Better Retailing Climate as part of our drive to save energy and protect the environment.
STRATEGIC REPORT The strategic report was approved by aduly authorised committee of the boardof directors on 21 October 2015 and signed on its behalf by: MATT SMITH CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 22 OCTOBER 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39
