Committee membership BOARD OF Remuneration Nomination Audit Sustainability DIRECTORS Nigel Northridge Michael Sharp Governed with experience Matt Smith Suzanne Harlow Dennis Millard Terry Duddy Peter Fitzgerald Stephen Ingham Martina King Mark Rolfe Left to right: Mark Rolfe, Martina King, Terry Duddy, Nigel Northridge, Committee member Committee chairman Michael Sharp, Matt Smith, PeterFitzgerald, Stephen Ingham, Suzanne Harlow and DennisMillard.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 42 Governance 40-85 NIGEL NORTHRIDGE Association of Department Stores.
atMichael Page supports our Role: Chairman of the board since Current external directorships: Ermes strategytoexpand the Debenhams April2010 and of the Nomination Department Stores plc brandinternationally.
Nigel is also a member Current external directorships: oftheRemuneration Committee.
DENNIS MILLARD CA SA, MBA ChiefExecutive Officer of Michael Page Key strengths: Nigel has vast experience Role: Senior Independent Director since May International plc.
Stephen is also a of a range of businesses in both an 2010 following appointment as an memberof Great Ormond Street executive and non-executive capacity.
independent non-executive director in May HospitalsCorporate Partnership.
Hespent 32 years with Gallaher Group plc 2006.
Dennis is also chairman of the including seven years as Chief Executive Remuneration Committee and a member of MARTINA KING between 2000 and 2007 where he drove the Nomination and Audit Committees.
Role: Independent non-executive director consistent and significant growth in Key strengths: As Chairman and Deputy since August 2009 and a member of the shareholder value, ultimately concluding a Chairman of two other retail public Remuneration, Audit and Nomination successful sale of that business.
In addition companies and with past experience as a Committees.
Martina also chairs the to his current non-executive roles, Nigel Finance Director, Dennis brings relevant sustainability committee.
has also served as a non-executive director and broad experience to his roles of Senior Key strengths: Martina has accumulated of Aggreko plc, Thomas Cook Group plc Independent Director and chairman of the extensive experience in management and and Aer Lingus Group plc and as Chairman Remuneration Committee.
Dennis has marketing through holding a number of of Paddy Power plc.
previously also served as Chairman of senior positions in marketing and online Current external directorships: Senior Connect Group PLC and as a nonmedia including Managing Director of Independent Director of Inchcape plc.
executive director of Premier Farnell plc.
She Current external directorships: has also served as a non-executive director MICHAEL SHARP Chairman of Halfords Group plc and of Capita plc.
AsChief Executive Officer Role: Chief Executive since Deputy Chairman of Pets at Home ofFeaturespace Limited, Martina also September2011.
Key strengths: Michael is one of the UKs Current external directorships: Chief most experienced retailers and has spent TERRY DUDDY Executive Officer of Featurespace Limited his entire career in the industry.
He has Role: Independent non-executive director and a non-executive director of Cineworld worked for Debenhams, or its predecessor, since April 2015 and a member of the Group plc.
Michael Remuneration, Audit and Nomination joined Debenhams in 1997 and was Committees.
MARK ROLFE FCA appointed to the board in 1999.
He was Key strengths: Terry was Chief Executive Role: Independent non-executive director appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2006 ofHome Retail Group plc, following its since October 2010.
Mark is also chairman and Deputy Chief Executive in 2008. demerger from GUS in October 2006 until of the Audit Committee and a member Michael is an honorary professor of March 2014, having previously served as ofthe Remuneration and Nomination Glasgow Caledonian University.
Chief Executive of Argos since its Committees.
Current external directorships: None acquisition by GUS in 1998.
He previously Key strengths: Mark is a chartered held senior executive roles at Dixons accountant and has considerable financial MATT SMITH ACA StoresGroup, latterly as Managing and accounting experience including Role: Chief Financial Officer since Directorat PC World.
20years spent with Gallaher Group plc January2015.
Current external directorships: Noninvarious finance and executive roles Key strengths: Matt brings extensive executive director of Hammerson plc.
Terry including that of Finance Director.
He has experience of international and multiis also Chairman ofthe Retail TrustGroup.
also served as a non-executive director of channel retailing to his role as Chief Hornby plc and The Sage Group plc and Financial Officer.
He worked for Mothercare PETER FITZGERALD aschairman of Lane Clark & Peacock LLP.
plc as Chief Financial Officer since 2013 and Role: Independent non-executive director Current external directorships: prior to this, he held a number of senior since October 2012 and a member of the Non-executive director of Barratt finance roles within Home Retail Group plc Audit Committee.
including Finance Director of Argos.
Matt is Key strengths: Peters experience as a chartered accountant and has worked for aleading e-commerce executive is KPMG inboth London and Sydney.
invaluable to Debenhams as we continue Current external directorships: None.
to grow our multi-channel business.
Peter Board gender diversity is Country Manager at Google Japan SUZANNE HARLOW where he oversees every aspect of Google Role: Group Trading Director since Japans business.
Before this he was December 2013.
Country Sales Director for Google UK Eire, Key strengths: Suzanne had led the biggest market for Google outside the Debenhams design, buying and US.
From 1999 merchandising activities in the role of to 2007 Peter worked for Amazon both in GroupTrading Director since 2008 and was Europe and the USA.
appointed to the board in December 2013.
Current external directorships: None She has worked for Debenhams since 1994 and her roles have also included Trading STEPHEN INGHAM Director of Womenswear, Lingerie and Role: Independent non-executive director Beauty between 2005 and 2008 and Buying since January 2013 and a member of the and Merchandising Director of various Remuneration Committee.
Suzanne Key strengths: Stephen has been Male 80% is a member of the Advisory Council of the ChiefExecutive Officer of Michael Page Female 20% British Fashion Council and the International since 2006 having worked Development Council of BalletRambert and forthat business from 1987.
His experience a representative of the International of building an international business Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43
