Letter from the Chairman on Governance Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Dechras Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 30 June 2015.
In 2015, we have concentrated on executing our key strategies.
Good progress has been made with our focused promotion of existing key products, demonstrated by the strong growth in the majority of our EU markets, and in North America in particular.
We have also pushed ahead with the geographic expansion of the business, opening new subsidiaries in Canada and Poland.
Managing Governance Our approach to governance is informed by our belief that good governance enhances longer term shareholder value.
We aim to embed good corporate governance principles in all our policies.
We Michael Redmond encourage the Senior Executive Team SET Non-Executive Chairman and managers to suggest improvements to help ensure that we operate at a Accountability Relations with Shareholders consistently high level of compliance.
The risk assessment framework across the The Annual General Meeting will be held Group is a key focus of the Board and the in Northwich on 23 October 2015 and I This report explains the Companys SET.
The recent appointment of a Head of would like to encourage our shareholders governance framework and provides an Internal Audit and Risk Management will to attend.
It will provide you with an overview of how the main principles of the strengthen the capacity of the Board and opportunity to meet the Board and ask any UK Corporate Governance Code the Code SET to embed the appropriate risk culture questions that you may have in respect of have been applied.
across the Group and obtain independent the Groups activities.
Leadership assurance on risk and control processes.
Finally, should you have any questions in There were no changes in the membership Further detail may be found on page 78. relation to the report, please feel free to at Board level or Committees during the We also agreed the terms of reference for contact me or the Company Secretary.
the SET to provide a greater focus for their activities as a leadership team.
As reported to shareholders last year, Michael Redmond my tenure as Chairman will end at the The Code requires that the Directors explain Non-Executive Chairman conclusion of the 2016 Annual General their responsibility for preparing the Annual 7 September 2015 Meeting.
The search for my successor is Report and Accounts and confirm that being overseen by Ishbel Macpherson, the they consider, taken as a whole, it is fair, Senior Independent Director.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders Board Effectiveness to assess the performance, strategy and The Board considered in September 2014 business model of the Group.
The Audit the report of an external evaluator of Board Committee has been asked to assist in effectiveness and the details of how we reviewing the process undertaken by have responded are reported on page 73. management.
Further detail in relation to this is included in the Audit Committee Report on page 78.
Following assurance from the Audit Committee, the Board gives this confirmation.
68 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Our Governance Corporate Governance KPIs have been designed to measure progress and delivery of Compliance with the 2012 Code the strategic plan and our four growth pillars.
Further details are The Code establishes the principles of good governance for provided on pages 46 and 47. companies: the following report describes how the Company has applied these principles to its activities.
The Board remains Board Membership and Responsibilities committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Details of the Directors together with their biographical details can In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has complied with the be found on pages 66 and 67.
Non-Executive Directors The Financial Reporting Council updated the Code in 2014 the It is considered that each of the Non-Executive Directors is 2014 Code which applies to reporting periods beginning after independent and is free of any business or other relationship 1 October 2014 and so does not apply to the Companys reporting which could materially interfere with, or compromise, their ability to period ended 30 June 2015.
The 2014 Code made changes to the exercise independent judgement.
Each brings with them a breadth requirements on going concern, risk management, internal control, of experience which adds value to the decision making of the Board remuneration policies and shareholder engagement.
The Board as well as the formulation and progression of the Dechra strategy.
In has initiated the planning process to assist our compliance with the line with the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, 2014 Code in the next reporting period.
The 2014 Code may be are determined by the Company to be independent.
Senior Independent Director Leadership Ishbel Macpherson has held the position of Senior Independent The Role of the Board Director since October 2013.
She provides a sounding board for The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long term the Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have concerns success of the Company by the creation and delivery of sustainable which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve shareholder value.
The Boards strategy has four pillars to promote or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Ishbel is leading the growth: recruitment process for the Chairmans successor further details are provided in the Nomination Committee Report on page 80.
Pipeline Delivery: Portfolio Focus: Geographical Expansion: and Acquisition.
Role Responsibilities Chairman Lead the Board in the determination of its strategy and achievement of its objectives Ensure the effectiveness of the Board in all aspects of its role Facilitate the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, ensuring that all decisions are subject to constructive debate and supported by sound decision making processes Ensure shareholder views are brought to the attention of the Board Chief Executive Officer Day-to-day management of Group operations and leading the Senior Executive Team Performance and results of the Group Proposing strategy Executing strategy agreed by the Board Chief Financial Officer Responsible for financial planning and reporting for the Group Management of financial risk Developing and executing the strategic plan Securing funding as required Managing Director DVP EU Management of the majority of Group turnover Nominated Director for health, safety and environmental matters Development and execution of strategy in the EU Non-Executive Directors Provide independent and constructive challenge Represent a broad range of experience and independent judgement Evaluate strategy and risks Stock Code: DPH 69 slugline Corporate Governance continued Board Responsibilities The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Company.
The main responsibilities and key actions carried out are set out below: Responsibilities Actions Strategy and performance Biannual strategy review.
Strategic decisions are made after reports and recommendations are received from management on markets, potential growth areas, product development, risk analysis and execution risks Risk management and internal Annual review of key risks and receipt of Audit Committee reports on risk management process controls and internal financial controls Oversight of the Groups operations Approval of the annual budget and capital expenditure projects.
Site visits to factories and offices in the UK and abroad.
Review progress through business units reports and detailed financial results report Governance Receive governance reviews from external advisers, Company Secretary and internal audit.
Review of Board skills, performance and composition and succession planning Matters Reserved for the Board There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
The schedule of matters covers a number of areas, including the following: Strategy and Management Approval and monitoring of long term objectives and strategy Approval of the Groups operating and capital expenditure budgets Major organisational changes Regular reviews of business performance Approval of acquisitions and business development proposals Financial Reporting Approval of the Annual and Half-Yearly Reports and dividend policy Review of portfolio prioritisation Approval of budget Approval of treasury policy, tax strategy and policy Internal Controls Review and approval of internal controls and risk management policies and processes Corporate Governance Board and Committee composition Corporate Governance matters Approval of policies such as Health and Safety, Sanctions and the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Board Meetings The Board is routinely scheduled to meet nine times per year.
During the year one additional meeting was held in relation to the offer to acquire a 63.3% shareholding equivalent to 69% of voting rights in a Croatian based business, Genera d. d. Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings during the year to 30 June 2015 is set out in the table below: AnneMike Ian Francoise Tony Ishbel Dr Chris Julian Redmond Page Nesmes Griffin Macpherson Richards Heslop Appointment Date 19 April 13 June 22 April 1 November 1 February 1 December 1 January 2001 1997 2013 2012 2013 2010 2013 Board 10 10 10 10 10 10 9 Met 10 times Audit Committee n a n a n a n a 5 5 5 Met 5 times Nomination Committee 3 n a n a n a 3 3 3 Met 3 times Remuneration Committee 4 n a n a n a 4 4 4 Met 4 times Meetings attended Where Directors cannot attend a meeting, the Board papers are still provided allowing the Director to raise any queries or discussion points through the Chairman.
Should Directors have concerns of any nature which cannot be resolved within the Board meeting, they have the right to ensure their view is recorded in the minutes.
70 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Our Governance During the year, in addition to its routine business, presentations by Integration of Florida manufacturing facility: senior management and strategic development, some of the other Non-Executive Director fees: matters considered by the Board included: Delegated Authorities: External auditor selection: Talent development: Regulatory affairs reorganisation: Research and development and Pipeline Delivery: IT strategy and budget: FAP strategy and Vaccines strategy reviews: and Manufacturing strategy review: SET terms of reference.
Hedging arrangements review: Review of external Board evaluation: Board Committees The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Committees, namely the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The full terms of reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
Committee Report on Committee Role and Terms of Reference Pages Audit The main responsibilities are: 75 to 79 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, and assist the Board in ensuring that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control systems as described on page 78: to oversee the relationship with the external auditor, monitor their independence and objectivity, and set the policy for non-audit work: and to review and approve the significant accounting policies.
Remuneration The main responsibilities are: 81 to 95 to determine the remuneration, bonuses, long term incentive arrangements, contract terms and other benefits in respect of the Executive Directors and the Chairman: to oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures: and to approve the design of any employee share schemes.
Nomination The main responsibilities are: 80 to oversee the plans for management succession: to recommend appointments to the Board: to evaluate the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors: and to consider the structure, size and composition of the Board.
The Board also appoints Committees on an ad hoc basis to approve specific projects as deemed necessary.
Director Insurance and Indemnities The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance in respect of legal action against Directors as permitted under the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Company also indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity deed with each Director in respect of legal action to the extent allowed under the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
As at the date of this report, qualifying third party indemnity provisions are in force.
A copy of the indemnity provisions will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Stock Code: DPH 71 slugline Corporate Governance continued Board Composition Effectiveness The Board and its Committees are annually assessed to help ensure their effectiveness is maintained and that they remain fit for purpose.
1 The Chairman manages the Board and oversees the operation of its Committees with the aim of ensuring that they operate effectively by utilising the diverse range of skills and experience of the various 3 Board members.
Board Balance and Independence The Board understands the importance of balance and refreshment 3 in terms of its composition and keeps these matters under review.
There have been no changes at Board level over the past 12 months.
As stated earlier in this report, the Chairman will stand down at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The search for a Non-Executive Chairman 14% successor has commenced.
Non-Exectutive Directors 43% Executive Directors 43% The Nomination Committee Report on page 80 provides further information on succession planning measures taken by the Company together with how we are developing the talent pool internally.
Gender Diversity Length of Tenure of Chairman and 2 5 1 2 1 3 Non-Executive Directors 5 3 1 3 4 2 3 2 1 1 0 Female 0 to 2 2 to 6 6 to 9 9 0 Male years years years years Entire Executive Non-Executive Board Directors Directors Board Composition and Gender Diversity The Board seeks to ensure that the Board and the Committees Senior Executive Team Overall Workforce have an appropriate composition to manage their duties effectively and to manage succession issues.
The Board supports diversity in its broadest sense and considers it an essential driver of Board effectiveness.
The Board recognises the importance that its 3 composition is sufficiently diverse and reflects a wide range of knowledge, skills and experience.
414 The Board does not have a formal diversity policy and is generally 455 opposed to the idea of stated quotas for females.
The Board 7 believes that appointments should be made solely on merit, the key criterion being whether or not the appointee can add to or complement the existing range of skills and experience on the Board.
The Board has 29% female representation.
Female Female 30% Female 52% representation below Board level is 30% of the SET and 52% of the Male 48% overall workforce.
Male 70% 72 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Our Governance Conflicts of Interest and External Board Appointments order to allow them to meet with the executive teams and to be Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 all Directors have a duty shown around the operations.
Ongoing field visits with members to avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct of the UK sales team are organised for each of the Non-Executive or indirect conflict of interest with the Company.
The Articles of Directors and the Chairman which gives them the opportunity to Association of the Company enable the Directors to consider and observe the sales teams activity in the field and their day-to-day if appropriate to authorise any actual or potential conflict of interest interaction with practising veterinarians.
There are safeguards which will apply when Regular briefings are provided to the Directors, which cover a Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
number of legal and regulatory changes and developments relevant First, only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest to the Directors areas of responsibility.
In addition, the Company in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant Secretary informs the Directors of any external training courses decision: secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in which may be of relevance.
a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will also be able to impose Each Director is entitled, on request, to receive information to enable limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they deem this to him or her to make informed judgements in order to discharge be appropriate.
During the financial year under review no actual or their duties adequately.
In addition, all Directors have access to potential conflicts have arisen.
the advice and services of the Company Secretary and senior managers, and may take independent professional advice at the Ian Page is the Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset Companys expense in connection with their duties.
The Board fully considered at the time of his appointment whether this would materially impact Board Evaluation and Effectiveness on his current time commitment as Chief Executive Officer and The effectiveness of the Board is important to the success of whether it could give rise to any conflict.
As he is not involved in any the Group and the Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its investment decision made by Sanford it was not considered that any performance and that of its Committees.
conflict would arise nor would there be any material impact on his The 2014 external Board evaluation time commitment.
An external evaluation of the Board and its Committees Induction and Training was completed during 2014 by Independent Audit Limited In order to ensure that the Board maintains its knowledge and Independent Audit.
The process undertaken by Independent familiarity with the Groups operations at least one Board meeting Audit involved: per year is held at one of the Groups operational sites.
This a review of the Board and its Committees minutes, agenda year, Board meetings were held at Dechra Pharmaceuticals papers and ancillary documents: and Manufacturing DPM in Skipton and at Dechra Veterinary Products EU in Den Bosch, the Netherlands, which provided the Board with one to one meetings with each member of the Board and the an informal opportunity to meet with senior management based at Company Secretary.
The Board also visited DPM in Bladel, the Netherlands.
A comprehensive report was presented to the Board in Any newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive September 2014.
Overall, the review indicated that the Board documentation in relation to the remit and obligations of the role, operated effectively but noted some areas for improvement.
current areas under consideration for the Board and the latest The actions which were taken are shown in the table below: broker reports.
New Directors visit the various business units in External Evaluation Recommendations and Actions Action Progress Ensure risk is included in each strategic discussion Each strategy report includes a discrete risk management section which informs decision making Presentations from each part of the business Presentations from all divisions are part of the rolling agenda.
This broadens the Boards knowledge of the businesses and enhances the exposure of the SET to the Board Greater focus on resource management, talent We have prioritised this for the 2016 financial year.
For further information refer to development and succession planning pages 50 to 52 Board information better tailored to needs of Discussions with Non-Executive Directors have resulted in papers to the Board being Non-Executive Directors more tailored to the Non-Executive Directors requirements Terms of reference for the SET to be established New terms were approved in June 2015 which provide more focus to the SET Stock Code: DPH 73 slugline Corporate Governance continued The 2015 Board evaluation The Directors have a reasonable expectation that both the Company Following the external evaluation last year, it was agreed and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational to undertake an internal evaluation for the 2015 financial existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to year focusing on the following areas: i Board composition: adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these ii strategy review and delivery process: iii the format of annual financial statements.
Board meetings and the decision process: iv training and Internal Control and Risk Management development: v the performance of the Board and the individual The Companys risk management process and internal control Directors: vi Corporate Governance: vii leadership and culture: processes are described in the Strategic Report on pages 58 and 59. and viii risk assessment.
One to one meetings were held by the Chairman with each of the Executive and Non-Executive Relations with Shareholders Directors and Company Secretary.
The evaluation of the Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Chairman was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director.
Relationships with shareholders receive high priority and a The findings of the internal evaluation were discussed at the rolling programme of meetings between institutional shareholders September 2015 Board meeting.
The actions and progress and Executive Directors is held throughout the year.
The made will be reported in next years Annual Report.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer give annual and half-yearly results presentations to institutional shareholders, The Board will perform a further external evaluation in two years analysts and the media in the UK.
These meetings are in addition time.
Internal evaluations will be completed during the intervening to the Annual General Meeting and seek to foster a mutual period.
understanding of the Companys and shareholders objectives.
Re-election of Directors Such meetings are conducted in a format to protect price sensitive On appointment, Directors are required to seek election at their first information that has not already been made generally available to Annual General Meeting following appointment.
At the forthcoming all the Companys shareholders.
Similar guidelines also apply to Annual General Meeting, all of the Directors will retire and offer communications between the Company and other parties such as themselves for re-election.
Each of the Directors has been subject financial analysts, brokers and the media.
to a formal evaluation by the Nomination Committee and it is In January, the Company hosted an investor site visit day at considered that each Director continues to perform effectively the Skipton manufacturing facility for shareholders and will and demonstrate commitment, not only in respect of their roles continue to offer site visits on a periodic basis.
This year, the and responsibilities, but also in relation to the Group and its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also met US shareholders.
The Board therefore recommends that shareholders investors in April 2015.
The Chairman and Senior Independent vote in favour of their respective re-elections.
Director are available to meet shareholders upon request.
Accountability Feedback is collated by the Companys brokers after such Financial Reporting presentations.
The feedback is then circulated to the Board for The Board seeks to present a fair, balanced and understandable review and consideration.
In addition, the Board is provided with assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
a monthly market summary report which reports on share price The responsibilities of the Directors and the external auditor in and share register movements.
Where material changes in respect connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the of remuneration or governance are proposed, the Board seeks Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Independent to consult with its major shareholders before implementing such Auditors Report on pages 99 and 102 to 104 respectively.
Preservation of Value Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The basis on which the Group generates and preserves value over All members of the Board are scheduled to attend the Annual the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the General Meeting the Meeting and the Chairmen of the Audit, Group are to be found in the Strategic Report.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer shareholders questions at the Meeting.
Notice of the Going Concern Meeting is dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to before the Meeting.
The information sent to shareholders includes a affect its future development, performance and position, are set out summary of the business to be covered, with a separate resolution in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 63.
The principal risks that prepared for each substantive matter.
When a vote is taken on may affect the Groups future performance are set out on pages 60 a show of hands, the level of proxies received for and against to 63. the resolution and any abstentions are disclosed at the Meeting.
Following which, the results of votes lodged for and against each As reported last year, the Group completed a refinancing and resolution are announced to the London Stock Exchange and entered into a facilities agreement in September 2014 the Facility displayed on the Companys website.
At the Meeting there will Agreement with a syndicate of banks comprising HSBC Bank plc, be an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Barclays Bank PLC under communications between shareholders and Directors.
which a facility of 120.0 million was made available.
The Facility Agreement includes a committed revolving credit facility of 90.0 million, together with an Accordion facility of 30.0 million.
Michael Redmond The facility is committed for five years until September 2019.
Non-Executive Chairman 7 September 2015 As at 30 June 2015 the Group had cash balances of 45.9 million and net cash of 13.4 million 2014: cash balances of 26.8 million and net borrowings of 5.0 million.
74 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
