Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee the Committee.
During the year, the Committee has continued with its focus on succession planning, leadership development and talent management.
The following report provides an overview of the work carried out during the year under review.
Dechras stance in relation to diversity is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report.
Should you have any questions in relation to this report or the Committee, please feel free to contact me or the Company Secretary.
Committee Membership and Attendance Michael Redmond The membership of the Committee, together Nomination Committee Chairman with appointment dates and attendance at meetings during the year, is set out on pages consultant, JCA Group JCA, was retained two key areas: defining the current talent 66 to 67 and 70 of the Corporate Governance to assist in the recruitment of the new map, and understanding the organisations Report.
Other attendees at the meetings Chairman.
At the commencement of the current capability versus the needs of the include the Chief Executive Officer, the Group recruitment process, a role description future strategic direction of the Company.
HR Director and the Company Secretary who was defined and agreed by the Committee In order to address these points a Groupacts as Secretary to the Committee.
detailing the skills and experience required wide talent review commenced with the for the position of Chairman of the Board.
SET and their direct reports.
It is now The Chairman does not chair the Committee To assist JCA with the understanding of being rolled out across the Group.
The meeting if it is dealing with the appointment the requirements of the role, they met with needs of the future strategic direction of his successor.
The Senior Independent the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial of the Company have been scoped in Director, Ishbel Macpherson, takes the chair Officer and members of the Committee.
A discussion with the Board and the process when required.
list of candidates has been long listed for of matching talent to needs has begun.
These are the first steps towards The main role and responsibilities of the The Committee considers that Michael building a coherent Leadership Committee are set out in the written terms Redmond continues to lead the Development Strategy which will ensure of reference which are available on the Board effectively and maintains his that our Leadership Team has the Company website at www.
independence and integrity at all times.
capabilities required to manage the The Committees terms of reference are His previous pharmaceutical experience business effectively and sustainably.
reviewed on an annual basis and during the and the longevity of his association with The Company is working to ensure it 2015 financial year this took place at the the Company enables him to continue to has strong internal candidates for key February meeting.
An overview of the terms make a strong and effective contribution.
of reference is detailed on page 71 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Non-Executive Directors and Senior Appraisal Process and Executive Team SET Succession Re-appointment of Directors Principal activities of the Committee during Planning Following an internal evaluation, further the year: The Group HR Director undertook a details of which are provided on page Review of the Chairmans Tenure succession planning review of both the 74 of the Corporate Governance The Committee reviewed the Chairmans Non-Executive Directors and the SET and Report, the Committee has concluded tenure in 2014 and agreed that it remained presented her findings to the Committee that each of the Directors seeking in the best interests of the Group and in February 2015.
This review included re-election continues to be an effective its stakeholders for Michael Redmond restructuring the reporting lines for senior member of the Board.
All of the to remain in position as Chairman until management.
Appropriate succession Directors will stand down and be the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
This plans have been documented for key roles proposed for re-election at the 2015 will provide sufficient time to oversee the and where an internal successor has been Annual General Meeting.
continued development of the Board and identified, development plans are being put develop their understanding of Dechra in place to support these individuals.
The recruitment process for a Leadership Needs of the Group Nomination Committee Chairman successor has commenced.
During In considering the leadership needs of the 7 September 2015 the year an independent recruitment Group, the Committee has focused on 80 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
