Our Governance Letter from the Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present this years Audit Committee Report which fully reflects the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the Guidance for Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012.
Our report provides an overview of the work carried out during the period including significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements and how we assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor.
During the period under review we focused particular attention on the tender for external audit services and the establishment of an internal audit and risk management function.
Tender of External Audit Services KPMG LLP KPMG have been our external auditor since 1997.
As recommended by the Julian Heslop Code, the Audit Committee the Committee Audit Committee Chairman decided to put out to tender our external The following report explains the audit services.
Following a tender exercise, judgements and factors the Committee we appointed  LLP considered in reviewing both the tender of PwC as external auditor, who will, subject external audit services and internal audit on to shareholder approval, replace KPMG at pages 78 and 79. the conclusion of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Further details are given on page 79.
The report also outlines significant accounting Internal Audit matters which received particular focus We recently appointed a Head of Internal during the period.
It explains why the issues Audit and Risk Management to provide were considered significant and explains how assurance on our internal controls and risk the Committee satisfied themselves on the management processes.
The Committee validity of the judgements made.
will continue to review closely progress Finally, we specifically reviewed, at the on managements implementation and request of the Board, whether the 2015 monitoring of the internal financial control Annual Report was fair, balanced and recommendations received from Deloitte LLP understandable and concluded that it was.
The basis supporting our conclusion is set out on page 78.
Julian Heslop Audit Committee Chairman 7 September 2015 Stock Code: DPH 75 slugline Audit Committee Report The Purpose and Function of the Audit Committee Other members of the Board normally attend each meeting together the Committee with the lead audit partner and the newly appointed Head of Internal Purpose Audit and Risk Management.
The Committees key aim is to review and report to the Board on The Committee has discussions at least twice a year with the financial reporting, internal financial control effectiveness and to oversee external auditor without management being present including the the relationship with the external auditor.
The main responsibilities are meeting which reviews and endorses the annual results.
summarised on page 71 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Neither the Company nor its Directors have any relationships that Membership, Meetings and Attendance impair the external auditors independence.
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, are detailed on page 70 of the Role and Responsibilities Corporate Governance Report.
The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the written terms of reference which are available on the Company website The Board considers that all members of the Committee are at www.
The Board reviewed the Committees terms of independent.
Julian Heslop has recent and relevant financial experience reference during the year and amended them to reflect the establishment as a result of his financial background and qualification.
Dr Chris and remit of the internal audit and risk management function.
Richards and Ishbel Macpherson provide different but relevant skills and experience which support the Committee in meeting its objectives.
The Major Activities of the Committee during the Year biographies of all Committee members are detailed on pages 66 and 67.
The Committee met five times since the last Annual Report was issued.
The meetings are timed to coincide with the financial The Company Secretary attends each meeting and acts as its reporting timetable of the Company.
The Chairman and the Company secretary assisting the Chairman in ensuring that all Committee Secretary have developed an annual programme of business.
This papers are provided prior to each meeting in a timely manner and allows the Committee to ensure that standing items of business are providing advice to the Committee on all governance related matters.
appropriately considered alongside any exceptional matters that may arise during the course of the year.
The table below provides an overview of the main matters discussed at the meetings: Meeting Date Main Activities 4 December 2014 Consideration of the internal controls project, recruitment of the internal audit and risk manager and progress on the external audit tender Review of the anti-bribery and anti-corruption and whistleblowing policies Review of non-audit fees 9 January 2015 Completion of the external audit tender process and recommendation to the Board 16 February 2015 Review of the Groups half-yearly report Consideration of the Half-Year Review Memorandum prepared by the external auditor Review of the Committees terms of reference Review of non-audit fees including actual and projected spend Consideration of the progress of the internal controls project Review of the dividend policy Meeting with the external auditor without management present 5 May 2015 Review of the audit strategy for the year ending 30 June 2015 including timetable, scope and fees Discussion in relation to the Companys expectations of the external auditor and audit process Review of the internal financial control environment Review of the internal audit work plan to the end of 2015 financial year Review of non-audit fees Discussion of the programme of business for 2016 financial year 1 September 2015 Review of the Groups preliminary statement and draft Annual Report including the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 June 2015 Consideration of the Audit Memorandum prepared by the external auditor, including review of accounting treatment of non-underlying items assessment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill commentary on the general control environment across the Group Review and approval of going concern statement Report from the internal auditor Review of the external audit effectiveness, external auditors independence and level of non-audit fees Meeting with the external auditor without management present Fair, balanced and understandable recommendation of the Annual Report 76 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Our Governance All significant matters under consideration were supported by The Committee gave particular attention to significant matters relevant justification papers and fully discussed in order to ensure where judgement was involved which were complex in nature or that due and appropriate consideration was given before any where adjusted numbers were provided to enhance investors decision was approved.
Further detail in relation to a number of the understanding of the underlying performance.
These matters were matters is provided below: well supported by briefing papers provided by management and were specifically reviewed and agreed by the external auditor, Financial Judgements KPMG, in their reports to the Committee and in related discussions.
The Committee reviewed both the half-yearly and the annual financial statements.
This process included an analysis by The key matters reviewed were as follows: management of key judgements made in determining the results over matters such as the carrying value of intangible assets.
The Committee reviewed this in detail and endorsed managements judgements.
Significant risk considered by the Committee in relation Corresponding actions taken by the Committee to to the financial statements address the issues Review of the carrying value of acquired intangible assets and The Committee reviewed the analysis provided by management goodwill of 155.5 million which represents 80.0% of Group net which supported the underlying carrying values.
producing Animal Products assets, given their recent sales decline, was given particular attention: a combination of 30.0% amortisation of these assets since acquisition together with a realistic assessment of their value on acquisition, given expected market declines at the time, meant that their carrying values were supported by anticipated future cash flows and no impairment was required.
In reviewing the valuations, special attention was paid to the assumptions relating to future growth rates in the context of current underlying performance including the impact of and calculation of terminal values.
The impact of sensitivity analysis was also considered where relevant.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the expected longevity of the intangible assets.
It also reviewed the discount rates used.
Significant judgements considered by the Committee in Corresponding actions taken by the Committee to relation to the financial statements address the issues Review of the corporate tax rate for the year of 24.6%.
The Committee discussed the key risks in respect of corporate tax and considered KPMGs audit work and conclusions.
In order to assist investors with a better understanding of the The Committee reviewed the basis for calculating the underlying underlying performance of the business, management present within figures and its consistency with previous years figures.
It also the financial statements figures for underlying profit and earnings.
sought confirmation from the external auditor, KPMG, that they were This is reconciled to the figures provided in the financial statements satisfied with the accuracy and consistency of these figures.
and excludes matters such as intangible amortisation, profit on The Committee also reviewed material one-off income and costs business disposal and acquisition related restructuring costs.
within the underlying results, if any, and ensured these are clearly disclosed within the financial statements and notes.
Stock Code: DPH 77 slugline Audit Committee Report continued Going Concern Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee reviewed managements 2016 and 2017 budgets The Board retains overall responsibility for establishing the systems for profit, cash flow and net debt and the committed financing of internal control and monitoring their effectiveness and also for facilities available to the Group.
Based on this, it concluded that it is the identification and management of risk.
The Committee monitors appropriate to use the going concern principle for Group reporting.
and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control Further detail in relation to this is provided on page 74 of the activities.
Further details in respect of the internal controls are Corporate Governance Report.
provided within the Strategic Report on pages 58 and 59.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment of the The Committee is currently developing its approach to meeting the Annual Report 2014 Code standards, which are operative for accounting periods At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether commencing from 1 October 2014.
They require the monitoring of the 2015 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable internal control and risk management as an ongoing process as well and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders as assessing the robustness of risk management processes, reporting to assess the Companys performance pages 40 to 45, business on significant control failings, together with a formal assessment of model page 28 and strategy pages 14 to 17. the viability of the Company over a period significantly longer than 12 months.
The Company is planning to comply with the revised terms of The Committee based its assessment on a review of the processes the Code for the 2016 financial year.
and controls put in place by management.
This included the relevant senior management providing information on their own The Group has made further progress during the year in business units and their confirmation that it was fair, balanced and implementing the recommendations made by Deloitte to strengthen understandable.
In addition, the final draft document was reviewed the risk management process and internal controls.
The application by all members of the Senior Executive Team SET which included of key financial controls was tested by Internal Audit for the year the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer who also ended 30 June 2015.
The Committee reviews progress on a regular concluded that it met the fair, balanced and understandable test.
basis and reviewed the overall assessment of the Groups internal financial controls at its meeting on 1 September 2015.
It concluded An integral part of the process was the Committees final review: that there was reasonable assurance that internal financial controls other Board members and the external auditor were invited to operated effectively as referred to on pages 58 and 59 of the comment so that issues could be debated and a final assessment Strategic Report.
The external auditor also confirmed that in their opinion the Annual Report 2015 was fair, balanced and understandable.
Appointment of Internal Auditor The Committee appointed a Head of Internal Audit and Risk This assessment was carried out by the Committee on 1 September Management in April 2015.
He is accountable to and delivers regular 2015, following which the Committee reported to the Board that it reports to the Committee.
The Committee defines the scope of his was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report 2015 is fair, work which broadly comprises provision of independent assurance balanced and understandable.
that major business risks are being managed appropriately, and that the internal control framework is robust and operating effectively.
Review of Policies and Procedures During the year the Committee reviewed the following policies: External Auditors Audit Plan Accounting Policies KPMG agreed their audit plan with the Committee which included The Committee reviewed the accounting policies and their audit scope, key audit risk areas and materiality.
The re-confirmed that they are appropriate for the Group.
Committee discussed the audit plan with KPMG and approved it Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption and Whistleblowing together with the fees proposed.
The Committee reviewed the current documentation, as Independence, Effectiveness and Objectivity of the Audit circulated to all employees within the Group.
Anti-Bribery and Process Anti-Corruption Policy implementation is being focused on The Committee conducted a review of the external auditors relationships with third parties and export contracts which may independence, effectiveness and objectivity based on: pose a particular bribery risk.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Committee is updated on a regular basis in respect of its own assessment of the quality of the audit plan, the rigour of the training and monitoring of the policies across the Group.
the audit findings and conclusions and the extent to which the An online training solution is being developed to assist with the Lead Audit Partner understands and constructively challenges ongoing training requirements of the Group.
In respect of the management: Whistleblowing Policy, the Committee reviewed the process in place to report issues.
the results of a questionnaire on external auditor effectiveness and efficiency further detail on which is provided below : Dividend The dividend proposal was reviewed by the Committee and was a report prepared by KPMG setting out its processes to ensure recommended to the Board for approval.
independence and its confirmation of compliance with them: and the level of non-audit fees as a percentage of the audit and half-yearly fees paid to the external auditor, which were 3.1% 2014: 52.4%.
78 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Our Governance Responses to the questionnaire have been received from all finance the external audit.
Deloitte was excluded from the process as they directors across the Group who provided information and assistance provide significant global tax management and compliance support to the external auditor.
The questionnaire covered a number of to the Group that would be disruptive to change.
Each firm was areas, including: invited to make a presentation to the Committee ensuring that each firm had equivalent access to management.
Written tenders covered quality of the audit team: pre-determined areas of focus including risk identification, audit approach to risk and audit scope together with fee proposals.
knowledge and understanding of the Group: The Committee was mindful throughout the process that the appropriateness of the areas of audit focus: independence of the external auditor be preserved and required interaction with audit specialists: and disclosure of existing relationships.
timeliness and adequacy of communication by the external The Committee selected PwC, subject to shareholder approval, auditor.
because the Committee believed that they best met the objectives it had set including demonstrating an understanding of our business The results of the questionnaire were reported to the Committee at and associated risks and an ability to work constructively and the meeting on 1 September 2015. challengingly with management and provide the Committee with the Based on the review set out above the Committee remains satisfied assurances needed in order to carry out its function.
with the external auditors independence, effectiveness and Non-Audit Assignments objectivity.
With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by the external Appointment of External Auditor auditor, the Company has a policy of ensuring that the provision of KPMG will be retiring as the Companys external auditor at the such services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Prior approval of the Committee is required before the external reports of KPMG on the Companys financial statements for past auditor is appointed to carry out non-audit work and the rationale for financial years did not contain an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of doing so is provided to the Committee, who assess the qualification, opinion and were not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit expertise, independence and objectivity of the external auditor prior scope, or accounting principles.
In connection with the audits of to granting approval.
As such, non-audit fee spend is a standing the Companys financial statements for each of the two previous item on the agenda for every Committee meeting.
financial years, and in the subsequent half-yearly period to 31 December 2014, there were no disagreements with KPMG The Committee firmly believes that there are certain non-audit on any matters of accounting principles or practices, financial services where it is appropriate for the Group to engage the external statement disclosure, or auditing scope and procedures which, if auditor.
In such cases safeguards are in place to ensure continued not resolved to the satisfaction of KPMG, would have caused KPMG external auditor independence including the use of separate teams to make reference to the matter in their report.
to undertake the non-audit work separately from the audit work.
During the year, the external auditor provided assistance with tax At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a resolution to appoint compliance correspondence, completing an engagement agreed in  LLP PwC as the external auditor and to the prior year.
The Committee did not consider that the performance authorise the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed.
of this non-audit work would affect or impair the external auditors There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees integrity.
This is consistent with the ethical standard published by the capacity to recommend a particular firm as external auditor and the Accounting Practices Board.
Company does not provide an indemnity to the external auditor.
The results of this policy are that: PwC have been invited to observe the year end close process and i Deloitte undertake global tax compliance work in substitution for they have agreed plans to assure a smooth transition.
the external auditor: and External Audit Engagement Director Rotation ii during the course of the year Deloitte, Ernst & Young, Grant In line with the ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board the Thornton and PwC have been appointed to provide advice on an Lead Audit Partner will be rotated every five years.
employment matter, related tax advice, company reorganisation External Audit Firm Tendering and due diligence.
KPMG as KPMG Audit Plc and latterly as KPMG LLP has been A summary of audit and non-audit fees in relation to the year is appointed as the external auditor since the Companys formation provided in note 6 to the Groups financial statements.
This shows in 1997 and their performance has been reviewed annually by that non-audit work carried out by the external auditor represented the Committee since that time.
The Committee has remained 3.1% 2014: 52.4% of the annual audit fee and half-yearly review consistently satisfied with the level of independence of the external fee, and reflects the policy set out above.
auditor and the integrity of the external audit process.
As reported in the 2014 Annual Report the Committee was aware of the recommendations in the Code in relation to the expectation that Julian Heslop the external audit is put out to tender every ten years, and therefore Audit Committee Chairman decided to undertake a tender process to coincide with the rotation 7 September 2015 of the Lead Audit Partner of KPMG.
Given the size, complexity, and geographical spread of the Company, the Committee decided to invite PwC, Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young and KPMG to take part in a tender for carrying out Stock Code: DPH 79 slugline
