Dignity plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee report The Committee works with the full Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities.
David Blackwood, Chairman of the Audit Committee Consider the financial statements and recommend to the Dear Shareholder, Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present my first report as a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable and provides as the new Chairman of the Audit Committee.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, business model and strategy of the Group: Membership and Process The following Directors served on the Audit Committee Review significant financial reporting issues and judgements the Committee during 2015 and through to the date of contained in the financial statements: this report: me as Chairman from 1 October 2015, Ishbel Review the systems of accounting, internal control and risk Macpherson as Chairman until she resigned from the Board management: on 30 September 2015, Alan McWalter Senior Independent Director, Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton each of whom Monitor and review the significant risks identified by the are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Group as well as the management and mitigation of those risks: The Board is satisfied that I have, as Chairman of the Oversee and maintain an appropriate relationship with the Committee and my predecessor Ishbel Macpherson had, Groups external auditors and review the effectiveness, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company independence and objectivity of the external audit process: Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
I report the Committees deliberations at the next Board meeting and the Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit minutes of each meeting are made available to all members function: review the internal audit plan: all internal audit of the Board.
reports: review and monitor managements responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal audit function: The Committee met three times during 2015: in February prior and maintain an effective relationship with the Head of to the release of the Preliminary Announcement for 2014: prior Internal Audit: and to the release of the Interim Announcement for 2015 in July: Monitor and review the arrangements by which employees and again in December 2015 immediately prior to the end of can, in confidence, raise concerns about any possible the financial period.
The Committee also met in February 2016 improprieties in financial and other matters such as prior to the release of the Preliminary Announcement for 2015. compliance with the Bribery Act.
The attendance records of the members is shown on page 43.
The external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP EY, the Chairman, The terms of reference are available on the Groups corporate the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, Operations Director, website at www.
the Head of Internal Audit and the Financial Controller have attended meetings by invitation.
Activities in the period The key activities of the Committee during the period were: The Committee holds a private session with the Lead Partner from our external auditors without management present at It reviewed the financial statements in the 2014 and 2015 least twice a year.
In addition, I, as Chairman of the Audit Annual Report and Accounts and the 2015 Interim Report.
Committee and my predecessor Ishbel Macpherson, met with As part of this review the Committee received reports from the Lead Partner a total of three times through the year to the external auditors on their audit of that Annual Report provide the opportunity for open communication and the free and their review of the interim results.
It also reviewed the flow of any concerns relating both to the openness, transparency Preliminary and Interim Announcements made to the and general engagement of management with the audit London Stock Exchange: process as well as to understand EYs assessment of key At all meetings it reviewed reports made by Internal Audit judgements as they arise.
which included the review of progress against the plan for the period, the results of principal audits and other significant Role findings, adequacy of managements responses and the The Committee works with the full Board to fulfil its oversight timeliness of resolution of actions arising: responsibilities.
Its primary functions are to: Review and agreement of the three year rolling plan for Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other Internal audit: information provided to shareholders to ensure they represent a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups position, performance, strategy and prospects: Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47 A six month review and recommendation of formal adoption The Audit Committee, on an annual basis, formally considers to the full Board of the Risk Register.
This is part of a formal the performance and independence of the external auditors.
ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing The formal annual review has been completed in the first the significant risks faced by the Group.
The principal risks quarter of 2016.
The Committee was, based on that review, facing the Group are considered on pages 29 to 31 of the fully satisfied with EYs performance in 2015.
Annual Report: EY were appointed in 2014 following a tender process and a Formally review the going concern assumptions adopted in resolution to re-appoint them as external auditors will be tabled the preparation of the 2014 and 2015 accounts: at the AGM on 9 June 2016.
Completion of a comprehensive review of Dignitys risk control framework and its linkage to the Risk Register and Policy on non-audit fees Viability Statement included in the Strategic Report on The Group has a rigorous and comprehensive policy on the use page 31: of the external auditors for non-audit work.
The policy states that non-audit fees are limited to no more than 50 per cent of The Committee discussed the annual external audit plan in the annual audit fee unless there are exceptional advance of the year end with the external auditors, which circumstances, which are defined as: addressed the planned audit approach to these key accounting areas: and The work necessitates the use of the auditor for regulatory The Committee discussed the auditors views on key reasons: and judgement areas and audit findings relating to key accounting Their use represents a material time cost benefit to the matters at the conclusion of the audit.
Areas that have been discussed and considered by the The policy also precludes the use of the external auditors for Committee in relation to the 2015 Annual Report are: certain types of work.
All such work will be fully analysed in the Annual Report between tax compliance and advisory, non Pensions We examined the assumptions used in the statutory acquisition related services and statutory services.
actuarial valuation for the defined benefit pension scheme If non-audit fees to be incurred with the external auditor are to which include the discount rate, the inflation rate and be in excess of 20 per cent of the audit fee, Audit Committee mortality.
We considered the consistency of the basis approval will be required prior to the work being commenced of calculation of the assumptions used with 2014, and and further disclosure of the works and the reasons for it agreed with the judgements reached by management.
being performed by the external auditors will be included in the following Annual Report.
The Audit Committee does not Acquisition of 36 locations from Laurel Funerals envisage that non-audit fees payable to the external auditors We considered the appropriateness of the accounting will exceed 50 per cent in the future, other than in exceptional treatment of the acquisition, including the allocation of circumstances.
goodwill and intangible trade names.
In the period, EY undertook no non-audit work on behalf of Pre-arranged funeral plans trusts The Committee considered the Group except for their review of the Interim Report for the on-going treatment of the trusts following the adoption 2015 and completion of turnover certificates and financial of IFRS 10 along with the additional disclosure requirements covenants compliance certificate.
Total fees of 40,000 were of IFRS 12. charged for the non-audit services compared to 0.2 million for audit services.
External audit The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, The Committee is confident that the objectivity and implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on independence of the external auditors is not compromised external audit.
This policy assigns responsibility for monitoring by reason of non-audit work, not least because such work will objectivity, independence and compliance with ethical and generally be undertaken by other professional firms.
A formal regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee with day to statement of independence from EY has been received in day responsibility assigned to the Finance Director, Steve respect of 2015.
The Committee also retains responsibility for the appointment and removal of the external auditors, who are currently EY.
Dignity plc 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee report continued Audit partner rotation Consistent with the Auditing Practices Board requirements, EY audit partners serve for a maximum of five years on listed clients.
This is the second year that Simon ONeill is Dignitys audit partner.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and is satisfied with their effectiveness.
The Audit Committee has also kept under review the independence of EY and has been satisfied at all times that any threats arising to their independence have been subject to appropriate safeguards.
Internal Audit The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports to the Chief Executive and the Audit Committee.
It coordinates the completion of self-assessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control weakness or exposure.
Internal audit reviews are completed on such areas together with selected areas of the head office function and any area where a Director or the Audit Committee requests a review.
During 2015 as in 2014, there were quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors formally to review and discuss Internal Audits work programme and findings.
In addition, regular meetings between Internal Audit and the external auditors, EY, were held during the year to discuss and plan audit work and to ensure a complementary approach.
The Head of Internal Audit provides reports to the Audit Committee at every full meeting and met on a one to one basis with me, as the Chairman of the Audit Committee or my predecessor Ishbel Macpherson on three occasions in the period.
Whistleblowing A formal process, established via the Committee, exists by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
This ensures arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action.
Whistleblowing reports are formally reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee or more frequently should the need arise.
The Whistleblowing Policy was reviewed and updated during the period and was presented to and formally adopted by the full Board of Dignity.
This Audit Committee report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 2 March 2016.
David Blackwood Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 March 2016
