Internal Control and Risk Management 34 The Board is committed to protecting and enhancing Diplomas Identifying and monitoring material risks reputation and assets, while safeguarding the interests of shareholders.
Material risks are identified through a detailed analysis of individual It has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management processes and procedures bottom up approach and a consideration and internal control.
of the strategy and operating environment of the Group top down approach.
Diplomas businesses are affected by a number of risks and uncertainties.
These may be impacted by internal and external factors, The detailed risk evaluation process begins in the operating some of which we cannot control.
Many of the risks are similar to those businesses with an annual exercise undertaken by management to found by comparable companies in terms of scale and operations.
identify and document the significant strategic, operational, financial and accounting risks facing the businesses.
This process is both robust Our approach and challenging and ensures risks are identified and monitored and Risk management and maintenance of appropriate systems of control management controls are embedded in the business operations.
to manage risk is the responsibility of the Board and is integral to the ability of the Group to deliver on its strategic priorities.
The Board has This year the Group has developed a quantitative method to developed a framework of risk management which is used to establish determine a Risk Score for each risk which is based on both the the culture of effective risk management throughout the business by likelihood of each identified risk occurring and the consequence of an identifying and monitoring the material risks, setting risk appetite and adverse outcome and its impact on the business.
Each business will determining the overall risk tolerance of the Group.
This framework of then identify processes established to control each risk and minimise risk management has been substantially enhanced this year and its potential impact.
additional processes have been developed which will assist the Board to monitor and assess the principal risks throughout the year.
The risk assessments from each of the operating businesses are then considered by the Board who evaluate the principal risks of the Group The Groups risk management systems are monitored by the Audit with reference to the Groups strategy and operating environment.
Committee, under delegation from the Board.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the effectiveness of the internal control Our principal risks and uncertainties environment of the Group.
An internal audit function has been Set out in this section of the Strategic Report are the principal risks and established for many years to provide independent assurance that the uncertainties affecting the Group which have been determined by the Groups risk management, governance and internal control processes Board, based on the robust risk evaluation process described above, to are operating effectively.
have the potential to have the greatest impact on the Groups future viability.
These risks are similar to those reported last year, although with some movement on the relative ranking of these risks and one new risk added relating to supplier strategy change.
The risks are each classified as strategic, operational and financial or accounting.
The Groups decentralised operations with different sectors and geographical spread reduces the impact of these principal risks.
Viability Statement Diploma PLC The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years to September 2018.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the resilience of the Group and its strong financial position, the Groups current strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed, as described in the Strategic Report.
The Group has a broad spread of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and independent market sectors, often secured with longer term agreements.
The Group is supported by a robust Balance Sheet and strong operational cash flows.
The assessment period of three years has been chosen as it is consistent with the Boards triennial review of the Groups strategy at which the prospects of each business are discussed: assumptions are made regarding entering into new markets and geographies, about future growth rates of the existing businesses and about the acceptable performance of existing businesses.
A robust financial model of the Group is built on a business by business basis and the metrics for the Groups KPIs are reviewed for the assessment period.
These metrics are also subject to sensitivity analysis which includes flexing a number of the main assumptions, namely, future revenue growth, gross margins, operating costs and working capital management.
The results of flexing these assumptions, both individually and in aggregate, are used to determine whether additional bank facilities will be required during this period.
This review and analysis also considers the principal risks facing the Group, as described on pages 35 to 37 and the potential impacts these risks would have on the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity over the assessment period.
The Board considers that the diverse nature of the Sectors and geographies in which the Group operates acts significantly to mitigate the impact any of these risks might have on the Group.. Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35 Relative movement within Group principal risks Strategic Risk Increased 1 Downturn in major markets Risk description & assessment Mitigation Adverse changes in the major markets in which the businesses operate can The businesses identify key market drivers and monitor the have a significant impact on performance.
The effects will either be seen in trends and forecasts, as well as maintaining close terms of slowing revenue growth, due to reduced or delayed demand for relationships with key customers who may give an early products and services, or margin pressures due to increased competition.
A number of characteristics of the Groups businesses moderate the impact of Changes to cost levels and inventories can then be made in a economic and business cycles on the Group as a whole: measured way to mitigate the effects.
The Groups businesses operate in three differing Sectors with different cyclical characteristics and across a number of geographic markets.
Significant global events are closely monitored to determine The businesses offer specialised products and services: this offers a degree any potential impact on key markets.
of protection against customers quickly switching business to achieve a better price.
A high proportion of the Groups revenues comprise consumable products which are purchased as part of customers operating expenditure, rather than through capital budgets.
In many cases the products are used in repair, maintenance and refurbishment applications, rather than original equipment manufacture.
Relative movement within Group principal risks Strategic Risk Unchanged 2 Loss of key suppliers Risk description & assessment Mitigation For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to the business if a major Long term, multi-year exclusive contracts signed with supplier decides to cancel a distribution agreement or if the supplier is suppliers with change of control clauses, where possible, acquired by a company which has its own distribution channels in the relevant included in contracts for protection or compensation in the market.
There is also the risk of a supplier taking away exclusivity and either event of acquisition.
setting up direct operations or appointing another distributor.
Collaborative projects and relationships maintained with In times of rapid economic expansion in activity, such as after a global individuals at many levels of the supplier organisation, recession, there is also a risk that the lead times to supply key products can together with regular review meetings and adherence to become very long.
Currently no single supplier represents more than 10% of contractual terms.
Group revenue and only seven single suppliers represent more than 2% each of Group revenue.
Regular review of inventory levels.
Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over many years and Bundling and kitting of products and provision of added value a strong degree of interdependence has been established.
of the principal supplier relationships in each of the Sectors is over ten years.
Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of The strength of the relationship with each supplier and the volume of activity contingency planning.
generally ensures continuity of supply, when there is shortage of product.
Relative movement within Group principal risks Strategic Risk Unchanged 3 Loss of key customer s Risk description & assessment Mitigation The loss of one or more major customers can be a material risk.
Specific large customers are important to individual operating businesses and a high level of effort invested in ensuring that The nature of the Groups businesses is such that there is not a high level of these customers are retained and encouraged not to switch dependence on any individual customer and no single customer represents to another supplier.
However, although important to more than 5% of Sector revenue or more than 2% of Group revenue.
individual operating businesses, loss of any single customer does not present a material risk to the Group.
In addition to providing high levels of customer service and value added activities, close integration is established where possible with customers systems and processes.
Internal Control and Risk Management continued 36 Relative movement within Group principal risks Strategic Risk New 4 Supplier strategy change Risk description & assessment Mitigation The success of the businesses depends significantly on representing suppliers The businesses work very closely with each of their suppliers whose products are recognised in the marketplace as the leading competitive and regularly attend industry exhibitions to keep abreast of brand.
If suppliers fail to support these products with new development and the latest technology and market requirements trends.
The technologies, then our businesses will suffer from reduced demand for their businesses also meet with key customers on a regular basis to products and services.
gain insight into their product requirements and market developments.
Each of the Groups businesses supply established and leading products and related services to customers operating in specialised markets.
Relative movement within Group principal risks Operational Risk Unchanged 5 Product liability Risk description & assessment Mitigation There is a risk that products supplied by a Group business may fail in service, Technically qualified personnel and control systems are in which could lead to a claim under product liability.
The businesses, in their place to ensure products meet quality requirements.
The Terms and Conditions of sale with customers, will typically mirror the Terms Groups businesses are required to undertake Product Risk and Conditions of purchase from the suppliers.
In this way the liability can be assessments and comprehensive Supplier Quality Assurance limited and subrogated to the supplier.
The Group has also established Group-wide product liability insurance which provides worldwide umbrella However, if a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our business as a party insurance cover of 20m in all Sectors.
to the claim and the business may be exposed to legal costs and potential damages if the claim succeeds and the supplier fails to meet its liabilities for The Groups businesses may also elect not to supply products whatever reason.
Product liability insurance can be limited in terms of its if they are not fully confident that the products will meet the scope of insurable events, such as product recall.
demands of the operating environment.
The Groups businesses have undergone further product liability training during the year and are continually reviewed to demonstrate compliance with Group policies and procedures relating to product liability.
Relative movement within Group principal risks Operational Risk Unchanged 6 Loss of key personnel Risk description & assessment Mitigation The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing management Contractual terms such as notice periods and non-compete teams in the operating businesses, committed to the success of their clauses can mitigate the risk in the short term.
As a result, the loss of key personnel can have a successful initiatives focus on ensuring a challenging work significant impact on performance, for a limited time period.
environment with appropriate reward systems.
The Group places very high importance on planning the development, As set out on page 38, the average length of service for all personnel in the motivation and reward for key managers in the operating Group is consistently over six years.
businesses including: Ensuring a challenging working environment where managers feel they have control over, and responsibility for their businesses.
Establishing management development programmes to ensure a broad base of talented managers.
Offering a balanced and competitive compensation package with a combination of salary, annual bonus and long term cash incentive plans targeted at the individual business level.
Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial resources and strategic support for managers to pursue ambitious growth plans.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37 Relative movement within Group principal risks Financial Risk Increased 7 Foreign currency Translational exposure Risk description & assessment Mitigation Foreign currency risk is the risk that changes in currency rates will affect the The Group operates across a number of diverse geographies Groups results.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign but does not hedge translational exposure.
exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar, the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the Euro.
The net assets of the Groups operations outside the UK are also exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
During the year ended 30 September 2015, ca.
75% of the Groups revenue and adjusted operating profits were earned in currencies other than UK sterling.
In comparison to the prior year, the net effect of currency translation was to decrease revenue by 8.1m and decrease adjusted operating profit by 1.6m.
It is estimated that a further strengthening of UK sterling by 10% against all the currencies in which the Group does business, would reduce adjusted operating profit before tax by approximately 4.6m 8%, due to currency translation.
Currency exposures also arise from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations.
At 30 September 2015, the Groups non-UK sterling trading capital employed in overseas businesses was 171.4m 2014: 137.9m, which represented 80% of the Groups trading capital employed.
It is estimated that a further strengthening of UK sterling of 10% against all the non-UK sterling capital employed would reduce shareholders funds by 15.6m.
Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of overseas earnings and of year end exchange rates used in the translation of overseas balance sheets, for the principal currencies used by the Group, are shown in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Relative movement within Group principal risks Financial Risk Increased 8 Foreign currency Transactional exposure Risk description & assessment Mitigation The Groups UK businesses are exposed to foreign currency risk on those The Groups businesses may hedge up to 80% of forecast purchases that are denominated in a currency other than their local currency, being a maximum of 18 months foreign currency principally US dollars, Euros and Japanese yen.
The Groups Canadian and exposures using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Australian businesses are also exposed to a similar risk as the majority of their purchases are denominated in US dollars and Euros.
The Groups US The Group finance department monitors rolling monthly businesses do not have any material foreign currency transactional risk.
The Group classifies its forward foreign exchange contracts, which hedge forecast transactions, as cash flow hedges and state them at fair value at each reporting period.
Relative movement within Group principal risks Accounting Risk Unchanged 9 Inventory obsolescence Risk description & assessment Mitigation Working capital management is critical to success in specialised industrial Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised by active businesses as this has a major impact on cash flow.
The principal risk to management of inventory levels based on sales forecasts and working capital is in inventory obsolescence and write-off.
The charge against operating profit in respect of old or surplus inventory in the Where necessary, a provision is made to cover both excess year was 1.5m but inventories are generally not subject to technological inventory and potential obsolescence.
