Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47 Audit Committee Report The Group comprises a set of wellmanaged businesses with ahealthy focus on monitoring risks and maintaining robust and effective systems of control.
Marie-Louise Clayton, Chairman of the Audit Committee Members of Committee: Attendance There were no particularly subjective accounting issues for the Committee to consider this year: those matters that do entail a higher Marie-Louise Clayton Chairman 6 6 degree of judgement are set out later in this Report of the Audit John Nicholas retired on 21 January 2015 2 2 Committee and remain unchanged from last year.
The Committee Charles Packshaw 6 6 discussed these matters with the auditor and was satisfied that the Andy Smith appointed on 9 February 2015 4 4 Groups approach remained prudent and conservative.
Anne Thorburn appointed on 7 September 2015 1 1 The Committee continued to liaise closely with the Companys auditor Dear Shareholder and met him alone several times to review the results of the Group In my final report to you as Chair of the Committee, I am pleased to and discuss meetings they had held with Group businesses and PLC report that the Committee made good progress in carrying out a management as part of their audit of the financial statements.
The comprehensive work programme to ensure that it meets the increasing Committee also met regularly with the Internal Audit Manager and was depth of review and reporting that is now required of Audit Committees.
closely involved in recruiting his successor during the summer.
This years work was focused on working with the Board to develop I am pleased that in passing my role to Anne I can be confident that the the risk framework of the Group, in light of the new provisions in the Group comprises a set of well managed businesses with a healthy focus UK Corporate Governance Code and in particular on challenging on monitoring risks and a keen interest in maintaining robust and management on the effectiveness of the internal systems of control.
The Committee, with the help of reports from the Internal Audit Manager, remains satisfied that the control systems operating within Marie-Louise Clayton the businesses are generally strong.
As importantly, the Committee 16 November 2015 was also pleased to learn from reports from both the Internal Audit Manager and external auditor that there is a culture across the businesses to get things right first time and where possible improve processes, controls and reporting efficiencies.
Key Duties Full terms of reference are available on the Companyswebsite.
Monitors policy on external auditor supplying non-audit services.
Monitors fraud reports and operation of the Companys Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and Whistleblowing and anti-Bribery and Corruption policies.
assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to external financial reporting and similar announcements, including Half Year Reviews effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and makes and Annual financial statements and quarterly trading updates.
Reviews key accounting and auditing issues.
Approves the Internal Audit work programme and reviews the results of the work undertaken.
Reviews the Groups internal control systems and risk management procedures.
Reviews the basis on which the Company and its principal subsidiaries continue to prepare their financial statements on a Recommends appointment and or reappointment of the external going concern basis.
auditor and approves their terms of engagement.
Reports to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Reviews and monitors independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Audit Committee Report continued 48 Audit Committee Audit Committee Agenda 2015 The Committee is chaired by Marie-Louise Clayton and comprises independent non-Executive Directors.
The Chair of the Committee and Reviewed and agreed the scope of work to be undertaken by the Anne Thorburn are both qualified accountants, who have recent and external auditor and agreed the terms of engagement and fees to relevant financial experience.
be paid for the external audit.
On appointment as the Chairman of the Company, John Nicholas Reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts and received reports resigned from the Audit Committee on 21 January 2015 in accordance from the Group Finance Director and the external auditor on the with good governance practice, but continues to attend meetings at the key accounting issues and areas of significant judgement.
Andy Smith was appointed to the Reviewed the processes necessary to ensure that the Board Committee on 9 February 2015 and Anne Thorburn was appointed on was able to confirm that the Annual Report & Accounts are 7 September 2015.
Anne will become Chair of the Committee on fair, balanced and understandable.
17 November 2015, when Marie-Louise Clayton retires from the Board.
Reviewed the report from the Group Finance Director on the The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The controls in place to mitigate fraud risk.
Executive Directors also attend Committee meetings and the Internal Audit Manager also attended two Committee meetings.
The Committee Reviewed the Trading Updates at meetings held in January, March met with the external auditor and Internal Audit Manager during the year, and September.
without the Executive Directors being present.
Invited the Internal Audit Manager to attend meetings in September and January to review the results of the Internal Audit Engagement of the external auditor work for the current year and to agree the scope and focus of The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial Internal Audit work to be carried out in the following year.
statements of the Group and of the Company.
The audit includes the review and testing of the systems of internal financial control and the data Reviewed the Half Year Announcement and received reports from contained in the financial statements, to the extent necessary the Group Finance Director and the external auditor on the key forexpressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the accounting issues and areas of significant judgement.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management procedures and, where appropriate, made Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditor since its appointment in recommendations to the Board on areas for improvement.
Deloitte LLP provides the Committee with relevant reports, reviews and advice throughout the year, as set out in their terms of Reviewed the Groups policy on anti-Bribery and Corruption and engagement.
the procedures in place to ensure compliance across the Group.
Reviewed the scope of sanctions issued by the European Union In accordance with UK regulations, the Companys auditor adheres to a and the US and the procedures being followed by the Groups rotation policy based on best practice and a new Group lead engagement businesses to monitor compliance.
partner was appointed in 2013 in place of the previous lead engagement partner who had completed a term of five years in that role.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process and recommended the reappointment of the Groups external During the year, the Committee carried out an assessment of the auditors.
effectiveness of the external audit process.
The assessment was led by the Chair of the Committee, assisted by the Group Finance Director and Reviewed the Groups policy on whistleblowing.
focused on certain criteria which the Committee considered to be Reviewed the Groups policy on non-audit services which may be important factors in demonstrating an effective audit process.
These provided by the auditor.
factors included the quality of audit staff, the planning and execution of the audit and the role of management in the audit process.
Following this Reviewed the Audit Committee terms of reference.
assessment, the Committee concluded that the external audit process remained effective and that it provides an appropriate independent challenge of the Groups senior management.
The Committee remains satisfied that Deloitte continues to provide arobust and effective audit and supports the work of the Committee through clear and objective communication on developments in financial reporting and governance.
In 2016, the Committee will be reviewing the Companys audit tender timetable and processes as part of a wider review of the Competition & Markets Authority Order which was effective from 1January 2015 and in preparation for the audit tender which will likely be carried out before the end of 2017.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49 Financial reporting and significant judgements the Groups two pension scheme arrangements, accounted for in As part of its monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, the accordance with IAS19 Revised and the Groups taxation position.
Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates Risk management and internal control and judgements and seeks support from the external auditors to The principal risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to assess them.
have the most significant impact on the Groups long term performance are set out in a separate section of the Strategic Report on Internal The main issues reviewed in the year ended 30 September 2015 are set Control and Risk Management on pages 34 to 37. out below: The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Impairment of goodwill: Groups system of internal control.
The system of internal control is The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill and the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve assumptions underlying the impairment review.
The judgements in business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute relation to goodwill impairment largely relate to the assumptions assurance against material misstatement or loss.
underlying the calculations of the value in use of the business or Sector being tested for impairment.
These judgements are primarily the The Board has established a clear organisational structure with defined calculation of the discount rate, the achievability of long term business authority levels.
The day-to-day running of the Groups business is plans and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation delegated to the Executive Directors of the Company.
This area is a prime sourceof audit focus and accordingly the Directors visit each operating unit on a regular basis and meet with both external auditor provided detailed reporting to theCommittee.
operational and finance management and staff.
Accounting for acquisitions: Key financial and operational measures relating to revenues, cash and The Committee reviewed the accounting for acquisitions completed receivables are reported on a weekly basis.
Detailed management during the year and the assumptions underlying the valuation of accounts and KPIs are prepared monthly using a robust proprietary intangible assets.
They discussed the nature of the intangible assets reporting system to collect and analyse financial data in a consistent with the Group Finance Director and the period over which these assets format.
Monthly results are measured against both budget and half year were to be amortised.
The Committee also discussed with the external reforecasts which have been approved and reviewed by the Board.
All auditor the work they had carried out to satisfy themselves that the capital expenditure above predefined amounts must be supported by a valuation assumptions were appropriate.
paper prepared by business management.
Valuation of inventory: All financial data is taken directly from the trial balances of each business The Committee reviewed the Report of the Group Finance Director that held in their local ERP systems and re-analysed and formatted for Group set out the gross balances by business, together with any related reporting purposes.
There is no re-keying of financial data and very provision against the carrying value.
The Committee reviewed the limited use is made of spreadsheets by Group businesses to report bases used to value and confirm existence of inventory held across the monthly financial results.
The Groups internal auditor regularly audits Group: they also considered the appropriateness of provisions held the base data at each business to ensure it is correctly collected by the against the carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age and management reporting system.
volumes of inventory, relative to expected usage.
This matter was also discussed with the external auditor.
As part of the year end close process each business is required to complete a self-assessment which evaluates their financial control environment in Recoverability of trade receivables: the business designed to identify weaknesses in controls.
These The Committee reviewed the Report of the Group Finance Director that assessments are critically reviewed by the Groups Internal Audit Manager set out the gross balances by business, together with any related and a summary for each business is prepared for the Audit Committee.
provision against the carrying value.
The Committee reviewed the report of work done by the external auditor on trade receivables to The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk confirm both existence and recoverability: the appropriateness management and internal control systems for the period from 1 of provisions held against the carrying value of accounts receivable October 2014 to the date of this Report.
Taking into account the were also considered, having regard to the age and creditworthiness of matters set out on pages 34 to 37 relating to principal risks and the customer.
These matters were also discussed with the Group uncertainties and the reports from the Internal Audit Manager, the Finance Director and the external auditor.
Board, with the advice of the Committee, is satisfied that the Group has in place effective risk management and internal control systems.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out above had been fully and adequately addressed by the Executive Directors, Internal audit appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and that the The Groups finance department includes a separate Internal Audit disclosures made in the Annual Report & Accounts were appropriate.
This function is managed by a qualified internal auditor who is based in one of the Groups businesses in Minneapolis in the US.
The In addition to the main issues reviewed above, the Committee also internal auditor remains a member of the Group management team in seeks confirmation from the auditor that the Groups businesses follow Diploma PLC and reports directly to both the Group Finance Director appropriate policies to recognise material streams of revenue and that and Chair of the Audit Committee.
During the year, the previous Internal the audit work carried out more generally has assessed any instances Audit Manager transferred to a new finance role in the Group and was where management may be able to override key internal controls replaced by an experienced qualified internal auditor recruited from designed to guard against fraud or material misstatement.
The auditor outside the Group.
also reports to the Committee on other less material matters relating to Audit Committee Report continued 50 A full programme of internal audit visits has been completed during The Committee assures itself of the auditors independence the year.
The scope of work carried out by internal audit generally by receiving regular reports which provide details of any assignments focuses on the internal financial controls and risk management and related fees carried out by the auditor in addition to their normal procedures operating within each business.
In January, the Internal audit work, and these are reviewed against the above guidelines.
Audit Manager presents his audit plan for the year to the Committee for their approval.
Written reports are prepared on the results of each visit Details of the external auditors total fees, including non-audit fees of which set out weaknesses identified during the work, together with 12,000 paid to Deloitte LLP during the year are set out in note 27 to the recommendations to improve the control environment.
are reviewed and discussed with the Executive Directors.
Sanctions At the conclusion of the financial year, the Internal Audit Manager Following the acquisition of Kentek in 2014, a specialised distributor of reports to the Committee on the results of the audit work carried out filters with substantial operations in Russia and the Baltic States, the in the year.
The Committee reviews managements response to Audit Committee worked with senior management of the Company, in matters raised, including the time taken to resolve such matters.
There conjunction with local management of Kentek, to determine the scope were no significant matters identified in the internal audits undertaken and reach of EU and US led sanctions and implemented a system to during the year, but recommendations were made in relation to ensure ongoing compliance with this new sanctions regime.
The formalising month end close procedures, policies for inventory Committee has received reports on compliance with these sanctions provisioning and controls over supplier master file data.
As well as and will continue to monitor developments until the sanctions are carrying out the normal work on financial contracts, the scope of suspended or revoked.
internal audit work this year was extended to include controls operating over ERP systems recently implemented, over foreign currency hedging Anti-Bribery and Whistleblowing policies and procedures being followed to ensure compliance with Diploma has a Group-wide anti-Bribery and Corruption policy to comply international sanctions.
with the Bribery Act 2010 and it periodically reviews its procedures to ensure continued effective compliance in its businesses around the world.
The Internal Audit Manager also continues to assist the Committee in During the year, the Group rolled out an e-learning training programme to its oversight of the Groups controls designed to ensure compliance all its businesses.
This training has been undertaken by all senior with the policy on anti-Bribery and Corruption.
management and employees in customer or supplier facing roles.
It is intended that these training programmes will be regularly carried out and The Internal Audit Manager reported to the Committee that good that the e-learning training programme will be extended to encompass progress had been made by the Groups businesses in implementing other regulatory and compliance based topics, including Code of recommendations communicated last year and in particular in Conduct.
improving procedures operating over the completeness and sufficiency of cycle counts of inventories and to ensuring that the procedures for During the year, the Committee updated the Groups Whistleblowing chasing older receivable balances remained robust.
Policy, which provides the framework to encourage and give employees confidence to blow the whistle and report irregularities.
Employees are The Committee continues to keep under review the need for a more encouraged to raise concerns with designated individuals, including the independent Internal Audit function in the Group.
The Committee Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary or the Chair of the remains satisfied that the Groups system of internal control is Audit Committee.
All such reports are investigated and reported to the appropriate for a group of the size and nature of Diploma PLC and the Committee, together with details of corrective action taken.
The Groups Committees current view is that a separate formal independent Internal Whistleblowing Policy is monitored by the Committee and no matters Audit function is not required at this time.
were reported to the Committee under this policy during the year.
Non-audit fees In September, the Committee initiated action to introduce a dedicated The Committee has established a set of guidelines covering the type telephone hotline service to be provided by an independent service ofnon-audit work that can be assigned to the external auditor.
These provided across the Groups businesses, with the aim of further guidelines were reviewed and updated last year and relate to advisory encouraging whistleblowing.
services where the auditors detailed knowledge of the Groups affairs means that it may be best placed to carry out such work.
This extends to, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, regulatory reports, and on occasions, work in connection with disposals.
The external auditor may only provide such services where these do not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
Work in connection with acquisitions, including due diligence reviews, is not provided by the auditor, but is placed with other firms.
Taxation services are generally not provided by the auditor: a separate firmis retained to provide tax advice, including any assistance with tax compliance matters generally.
In other circumstances, proposed assignments are generally put out to tender and decisions to award work taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
