56 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Letter from the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Company Secretary Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, we are pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year ended 30 June 2015.
The purpose of this report is to explain how Diageo is directed and controlled by your Board and to summarise the corporate governance activity that has taken place during the year.
In addition to its overall responsibility for corporate governance, the Boards duties include setting the companys strategy and values and overseeing and supporting management in their day to day running of the business.
We continue to believe that your Board demonstrates the appropriate behaviours and has the diversity, skills, independence and knowledge of the business to enable it to successfully discharge its duties.
The principal corporate governance rules applying to Diageo as a UK company listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 30 June 2015 are contained in The UK Corporate Governance Code as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 the Code and the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules, which require us to describe, in our Annual Report, our corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing generally with our application of the Codes main principles and the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good practice.
Throughout the year, Diageo has complied with all relevant provisions set out in the Code, which is publicly available under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the FRC, www.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules contained in the FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it applies to foreign private issuers, is continually monitored.
As Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice, differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards are summarised in Diageos 20-F filing and on our website at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Dr Franz B Humer Paul D Tunnacliffe Chairman Company Secretary Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Performance evaluation BOARD OF DIRECTORS As reported last year, an externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, including the effectiveness of the Audit, the Remuneration and the Nomination Committees, continued into the Membership of the Board and Board Committees subsequent financial year.
The external facilitator, Wickland Westcott, The Chairman, Senior Non-Executive Director and other members has no other connection with the company.
of the Board, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and A report was prepared and presented, with the conclusion that Remuneration Committee are as set out in this Annual Report in the the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively, biographies of Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
meeting the requirements and spirit of the Code.
The climate within There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the the Board, its capability and the diversity of Board members, were Chief Executive.
The Chairman, Dr Franz B Humer, is responsible for seen as significant factors which contributed to the Boards the running of the Board and for ensuring all Directors are fully effectiveness during the year.
informed of matters, sufficient to make informed judgements.
As There were, nevertheless, areas identified as being of a particular Chief Executive, Ivan Menezes has responsibility for implementing the focus: the relationship between the Board and the new executive strategy agreed by the Board and for managing the company and team, with an aim for the Board to continue to support and mentor the group.
He is supported in this role by the Executive Committee.
the team: ensuring sufficient time was allocated to undertake The Non-Executive Directors, all of whom the Board has determined scenario planning, to generate insight and advantage: the are independent, are experienced and influential individuals from understanding of and the deepening of the Boards relationships a range of industries, backgrounds and countries.
No individual or with the Companys shareholders: and on emerging market volatility, group dominates the Boards decision-making processes.
particularly the markets where there is the potential of significant external volatility or risks.
A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the Without being complacent, the Board was considered to be in Non-Executive Directors is available at www.
good shape to deal with these and support management in its aspirations to deliver the Performance Ambition.
Activities and duties of the Board A similar, internal, exercise building on this evaluation and covering The Board manages overall control of the companys affairs with the evaluation of the Board and its Committees started during the reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for year and has continued into the subsequent financial year.
The schedule was last reviewed in July 2015 and is available at will be prepared for the Board for consideration at its next meeting.
The results of the evaluation will be reported in next years report.
The Board has agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for The Chairman has confirmed that the Non-Executive Directors dealing with conflicts of interest and responsibility for authorising standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform conflicts of interest is included in the schedule of matters reserved for effectively, both individually and collectively as a Board, and that each the Board.
The Board confirmed that it was aware of no situations demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The senior Non-Executive that may or did give rise to conflicts with the interests of the Director led a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Feedback company other than those that may arise from Directors other was discussed in a meeting with the Executive and Non-Executive appointments as disclosed in their biographies.
Directors and then privately with the Chairman.
In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for Directors It is the Boards intention to continue to review annually its to seek both independent advice and the advice and services of the performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Non-Executive Nomination Committee Directors meet without the Chairman present, and also meet with Role of the Nomination Committee the Chairman without management present, on a regular basis.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for keeping under review the composition of the Board and succession to it, and succession The terms of reference of Board Committees are available at planning for senior leadership positions.
to the Board concerning appointments to the Board.
Any new Directors are appointed by the Board and, in accordance Induction, training and business engagement with the companys articles of association, they must be elected at There is a formal induction programme for new Directors, which was followed during the year for Nicola Mendelsohn and Alan Stewart.
the next AGM to continue in office.
All existing Directors retire by This included meeting with Executive Committee members and rotation every year.
other senior executives individually and visiting the Supply operations Activities of the Nomination Committee in Scotland and the customer collaboration centre in the UK.
The principal activities of the Nomination Committee during the year Following the initial induction for Non-Executive Directors, were: the consideration of potential new Non-Executive Directors, in a continuing understanding of the business is developed through light of the review of the structure and composition of the Board: the appropriate business engagements.
Visits to customers, engagements review of individual Director performance: a review of the Executive with employees, and brand events were arranged during the year.
Committee membership and succession planning for it and for senior In addition, Executive Committee members and other senior leadership positions, in addition to a review of diversity within the group.
executives are invited, as appropriate, to Board and strategy meetings In respect of the appointment of Emma Walmsley the recruitment to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
process included the development of a candidate profile and the All Directors are also provided with the opportunity, and engagement of a professional search agency which has no other encouraged, to attend regular training to ensure they are kept up to connection with the Company specialising in the recruitment of date on relevant legal developments or changes and best practice high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Reports on potential and changing commercial and other risks.
appointees were provided to the committee, which, after careful consideration, made a recommendation to the Board.
58 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Diversity The company has in place internal control and risk management Diageo supports diversity within its Board of Directors, including systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process and gender diversity.
Further information is given in the section of this the groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
Further, Annual Report on sustainability & responsibility, our people.
a review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Remuneration Committee group are appropriately reflected therein.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The role of the Remuneration Committee and details of how the Compliance and ethics programme company applies the principles of the Code in respect of Directors Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive may, by invitation, attend activities are subject.
We hold ourselves to the principles in our Code Remuneration Committee meetings, except when their own of Business Conduct, which is embedded through a comprehensive remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved in determining his training and education programme for all employees.
Our Code of Business Conduct, which was reviewed and updated during the year in preparation for launch in the next financial year, and other Diageo global policies are available at www.
com en-row EXECUTIVE DIRECTION ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
ANDCONTROL In accordance with the requirements of SOX and related SEC rules, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics covering its Chief Executive, Executive Committee Chief Financial Officer, presidents and other identifiable persons in The Executive Committee, appointed and chaired by the Chief the group, including those performing senior accounting and Executive, supports him in discharging his responsibility for controller functions.
No amendments to, or waivers in respect of, implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing the code of ethics were made during the year.
the company and the group.
It consists of the individuals responsible for the key components The full text of the code of ethics is available at www.
com en-row of the business: North America, Europe, Africa, Latin America and ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Caribbean, Asia Pacific, International Supply Centre and the global functions.
Both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee regularly The Executive Committee focuses its time and agenda to align with review the strategy and operation of the compliance and ethics the Performance Ambition and how to achieve the performance programme through the year.
Further information is given in the section of this Annual Report imperatives.
Performance metrics have been developed to measure progress and a further designated focus is on the companys reputation.
on sustainability & responsibility, governance & ethics.
In support, monthly performance delivery calls, involving the senior Relations with shareholders leadership group, focus on progress against the six performance drivers.
The Boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through To support the market visits made by the presidents in the ordinary the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Executive and course of their business, a small group led by the Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer are supported by the investor relations makes regular market visits focused on the execution of strategy and department, who are in regular contact with institutional shareholders designed to assist in continuing the development of strategy and in and sell-side analysts.
A monthly investor relations report, including the delivery of performance against the Performance Ambition.
coverage of the company by sell-side analysts, is circulated to the Board.
The Board also ensures that all Directors develop an understanding Committees appointed by the Chief Executive and intended to have an ongoing remit, including the Audit & Risk Committee, Finance Committee of the views of major institutional shareholders through an independent and Filings Assurance Committee are shown with their remits at survey of shareholder opinion.
In addition, major shareholders are www.
invited to raise any company matters of interest to them at meetings with the chairman and the chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Additional information Reports on any meetings are made to the Board.
Internal control and risk management Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman or any An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating other Director and express their views on any issues of concern at any and managing risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies time and the AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders with the requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full to put their questions in person.
financial year and up to the date the financial statements were approved and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Political donations Reporting Council in October 2005, Internal Control: Revised The group has not given any money for political purposes in the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, also known as the United Kingdom and made no donations to EU political organisations Turnbull guidance as amended by the Flint review.
and incurred no EU political expenditure during the year.
The group The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the companys made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.5 million systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their during the year 2014 0.4 million.
The Board confirms that, through the activities of the These contributions were made, almost exclusively, to federal and Audit Committee described below, it has reviewed the effectiveness state candidates and committees in North America consistent with of the companys systems of internal control and risk management.
applicable laws, where it is common practice to make political During the year, in line with the Code, the Board considered the contributions.
No particular political persuasion was supported and nature and extent of the risks it was willing to take to achieve its contributions were made with the aim of promoting a better strategic goals and reviewed the existing internal statement of risk understanding of the group and its views on commercial matters, appetite which was considered and recommended to the Board by as well as a generally improved business environment.
both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Going concern The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they financial statements have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Further information on going law and regulations.
concern is given in this Annual Report under note 1 Accounting Responsibility statement information and policies going concern.
Each of the Directors, whose names are set out in the Board of Directors and Executive Committee section of this Annual Report, Managements report on internal control over financial reporting Management, under the supervision of the Chief Executive and Chief confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2015, taken as adequate control over the groups financial reporting.
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13 a -13 f and performance, business model and strategy: 15 d -15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued by Report for the year ended 30 June 2015, which have been the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as Commission COSO in 2013.
Based on this assessment, management adopted for use in the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, concluded that, as at 30 June 2015, internal control over financial liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and reporting was effective.
the management report represented by the Directors report During the period covered by this report, there were no changes contained in the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2015 in internal control over financial reporting that have materially includes a fair review of the development and performance of the affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness business and the position of the group, together with a description of internal control over financial reporting.
of the principal risks and uncertainties that the group faces.
KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who also audit the groups consolidated financial statements, has The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors audited the effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial on 29 July 2015. reporting, and has issued an unqualified report thereon, which will be included in the companys Form 20-F to be filed with the SEC.
Directors attendance record at the AGM, scheduled Board meetings and Board committee meetings, for the year ended 30 June 2015 was as set out in the table below.
For Board and Board committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number that each Director was eligible to attend.
Annual Audit Nomination Remuneration General Meeting Board Committee Committee Committee iii 2014 maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 3 maximum 6 i i Dr Franz B Humer 6 6 4 4 3 3 6 6 ii i ii Ivan Menezes 6 6 2 2 3 3 6 6 i ii Deirdre Mahlan 6 6 4 4 n a 1 1 Lord Davies 6 6 4 4 3 3 6 6 Peggy Bruzelius 5 6 3 4 3 3 5 6 Laurence Danon 6 6 4 4 3 3 6 6 Betsy Holden 6 6 4 4 3 3 6 6 Ho KwonPing 6 6 4 4 3 3 5 6 Nicola Mendelsohn 4 5 3 3 1 2 4 5 Philip Scott 6 6 4 4 3 3 6 6 Alan Stewart 4 5 2 3 2 2 4 5 i Attended by invitation.
ii Attended by invitation, for part only.
iii Two non-scheduled Board calls were held during the year, in relation to financial matters.
Where Non-Executive Directors were unable to attend a meeting they gave their views to the Chairman of the respective meetings ahead of the meetings being held.
Nicola Mendelsohn was unable to attend the 2014 AGM as a result of another engagement which was arranged prior to her appointment.
Sub-Committee meetings of the Audit Committee were also held involving P G Scott, P B Bruzelius and A JH Stewart.
