Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51 Nomination Committee Report Members of Committee Attendance Key Duties John Rennocks retired on 21 January 2015 1 1 John Nicholas appointed Chairman on 21 January 2015 3 3 Full terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Marie-Louise Clayton 3 3 Charles Packshaw 3 3 Reviews the size, composition and structure of the Board and the Andy Smith appointed on 9 February 2015 1 1 Board Committees.
Anne Thorburn appointed on 7 September 2015 Ensures the right balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Nicholas, the Chairman of the Company who succeeded John Rennocks on his retirement on 21 Identifies, evaluates and nominates candidates to fill Board and January 2015.
The Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Committee vacancies.
Director on any matter concerning the chairmanship of the Company.
Reviews succession planning for the Board and senior executives, The Committee comprises the non-Executive Directors.
taking account of experience, knowledge, skills and diversity.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Reviews the Group policy on conflicts of interest and register and ensures there are no material conflicts of interest.
Appointment of Directors Reviews, as part of the annual evaluation exercise, the As part of any appointment process for new Directors, the Committee timecommitment of non-Executive Directors to the role determines the selection criteria for each Director which takes account andexternally.
of diversity, including gender and sets out a detailed description of the requirements for the role.
The Committee works with external search agencies as appropriate, who draw up a long list of candidates from a Agenda 2015 range of industries and backgrounds for initial appraisal by the Committee.
From this, a shortlist is prepared of suitable candidates that most closely meet the selection criteria and these candidates are Completed the process for Chairman succession.
interviewed by members of the Committee.
Following these Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the interviews, the Committee recommends to the Board the appointment Board and its diversity, including gender.
As part of this process the Committee ensures that it follows the Boards policy on diversity, described on page 45.
Carried out searches with Norman Broadbent LLP and with JCA Group for two further non-Executive Directors and prepared a In anticipation of the succession of the Chairman, Norman Broadbent description of the role and capabilities for candidates for LLP were appointed to search for a new non-Executive Director with the appointment.
remit from the Committee that the candidate should have broad Considered succession planning in relation to the Executive industrial experience gained in an international environment.
Following Directors and senior management.
the appointment process described above, the Board appointed Andy Smith as an independent non-Executive Director.
Andys induction is Reviewed and recommended appointment of Senior Independent substantially complete, having met with each of the main businesses in Director and changes to membership of Committees.
Europe and the US and participated in the Board Strategy meeting.
Reviewed and updated Board members register of conflicts of interest.
During the year under review Marie-Louise Claytons three year term of office expired.
An external search for a new non-Executive Director commenced with JCA Group, again with a remit from the Committee that the candidate should have strong Board level finance experience gained in international industrial businesses.
Having followed the appointment process described above, Anne Thorburn joined the Board on 7 September 2015 as an independent non-Executive Director and will become Chairman of the Audit Committee on 17 November 2015 on the retirement of Marie-Louise Clayton.
Anne has begun her induction programme and will complete this with visits to the larger businesses in 2016.
Norman Broadbent LLP and JCA Group have no other connection with the Company.
Succession planning At the strategy meeting held in June 2015, the Board reviewed succession planning for the Executive Directors and for the senior management cadre comprising ca.
90 senior managers across the Groups businesses.
At this meeting the Board agreed with the Chief Executive Officer to establish an Executive Management Group of key senior managers who will have the potential to provide leadership in the future.
This initiative forms a key part of the Boards succession planning and will be pursued further in 2016.
