Dignity plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Board of Directors Peter Hindley Mike McCollum NonExecutive Chairman Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: 2004 Appointed to the Board: 2004 Background and experience: Background and experience: Peter has extensive experience of Mike joined Dignitys former parent, The Boards overarching the industry having been appointed SCI, in 1995 from KPMG Corporate objective is to provide effective Chief Executive of Plantsbrook Group Finance in London.
As Finance leadership to the Group and is plc in 1991.
He subsequently led a Director he was part of the management buy out of Dignity in management team that guided the responsible for its long-term 2002.
The Company was then floated Group through the leveraged buy out success.
He was became Non-Executive Chairman in appointed Chief Executive in 2009.
Before entering the He has a law degree from Birmingham NonExecutive Chairman funeral service industry, Peter held a University, is a solicitor and also holds number of senior positions in retailing.
an MBA from Warwick University.
Peter was appointed Chairman of the Steering Committee of the External appointments: French funerals group OGF, SA in Non-Executive Director of January 2014.
Andrew Davies Richard Portman Steve Whittern Finance Director Operations Director Corporate Services Director Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2004 Appointed to the Board: 2006 Background and experience: Background and experience: Background and experience: Steve joined the Group in 1999 from Andrew joined his family owned Richard joined SCI from HSBC as KPMG.
He was appointed Finance business in 1979 and worked Chief Accountant in 1999.
Following Director at the beginning of 2009, as a funeral director and embalmer the IPO, Richard was appointed as having spent the previous two years as until the business was sold to Great Company Secretary and became Financial Controller, being responsible Southern Group in 1993.
He then held Corporate Services Director in 2006. for the Groups finance function.
various management positions within Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of Steve has led the three refinancings Great Southern Group and following Chartered Accountants in England and and Returns of Cash since 2010, and the acquisition by SCI in 1994, held Wales, holds a geography degree from the debt and equity funding for the senior operational positions within SCI Birmingham University, is a Fellow of Yew Acquisition in 2013.
He became Operations Director the Chartered Management Institute Fellow of the Institute of Chartered in 2001 and was a member of the and is a Member of the Investor Accountants in England and Wales management buy out team in 2002.
He is also one of the and holds a mathematics degree Trustees of the Dignity Welfare Trust.
External appointments: External appointments: None.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41 Alan McWalter David Blackwood Senior Independent Director NonExecutive Director Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2015 Board Committee Membership Background and experience: Background and experience: as at 25 December 2015 Alan is Non-Executive Chairman David was previously Chief Financial of Churchill China plc, Belfield Officer of Synthomer plc, a global Audit Remuneration Nomination Furnishings Ltd and Senior specialty chemicals business.
Prior to Committee Committee Committee Independent Director of SDL PLC.
that he spent twenty years with ICI plc, Prior to these roles Alan was Group where he held a number of senior Peter Marketing Director of Marks and finance roles.
He has previously served Hindley Spencer plc and before that held on the Audit and Risk committee of Alan senior positions with Kingfisher plc the Cabinet Office, and as a member McWalter and Thomson Consumer Electronics.
of the FRCs Board for Actuarial Standards.
He is a Chartered David Accountant ICAEW and a Fellow Blackwood of the Association of Corporate Jane Treasurers FCT.
Ashcroft Martin Pexton Chairman Member Composition of the Board The Board comprises eight Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman.
There are the same number of independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors which the Board considers to be an appropriate and effective combination and also complies with the Code in respect of FTSE 250 listed companies.
Jane Ashcroft CBE Martin Pexton Executive and Non-Executive Tenure NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Non-Executive Directors Appointed to the Board: 2012 Appointed to the Board: 2012 4 3 Background and experience: Background and experience: 4 1 1 Jane is Chief Executive of Anchor, a Martin was previously Managing leading provider of services to older Director of LMS Capital plc and prior 0 3 years Executive Directors people and has held a number of to that an Executive Director of 3 6 years Non-Executive Directors senior positions since joining them London Merchant Securities plc and Non-Executive Chairman in 1999.
She is also Non-Executive Personnel Director of the law firm Director of Care England, Vice Chair of Allen & Overy.
He has also in the past the associated Retirement Community held a number of non-executive Operators and was previously a Nonpositions including roles with Minerva Executive Chair of Stroud & Swindon plc and Inflexion plc as well as a Building Society.
A graduate of Stirling number with private companies.
University, she is a Fellow of the He has an MBA from the London Institute of Chartered Secretaries Business School.
& Administrators, a Member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Links Development, a Trustee of Silver Line and was created a CBE in the 2014 See Audit Committee report: p. 46 to p. 48 New Years honours list.
See Nomination Committee report: p. 49 See Report on Directors remuneration: p. 50 to p. 62
