S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t G Go ov ver ernanc finance e F Financial sta inancial stat temen ements ts A Additional inf dditional infor orma mation f tion for shar or shareholders eholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 39 SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW: LEADERSHIP IN ALCOHOL IN SOCIETY the industry, work together.
Our approach is LEADERSHIP IN ALCOHOL built around providing consumers with IN SOCIETY information: promoting rigorous company and PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS industry standards for responsible marketing: supporting effective programmes and partnerships to tackle alcohol misuse: and Responsible drinking programmes advocating effective, evidence-based policy.
i 29 8 vs 373 in 2014 Providing consumer information i In shifting our focus towards the Global Producers In March 2015, we announced our Commitments, we supported fewer programmes this commitment to provide consumers with year, and in line with our 2020 target, we are prioritising impact, which involves supporting fewer but more alcohol content and nutrition information effective programmes.
per typical serve a first for any alcohol company.
We intend to provide this Our brands are made with pride, and made information through Diageos responsible to be enjoyed responsibly.
com, and or moderately and responsibly by adults who on-pack in a majority of Diageos markets, REDUCING ALCOHOL-RELATED choose to drink, alcohol can be part of a subject to local regulatory approval.
HARM: DRINK RIGHT, JAMAICA balanced lifestyle, and play a positive role Furthermore, the Diageo Alcohol Increasingly, were using studies to in social occasions and celebrations.
Beverage Information Policy DABIP provides support, evaluate and report on the The misuse of alcohol, however, can cause mandatory minimum standards for the impact of our programmes, so we can serious problems for individuals, communities information that must be included on labels keep learning and keep improving.
We care passionately about and packaging, including at least one and up This year we studied the efficacy of reducing alcohol-related harm through our to three responsible drinking symbols, a link our Drink Right programme in Jamaica.
own programmes and through partnership to DRINKiQ.
com, alcohol content, a list of Alongside a range of partnership and and collaboration with others and we seek to allergens, and recycling symbols.
The DABIP public policy initiatives, Drink Right provide consumers with the information and mandatory elements will be in place on all reaches consumers with responsible tools they need to make informed choices Diageo-owned brands in all markets where drinking messages through social media about drinking or not drinking.
and television, radio and print.
The legally permitted by the end of December campaign also provides training to 2017.
com site, Reducing alcohol-related harm retailers, promotes the We ID available in multiple languages, already Diageo shares the goal set by the World Health programme to deter underage drinking, includes a wealth of information about Organization WHO of reducing alcoholand promotes a culture of drinking the nutrition and responsible drinking.
related harm by 10% across the world by 2025. right way.
We are also one of the 13 leading alcohol Our study showed areas of progress Developing our approach for 2020 and areas for improvement.
In our beverage companies acting on the Global We are proud of the approach we have taken, sample, 72% said they were aware of the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers over decades, to help tackle harmful drinking.
campaign, and of those, 47% said they Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking.
In setting ourselves new targets for 2020 we believed their drinking behaviour had These Commitments are the largest ever aim to continue to go beyond industry-wide improved as a result.
Results like these industry initiative to implement effective ways commitments.
From this year, we will work help us strengthen and focus our efforts to address harmful drinking.
in partnership to support programmes to towards our ultimate goal reducing These Commitments identified five areas address harmful drinking in our top 20 harmful drinking.
for action over five years from January 2013: countries that can be evaluated for efficacy and impact, and will report on the results.
1 reducing underage drinking We also aim to reach one million adults 2 strengthening and expanding marketing with training materials that enable them including underage drinking, reducing drink codes of practice to champion responsible drinking.
driving, and strengthening and expanding 3 providing consumer information and marketing codes of practice to promote responsible product innovation Performance against 2015 targets responsible drinking.
Digital Guiding Principles Industry performance against each of the 4 reducing drink driving which, building on many existing codes, set five Global Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers 5 enlisting the support of retailers.
high standards for digital advertising, were Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking is launched in September 2014. tracked through key performance indicators.
We believe that efforts to reduce the misuse of While this unified approach has In year two 2014 of the five-year programme, alcohol are most effective when government, undoubtedly increased our reach, there is the industry has shown progress in key areas civil society, individuals and families, as well as still more work to be done.
Our aim is to reduce the harmful use of alcohol through these programmes and by working closely Industry Complaints Complaints about advertising upheld by complaints upheld about with governments and civil society.
A detailed industry bodies that report publicly 2015 upheld Diageo brands progress report on year two of the Global Australia Alcohol Beverage Code 5 0 Producers Commitments will be published Ireland Advertising Standards Authority for Ireland ASAI 1 0 in autumn 2015 and can be found on United Kingdom The Portman Group 4 1 www.
Advertising Standards Authority ASA 35 1 United States Distilled Spirits Council of the United States DISCUS 2 0
