60 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the year ended 30 June 2015.
The purpose of this report is to describe how the Committee has carried out its responsibilities during the year.
In overview, the role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review: the integrity of the companys financial statements: internal control and risk management: audit and risk programmes: business conduct and ethics: whistleblowing: and the appointment of the external auditor.
A key project undertaken by the Committee during the year was the tender for the external audit, as flagged in my report last year.
The tender has been completed and  LLP PwC were selected.
The appointment of PwC will take effect for Diageos financial year ending 30 June 2016, subject to approval at the companys September 2015 AGM.
KPMG has been the groups auditor since 1997 and, on behalf of the Audit Committee, I take this opportunity to thank KPMG for their unstinting professionalism and for the insight that they have brought and the value that they have added to the business during their tenure.
The Committee took note of the publication in September 2014 of an updated version of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code and the requirement for a viability statement contained therein.
As stipulated, we propose to apply the requirements of the updated Code for Diageos year ending 30 June 2016 and we have begun the thought process and preparation to enable us to do so.
Again in September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council published its Guidance on Risk management, Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting replacing the current Turnbull and other guidance.
This is also applicable to Diageos financial year ending in 2016 and the Committee will oversee the necessary compliance.
In discharging its duties, the Audit Committee seeks to balance independent oversight of the matters within its remit with providing support and guidance to management.
I remain confident that the Committee, supported by members of senior management and the external auditors, has carried out its duties in the year under review, effectively and to a high standard.
Philip G Scott Chairman of the Audit Committee Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 61 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Review of legal cases and contingent liabilities.
The committee REPORT OF THE agreed that adequate provision and disclosure have been made for all material litigation and disputes, based on the currently most AUDITCOMMITTEE likely outcomes, including: litigation in Colombia: a customs dispute in Korea: the guarantee agreement with Standard Chartered in respect of Watson Limited: the USL internal inquiry Role of the Audit Committee and related matters: the SEC inquiry: and other legal, customs and The formal role of the Audit Committee is set out in its terms of tax proceedings see note 18. reference, which are available at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Key elements of the Assumptions used in respect of post employment plans.
Having role of the committee and work carried out during the year are set considered advice from external actuaries and assumptions used out as follows.
by companies with comparator plans, the committee agreed that the assumptions used to calculate the income statement and Financial statements balance sheet assets and liabilities for post employment plans During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and a subwere appropriate see note 13. committee met twice and reviewed the annual reports and associated preliminary year end results announcement, focusing on As part of its review of the Annual Report, the Committee key areas of judgement and complexity, critical accounting policies, considered whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable.
provisioning and any changes required in these areas or policies.
In On the basis of this work, the Audit Committee recommended to the addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the interim results Board that it could make the required statement that the Annual announcement, which included the interim financial statements and Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
the companys interim management results and dealt with the Internal control and risk management: audit and risk programme: tender for the external audit.
business conduct and ethics including whistleblowing The company has in place internal control and risk management At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed detailed systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process and reports from the heads of the Global Risk & Compliance GRC and the groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
Global Audit & Risk GAR teams including coverage of the areas A review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by mentioned in the title of this section and had sight of the minutes of management through the work of its filings assurance committee meetings of managements Audit & Risk Committee.
A key focus for FAC to ensure that the financial position and results of the group are the work of both GRC and GAR during the year and their reporting appropriately reflected therein.
The Audit Committee reviewed the to the committee, continued to be a review of recent acquisitions.
work of the FAC and a report on the conclusions of the FAC process The Committee in turn were thus able to keep under review the was provided to the Audit Committee by the Chief Financial Officer.
development of the controls and compliance framework in acquired Significant issues and judgements that were considered in respect companies, bearing in mind the appropriate level for those that were of the 2015 financial statements were as follows.
These include the associates during the year rather than wholly owned subsidiaries.
matters relating to risks disclosed in the UK external auditors report.
The committee also received regular updates from the group general Disclosure on the quality of the earnings and one off items counsel on significant litigation and from the head of tax on the included in cash flow.
The committee agreed that sufficient groups tax profile and key issues.
disclosure was made in the financial statements.
The GRC reporting included a consideration of key risks and The committee determined that exceptional items are appropriately related mitigations, including those set out in the section of this classified considering their size and nature, and sufficient disclosure Annual Report dealing with principal risks.
Based on this activity is provided in the financial statements see note 4. during the year, the Audit Committee made a recommendation to Review of carrying value of assets in particular intangible assets.
the Board covering the nature and extent of the risks it was willing The committee agreed that an impairment charge of 41 million to take to achieve its strategic goals and its internal statement of risk be made against the groups equity investment in Hanoi Liquor appetite this was considered also by the Audit & Risk Committee.
Joint Stock Company a Vietnamese spirit company but that, The Board agreed this recommendation.
otherwise, the fair value of the companys assets was in excess Through the activities of the Audit Committee described in this of their carrying value see notes 6 and 10. report and its related recommendations to the Board, the Board Exchange rate used to translate operations in Venezuela.
The confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys committee determined that the appropriate rate used for the year systems of internal control and risk management.
ended 30 June 2015 was the SIMADI rate of $1 VEF197.3 1 External auditor VEF309.76 compared with $1 VEF49.98 1 VEF85.47 for the During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the external audit year ended 30 June 2014 see note 1. strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of the Following the completion of the tender offer on 2 July 2014, interim results and its audit of the consolidated financial statements.
United Spirits Limited USL is accounted for as a subsidiary with The Audit Committee reviews annually the appointment a 43.91% non-controlling interest.
The fair valuation of assets and of the auditor taking into account the auditors effectiveness liabilities has been finalised during the year ended 30 June 2015. and independence and all appropriate guidelines and makes The committee agreed on the appropriateness of the acquisition a recommendation to the Board accordingly.
Any decision to open fair values recognised see note 9. the external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the companys current choice of external auditor.
62 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Financial expert and other attendees The Audit Committee assessed the ongoing effectiveness and quality of the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under SOX, section and a questionnaire-based internal review with the finance team and 407, the Board has determined that Philip Scott is independent and other senior executives.
The outcome of the assessment was positive.
may be regarded as an Audit Committee financial expert.
The Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the group general The group has a policy on auditor independence and on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is reviewed counsel the group financial controller, the head of GAR, the GRC annually, most recently in July 2015.
The review took into director, the group chief accountant and the external auditor consideration the new regulations on non-audit services.
Under this regularly attend meetings of the committee.
The Audit Committee met privately with the external auditor and policy, the provision of any non-audit service must be approved by the Audit Committee, unless the proposed service is both expected with the head of global audit and risk as appropriate.
to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of Training and deep dives service categories which the Audit Committee has pre-approved.
During the year, the Audit Committee had risk review and training All services relevant to taxation requires Audit Committee approval.
sessions, presented by senior executives, on: brand assurance: Fees paid to the auditor for audit, audit related and other services are Eurozone risk: catastrophic risk: and an update on cyber risk.
analysed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The In addition, as part of a Board meeting, committee members nature and level of all services provided by the external auditor is had a training session on the groups new Risk Management a factor taken into account by the Audit Committee when it reviews Standard.
The Committee concluded at the time that it was annually the independence of the external auditor.
satisfied with the companys position on these matters but During the year, in light of the requirements of the Code and they would be kept under review.
other recent changes to the regulatory framework, the Committee undertook a tender for the external audit KPMG having been the Groups auditor since 1997.
The result of the tender was that, on the recommendation of the Committee, the Board selected PwC.
Subject to approval at the companys September 2015 AGM, the appointment of PwC as auditor will take effect for Diageos financial year ending 30 June 2016.
