Corporate Governance 42 The effectiveness of the Board was already reasonably good and this provides a good platform moving forward.
John Nicholas, Chairman Members of Board Attendance During the year, the Board reviewed the Groups risk management framework in light of the Boards risk appetite.
This process concluded Chairman with a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks, together with an John Nicholas 7 7 agreed form of reports which the Board will use to ensure that it regularly John Rennocks retired on 21 January 2015 1 1 monitors these risks throughout the year.
Independent non-Executive Directors Marie-Louise Clayton 6 7 The other updates to the Code have also been considered by the Board Andy Smith appointed on 9 February 2015 5 5 and its respective Committees and some refinements have been made Charles Packshaw 7 7 to existing practices where appropriate to ensure full compliance.
Anne Thorburn appointed on 7 September 2015 1 1 Executive Directors Further refreshing of the Board took place in 2015 following the Iain Henderson 7 7 retirement of John Rennocks as Chairman in January 2015.
In addition Nigel Lingwood 7 7 with Marie-Louise Claytons term of office expiring in November 2015, Bruce Thompson 7 7 we needed to recruit a new non-Executive Director.
As well as having to fill these vacancies, it provided a good opportunity Dear Shareholder to refresh the Chairs of the Board Committees.
The recruitment of In my first year as Chairman of the Company, I have tried to provide Andy Smith in February with significant experience of HR policies and sufficient opportunity for both myself and my independent colleagues practices makes him a good Chair to replace me on the Remuneration on the Board, all of whom are relatively new to their roles, to gain a Committee.
Similarly, I was pleased that Anne Thorburn decided to join thorough understanding of the culture and values of the Company.
us in September as she brings good experience gained in Board level finance roles in international industrial companies.
This will allow her to An important step in this process was the Boards formal review of Group be particularly effective as Chair of the Audit Committee.
I was also strategy held in Switzerland over two days and combined with a visit to pleased that Charles Packshaw agreed to become Senior Independent Kubo, which the Group acquired earlier in the year.
As well as reviewing Director of the Company, following my appointment as Chairman.
Group strategy with the Executive Directors, the Board also had an opportunity to meet senior management in the Groups EMEA Seals Finally, we were all sad to learn that Iain will be leaving the Group in March businesses, to receive formal presentations from these businesses and 2016 after many years as an Executive Director on the Board and we wish to have a more informal dinner with these managers.
him well in his retirement.
As indicated in the announcement of Iains departure in September, the Board will not seek to directly replace his Later in the year, the Board experienced its first externally facilitated Board role as Chief Operating Officer.
However the Chief Executive evaluation of effectiveness, which had been postponed from last year Officer will set up an Executive Management Group of senior to allow the more recently appointed Directors to gain more insight into management drawn from across the businesses, including the PLC the workings of the Board.
This evaluation exercise was based on Office.
This Group will be accountable to the Board, through the Chief confidential one-to-one interviews with an external facilitator.
I was Executive Officer, which will provide the Board with good insight of senior pleased that the facilitator was able to confirm that the effectiveness of management as it develops its plans for succession.
the Board was already reasonably good as this will provide a good platform moving forward.
There were some minor recommendations Finally, I would hope that as shareholders in the Company you will be that came out of this exercise which are identified further in this Report able to find time to attend our AGM on Wednesday, 20 January 2016. on Corporate Governance and we plan to implement these in the next It provides an excellent opportunity to meet the Board of Directors financial year.
and challenge them on any matters you feel are important to the development of the Company.
The changes introduced in 2014 to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC guidance on risk management in particular, were very timely John Nicholas in supporting one of the Boards key objectives identified last year to 16 November 2015 review the Groups risk management and internal control processes.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43 Compliance with the Code Diploma PLC is required to state whether it has complied with the Main A.
4.1 There was no Senior Independent Director SID appointed for Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The previous Code the period from 21 January 2015 when John Nicholas resigned as SID published in 2012 was revised and re-issued by the Financial Reporting until the appointment of Charles Packshaw as SID on 27 February 2015.
Set out on pages 43 to 65 is an explanation Following his appointment as Chairman, John Nicholas was keen to of how the Company has complied with the Main Principles of the follow a fair and structured appointment process for the role of SID.
C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 There were only two members of the Audit The Board confirms that throughout the financial year, the Company Committee for the period from 21 January 2015, when John Nicholas applied all of the Principles set out in sections A to E of the UK resigned as a member, until the appointment of Andy Smith as an Corporate Governance Code for the period under review.
The Board independent non-Executive Director on 9 February 2015.
Similarly, also confirms that it complies with all of the Provisions of the Code as at there was no Chairman of the Remuneration Committee during the the date of this Report.
There were no meetings of either the Audit or Remuneration Committee during this period.
There were four cases of non-compliance with the Provisions of the Code during the year.
These related to timings of appointments The Companys auditor Deloitte LLP, is required to review whether the following the retirement of John Rennocks as Chairman and the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the appointment of John Nicholas as his successor.
Provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it B.
1.2 At least half the Board did not comprise independent nondoes not reflect such compliance.
Executive Directors during the period from 21 January 2015 until the appointment of Andy Smith as an independent non-Executive Director on 9 February 2015.
The recruitment process had commenced in December 2014, but had not been completed by 21 January 2015.
Framework of Corporate Governance The Board The Diploma PLC Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders Audit Committee for standards of governance across the Groups businesses.
Certain Chaired by Marie-Louise Clayton strategic decision-making powers and authorities of the Company are Number of meetings in the year: six reserved as matters for the Board.
The principal matters reserved for the Board are set out below.
Day-to-day operational decisions are Role of the Committee managed by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing and monitoring the Companys financial statements, accounting Setting the overall strategic direction and oversight of the processes, audit internal and external, internal control systems and management of Diploma PLC.
risk management procedures and also monitors issues relating to fraud, anti-bribery and corruption, sanctions and whistleblowing.
Approval of the Group and Company financial statements.
Nomination Committee All new bank facilities, or significant changes to existing facilities.
Chaired by John Nicholas Assessment and approval of the principal risks facing the Group and Number of meetings in the year: three how they are being managed.
Role of the Committee Approval of the Viability Statement.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and Maintaining sound internal control and risk management systems.
composition of the Board and its Committees.
It identifies and nominates suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board subject Approval of major corporate transactions and commitments.
to Board approval and considers succession generally.
Succession planning and appointments to the Board.
Review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements Remuneration Committee and reviewing the performance of the Board and its Committees Chaired by Andy Smith annually.
Number of meetings in the year: three Approval of the delegation of authority between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and the terms of reference of all Role of the Committee Committees of the Board.
The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board, the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the Executive Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Committeewhich will Directors.
The remuneration of the non-Executive Directors is consider them in accordance with its terms of reference.
Details of each determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the DiplomaPLC Committee takes into account the business strategy of the Group website at www.
com and how remuneration policy should reflect and support that strategy.
Corporate Governance continued 44 Leadership The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors and Board composition Officers against the costs of defending themselves in legal proceedings The Board currently comprises a Chairman, three Executive Directors and taken against them in that capacity and in respect of any damages four independent non-Executive Directors.
The non-Executive Directors resulting from those proceedings.
are appointed for specified terms and the details of their respective appointments are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers to the extent page 57.
The biographical details of the Board members are set out on permitted by law.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover pages 40 and 41. where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
As previously reported, John Rennocks retired from the Board at the To ensure that non-Executive Directors can constructively challenge conclusion of the AGM on 21 January 2015 and John Nicholas and support proposals on strategy, the Board has adopted a process of succeeded him as Chairman.
The recruitment of another non-Executive reviewing and approving the agreed strategy for the Company on a Director commenced late in 2014 and completed on 9 February 2015 three yearly basis.
The Board met with its key advisors in early June with the appointment of Andy Smith as an independent non-Executive 2015, to set the scene for a formal review of the Companys strategy at Director.
Andy was also appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration the end of June 2015 in Zurich, Switzerland.
The location also provided Committee which John Nicholas had vacated on becoming Chairman an opportunity to visit the facilities of the recently acquired Kubo, based of the Company on 21 January 2015 and a member of the Audit and at Effretikon, Switzerland and to receive presentations from the senior Nomination Committees.
management of Diplomas EMEA Seals businesses Kubo, M Seals, Kentek and FPE Seals.
The Board received a number of presentations In November 2015, Marie-Louise Claytons three year term of office and had thorough and challenging reviews with Executive expired.
Anne Thorburn was appointed an independent non-Executive management.
The Board will review progress annually against the Director on 7 September 2015 and was also appointed a member of the objectives set at the Group strategy and will undertake the next formal Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Anne Thorburn will review in 2017 18. be appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 17 November 2015.
Meetings of the Board On appointment as Chairman, John Nicholas vacated the role of Senior The Board has decided to increase its scheduled meetings from Independent Director and was replaced by Charles Packshaw who was six to seven in the next financial year so as to provide more time to appointed Senior Independent Director on 27 February 2015. address the substantial additional regulatory matters that it is now required to consider on a more formal basis.
Activities of the Board The Companys governance framework is set out on page 43 together The Board will however meet more frequently if required and this with a summary of the formal terms of reference.
The core activities of year met on seven occasions, including the Strategy Review, as the Board and its Committees are planned on an annual basis and this set out on page 42. framework forms the basic structure within which the Board operates.
Each Director is expected to attend all meetings of the Board The Boards terms of reference also set out the separate and distinct orCommittees of which they are a member.
In addition, senior roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
management from across the Group and advisors attend certain meetings for the discussion of specific items in greater depth.
The Chairman is responsible for the overall leadership and governance of the Board and ensures that the Directors have an understanding of This exposure to the members of senior management from across the views of the Companys major shareholders.
The Chairman sets the the businesses helps enhance the Boards understanding of the Boards agenda and ensures that there is a healthy culture of challenge businesses, the implementation of strategy and the changing and debate at Board and Committee meetings.
dynamics of the markets in which the businesses operate.
The Board appoints the Chief Executive Officer and monitors his Effectiveness performance in leading the Company and providing operational and Independent non-Executive Directors performance management in delivering the agreed strategy.
The Chief The non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to be Executive Officer is responsible for developing, for the Boards approval, independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships appropriate values, culture and standards to guide all activities orcircumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors undertaken by the Company and for maintaining good relationships judgement.
The Chairman, John Nicholas was considered independent and communications with investors.
by the Board both at the time of his appointment as Director on 1 June 2013 and as Chairman on 21 January 2015.
In accordance with the The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter reserved for Code, the ongoing test of independence for the Chairman is not relevant.
the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief Executive Officer the responsibility for such activities to a specified level of authority.
Similarly, All non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments there are authority levels covering capital expenditure which can be at appointment.
The ability of individual Directors to allocate sufficient exercised by the Chief Executive Officer.
Beyond these levels of time to the discharge of their responsibilities is considered as part of the authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
Directors annual evaluation process, overseen by the Chairman.
Any issues concerning the Chairmans time commitment are dealt with by Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, internal the Nomination Committee, chaired for this purpose by the Senior control and risk management.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45 Each non-Executive Director is required to inform the Board of any Board evaluation changes to their other appointments.
The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of effectiveness using specifically designed evaluation forms and under the direction of During the year, the Chairman has also held meetings with the the Chairman.
This exercise encompasses an evaluation of the non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
performance of the Board as a whole, as well as of each of the Committees and individuals.
Feedback on Board performance is The appointments of non-Executive Directors are subject to formal, presented by the Chairman to the Board and actions and objectives rigorous and transparent procedures which are described more fully are agreed for the following year.
inthe Report from the Nomination Committee which is set out on page51.
Following the internal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board carried out in September 2014, the Board identified three areas to Diversity address in particular in 2015.
These objectives and the progress The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains talented achieved in 2015 are set out below: people to deliver outstanding performance and further enhance the success of the Group.
In that culture, diversity across a range of criteria To strengthen the Boards competencies through the appointment is valued, primarily in relation to skills, knowledge and experience and of a new non-Executive Director with broad industrial experience also in other criteria such as gender and ethnicity.
The Board has gained in an international environment this was achieved by the considered setting objectives in relation to diversity, but does not appointment of Andy Smith as a non-Executive Director.
believe that such objectives are appropriate at this juncture, given To seek more regular presentations at Board meetings from senior the relatively small Board.
The Board will however keep this matter management across the Group during the year, senior under review, particularly in light of Board succession and development.
management from DHG and the EMEA Seals businesses made presentations to the Board.
In March 2016, the Board will also be Information and professional development holding one of their formal meetings at another Group business An induction programme is agreed for all new Directors aimed at location and will have an opportunity to meet with local ensuring that they are able to develop an understanding and awareness management in that business.
of the Groups core processes, its people and businesses.
The nonTo focus on the management of risk the Board discussed and Executive Directors awareness of the businesses is further developed developed the Groups risk management framework over several through periodic visits to the principal business locations and meetings.
These discussions included the development of an presentations to the Board by senior management of the businesses.
updated risk management framework and consideration of the Boards risk appetite.
As part of this exercise the Board carried out a Following the new appointments to the Board last year, a managed robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the induction programme was set up which includes a visit by each of the key controls in place to manage these risks.
The results of this work new non-Executive Directors to the major business units in each of the are summarised in a separate section of the Strategic Report on Groups Sectors where they have an opportunity to meet with senior Internal Control and Risk Management on page 34. management in these businesses.
Meetings were held individually between each of the non-Executive Directors and the Executive As indicated in last years Annual Report & Accounts, the Board this year Directors and with some of the principal advisors to the Company.
completed an annual evaluation of the Boards effectiveness using an external facilitator to carry out this exercise.
A member of the Institute The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive Officer and of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators was appointed to carry out the GroupCompany Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that Directors this evaluation.
aresupplied with information in a timely manner that is in a form and of aquality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
In the The evaluation was conducted by means of confidential interviews normal course of business, the Chief Executive Officer gives an oral with each individual member of the Board.
The exercise encompassed report to the Board at each meeting and information is provided and an evaluation of the Board as a whole and of the Board Committees.
reported through formal Board reports that include information on The evaluation of the Board covered seven topics: Board role and operational matters and strategic developments.
There are also reports responsibilities, oversight, arrangements for Board meetings, support on the performance of the Groups businesses, financial performance for the Board, Board composition, working together and outcome and relative to the budget, risk management, business development and achievements.
The external facilitator prepared a detailed report on the results of his The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at Board evaluation which was circulated to all members of the Board and the meetings and where appropriate, briefings as necessary are provided on Chairman invited the facilitator to present his report at the meeting of various elements of corporate governance and other regulatory issues.
The Group Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board on The facilitator concluded that, based on his evaluation, the Boards matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and ensures effectiveness was strong with an average score of 73% across each of compliance with Board procedures.
All Directors have access to his the seven topics assessed, as identified above.
There were no negative advice and a procedure also exists for Directors to take independent performance issues identified from the evaluation that related to professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was individual Directors or the performance of the Board Committees.
The appointment and removal of the Group However, the facilitator recommended a small number of items that Company Secretary and his remuneration are matters for the Board the Board should address with the aim of strengthening the Boards as a whole.
The principal matters were: Corporate Governance continued 46 the Board should formally review the Groups policies on cyber risk Relations with shareholders on a more regular basis: and The Company has a well-developed investor relations programme the Board should agree to a timetable for circulating Board papers managed by the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director.
and minutes to all members of the Board.
Through this programme, the Company maintains regular contact with major shareholders to communicate clearly the Groups objectives and The Chairman undertook to consider these recommendations and monitors movements in significant shareholdings.
will report back to the Board on actions required, where appropriate, to address these matters.
The Board will report on progress made During the past several years, these communications have been with implementing these recommendations in next years Annual enhanced by the introduction of Investor Days, both in the UK and in Report & Accounts.
Canada which were well attended.
In addition, Investor Roadshows are now held each year in the US as well as in the UK and formal The Senior Independent Director, together with the non-Executive investor presentations are made twice a year to groups of private Directors also carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman, client fund managers.
having taken account of the views of Directors.
Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer and Re-election GroupFinance Director through presentations made twice a year on All Directors of the Board are subject to election by the shareholders theoperating and financial performance of the Group and its longer term at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board and in strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director generally accordance with the Code, all Directors will also stand for re-election deal with questions from individual shareholders.
The Groups website contains up to date information for shareholders Conflicts of interest which includes the Annual Reports of the past five years, current and Directors are subject to a statutory duty under the Companies Act 2006 historic share price information, news releases, presentations to analysts the Act to avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a direct and key shareholders.
The website also contains factual data on the or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with the Groups businesses, products and services.
The Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, where the The non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also ofinstitutional shareholders and an independent insight is sought allows the Articles to contain other provisions for dealing with Directors through research carried out twice a year by the Companys advisors, conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
focused on both investors and analysts.
Procedures adopted to deal with conflicts of interest continue to Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key issues operate effectively and the Boards authorisation powers are being and the opportunity is available on request for shareholders to meet exercised properly in accordance with the Companys Articles of the Chairman or Senior Independent Director, separately from the Association.
Charles Packshaw, the Companys Senior Independent Director, is also Electronic communications to shareholders include the Notice of the AGM Head of UK Advisory and Managing Director in HSBCs global banking which is sent at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
The Company businesses which is one of the principal banks that provide bank proposes a separate resolution on each separate issue and for each facilities and ancillary banking services to the Group and its businesses.
resolution, proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the The Board remains satisfied that this relationship does not provide a option to vote in advance of the AGM.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Accountability Companys AGM, when the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer give a The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report & statement on the Groups performance during the year, together with Accounts taken as a whole present a fair, balanced and understandable a statement on current trading conditions.
The Chairman of the Board assessment of the Group and provides the information necessary to and of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will be available to shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business answer questions at the meeting.
This is achieved through this Annual Report & Accounts, the Annual Review and through other periodic financial The Board has resolved, in line with best practice, to conduct a poll statements and announcements.
on each resolution proposed at the AGM.
The results of the AGM resolutions, including details of votes cast, are published on the The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the Companys website.
principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control With regard to other shareholder meetings, other than Annual General systems.
The Board is also responsible for monitoring the Groups Meetings AGMs, the Board will continue, in ordinary circumstances, risk management and internal control systems and it reviews the to provide as much notice as possible and certainly no less than effectiveness of these systems through the work of the Audit 14 working days.
However, the Board considers that it should still Committee.
retain the flexibility to reduce the timescale to 14 clear days in the case of non-routine business and where it is merited by the business The principal risks which the Board has identified this year are set out in of the meeting.
For this reason, the Board has again proposed a the section on Internal Control and Risk Management on pages 34 to 37 resolution at the AGM to reduce the notice period for General of the Strategic Report.
Meetings from 21 to no less than 14 clear days.
