Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49 Nomination Committee report The Committee successfully recruited a new Non-Executive Director to chair our Audit Committee.
Peter Hindley, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, Non-Executive Director of Dignity but also act as Chairman of On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2015 the Audit Committee.
I am pleased to advise that at the end of Nomination Committee report.
a rigorous recruitment process we appointed David Blackwood, his biographical details are on page 41 of this Annual Report.
During 2015 the Nomination Committee the Committee consisted of me as Chairman, Alan McWalter Senior All the Non-Executive Directors were reappointed for new Independent Director, Jane Ashcroft, Martin Pexton, two year terms during 2014 as I advised in my letter to Ishbel Macpherson until she resigned from the Board on shareholders last year.
Martin Pexton and Jane Ashcroft have 30 September 2015 and thereafter David Blackwood each of served on the Board since 1 April 2012, Alan McWalter since whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company 12 January 2009 and David Blackwood since 1 October 2015.
Secretary, Richard Portman, acted as Secretary to the Committee when requested by me to do so.
All members The Committee, and by extension the full Board, continue to are considered to be independent by the Group having no support the spirit of Lord Davies Report Women on Boards.
In 2011 we set a goal of 20 per cent of Board positions to be day to day involvement with the Group.
This objective was achieved in 2012.
However, following the resignation of Ishbel Macpherson and During the year the Committee carried out the following tasks.
the appointment of David Blackwood that percentage has fallen to 11 per cent.
I remain fully committed to increasing the Kept under review the structure, size and composition of proportion of women serving on the Board of Dignity back to the Board including ensuring that it has the necessary skills, 20 per cent or higher but continue to remain mindful of the knowledge and experience: overall need to recruit the very best candidates regardless of Considered succession planning for the Directors and senior gender.
The Group will continue to encourage similar diversity managers: in senior management positions and throughout the workforce.
Identified and nominated for approval by the full Board a suitable candidate to fill the vacancy arising upon the I am also pleased to confirm that the Group will continue retirement from the Board of Ishbel Macpherson: to publish the details on corporate diversity suggested in Recommendation 2 of the Davies Report and report on our Kept under review the leadership needs of the Group, both compliance Recommendation 4 and appointment process executive and non-executive: Recommendation 5 in our Annual Report.
Reviewed the time required from the Non-Executive Directors: and During the period, the Board completed an internal performance evaluation of itself and its Committees.
The results of this are Reviewed the results of the Board performance evaluation discussed on page 42. that relate to the composition of the Board.
Finally, the Companys Articles provide that all Directors retire The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the by rotation with one third being subject to re-election each year.
Groups corporate website at www.
However we continue to adopt the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code such that all Directors offer The Committee met twice in 2015.
At these meetings the themselves for re-election annually.
principal duties of the Committee were formally considered and no issues or concerns were identified.
The members of This Nomination Committee report was reviewed and approved the Committees attendance record is set out on page 43. by the Board on 2 March 2016.
I report on the Committees proceedings at the next full Board meeting and the minutes of those meetings are made available to all members of the Board.
Peter Hindley Chairman of the Nomination Committee Subsequent to my letter in the 2014 Annual Report Ishbel Macpherson indicated that she intended to step down from 2 March 2016 the Board during 2015.
The Nomination Committee retained the executive search agency Buchanan Harvey to provide a list of both male and female high calibre candidates with the appropriate skills and experience to not only be a
