Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 47 SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW: GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS across a breach to report it immediately, practices, we have met our goal of sourcing conduct in all their business interactions and truly embody our value of being proud of either through our confidential 70% of agricultural materials locally by 2015 locally being defined as materials sourced what we do.
whistleblowing helpline SpeakUp, to their within Africa and used by our African manager, or to a member of the global risk Due care in delegating authority and compliance, human resources or legal markets.
We have increased this target to As our business expands, it is important to teams.
SpeakUp is also available to suppliers.
80% for 2020. ensure that we embed our standards and There were 703 suspected breaches procedures in all new business units.
We plan reported this year, of which 324 were GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS ahead and move quickly to ensure our new subsequently substantiated.
Of the PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS acquisitions are operating to the same suspected breaches, 289 were reported standards as our existing businesses, through SpeakUp, compared with 299 in and we are consistent in our stance on Manager level and above employees 2014.
All identified breaches are taken very completing Annual Certification of Compliance non-compliance issues.
We are also seriously and those that require action committed to establishing good working are investigated.
10 0% 100% in 2014 relationships with our other business Our response to proven breaches varies partners, including our suppliers, and Employees leaving Diageo due to a breach of depending on the severity of the matter, the Code of Business Conduct or other policies ensuring that they adhere appropriately and we monitor breaches to identify trends to our principles.
or common areas where further action may 10 9 vs 146 in 2014 USL, which was integrated this year, be required.
This year, 109 people exited the updated their Code of Business Conduct & business as a result of breaches of our Code People want to trust the company behind Ethics during the year.
It sets out USLs or policies.
the brands that they love.
Our reputation can commitment to conducting business in accordance with our purpose and values, only be sustained if every one of us is doing Reported and substantiated breaches and 100% of USL executives were trained on the right thing, every day, everywhere.
i 831 We are committed to conducting our how to apply it in their work.
The Code has business responsibly and in accordance clearly defined policies on important areas ii 703 such as responsible marketing, quality and with all laws and regulations to which our food safety, anti-corruption, gifts and business activities are subject.
To help our employees make the right decisions entertainment, and many more that 440 at work, we have a sound corporate are aligned with our values and our 324 sustainability goals.
governance structure and a robust risk, controls and compliance programme, Risk management with our Code of Business Conduct our Our risk management global standard Code at the heart of our business.
requires all markets and functions to perform 2014 2015 risk assessments at least annually to consider Standards and procedures Reported i Reported through SpeakUp 299. risks concerning human rights, bribery and This year we refreshed our Code published Substantiated ii Reported through SpeakUp 289. in July 2015, which sets the standard for corruption, anti-money laundering, and all what is expected of everyone working at other relevant laws and regulations, as well as our own Code, policies and standards, and to Enforcement and incentives Diageo, and from which our other policies ensure that mitigation plans for their most We aim to improve our culture through and standards flow.
Each employee at training, coaching and incentives.
manager level and above completes an significant risks have been established.
Annual performance appraisals give full Annual Certification of Compliance ACC Training and communications consideration to both performance and to confirm their understanding of, and Each market has its own training plan for our behaviour, with an individuals commitment adherence to, our Code and any applicable Code and key policies, which they deliver to Diageos controls, compliance, and ethics policies, and to identify any areas of possible through locally organised, risk-based training.
agenda being considered under behaviour.
In 2015, the ACC was To further embed ownership of this agenda Employees overall performance affects completed by all eligible managers 9,271 with employees, some of our businesses their pay increases, and, where relevant, of our employees, or approximately 40% go beyond basic training with annual their bonuses.
engagement events such as the Pathway of This year we also launched our breach Controls Pride programme in Africa, Ethics Day in Asia management global standard, and refreshed Pacific, and Compliance Day in Great Britain.
We have a strong internal control our risk management global standard, as When an employee joins Diageo, he or she environment, and we have an annual part of the continuing evolution of our risk programme to assess, test, and report on the must complete training about our Code within management programme.
effectiveness of internal controls across our 30 days.
The 4,296 employees who joined us this year were taken through a one-hour company.
Our controls cover all aspects of Global risk and compliance risk, ranging from financial to operational induction on compliance and ethics.
The global risk and compliance team to reputational risk, and all markets and provides rigorous oversight of our risk Monitoring, auditing, and reporting functions are required to certify annually management, internal control, and We strive to have a culture in which whether their internal controls are operating compliance and ethics programme across employees feel comfortable raising concerns effectively, and quickly remediate any Diageo.
Our overriding aim is to encourage about potential breaches of our Code or weaknesses identified.
integrity in every part of the business: we policies.
We expect anyone who comes want employees to act with exemplary
