CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Dominos Pizza Group plc the Company is incorporated andhasapremium listing in the UK.
As a result, it is required to  with the UK Corporate Governance Code theCode orexplain why it has chosen not to comply.
For the year ended 27 December 2015, it was subject to the edition of the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, whichis available from www.
The Code contains 18 main principles, which are expanded on in supporting principles and detailed provisions.
Together, these set out the key components of effective board practice, and we explain in this report how we have applied these during the year.
Where appropriate, some explanations are contained in the Nomination Committee report, STEPHEN HEMSLEY the Audit Committee report, the Directors remuneration report and theDirectors report.
CHAIRMAN There are three Code provisions with which the Company has not complied fully throughout the year ended 27 December 2015: A.
4.1 The Board should appoint one of the independent non-executive directors to be the senior CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION independentdirector.
I am very pleased to introduce this section of Since the retirement of Michael Shallow on 31 July 2015, the Annual Report.
Corporate governance is a therehas been no senior independent director formally appointed.
In the light of other changes to the directorate vital subject as it is the Board that directs and inthe year, the Board wishes to see how relationships and controls the Company, creating a framework dynamics develop before making this important appointment.
within which the executive leadership team It is intended to nominate one of the independent Non-executive canconduct their day-to-day operational Directors as the SID in the first half of 2016. management ofthe business.
2.1 A majority of members of the nomination committee It is vital that the Board strikes the right balance should be independent non-executive directors.
between entrepreneurial leadership and the From the start of the year to 31 July 2015 there were two prudent and effective management of risk.
members, one of whom was an independent non-executive Bothare equally essential if we are to create Director.
From 1August 2015 to 15 September 2015 there and preserve value for shareholders.
This report was only one member, theChairman of the Board.
explains how we have sought to strike that On16September 2015, the first Board meeting following balance during 2015, a year in which we not Michael Shallows retirement, two independent non-executive Directors were appointed as membersand the Nomination only delivered record results for shareholders Committee composition becameCode-compliant.
butalso made some strides in developing .
D. 2.1 The Board should establish a remuneration committee ofatleast three independent non-executive directors.
From 1 August 2015 to 15 September 2015 there were Stephen Hemsley onlytwo members, both of whom were independent Non-executive Chairman non-executive Directors.
On 16 September 2015, the first 2 March 2016 Board meeting following Michael Shallows retirement, a further independent non-executive Director was appointed asa member and the Remuneration Committee composition became Code-compliant.
The Board does not believe that this non-compliance created or creates risk for shareholders.
The actual practices it follows are fully consistent with the principles espoused in the Code and do not hinder either good governance or the achievement of business objectives.
Two of the non-compliance issues related to a relatively short period of time and, as noted above, the Board intends to resolve the one remaining non-compliance issue in the current financial year.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leadership our governance framework The Company is led by the Board, whose members are collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company.
Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to management, led by the Chief Executive Officer.
The role of the Board can be summarised as follows: Decide on the longer-term aims Decide on the short-term goals o Agree the Companys businessmodel o Review and approve strategy, providing constructive challengeasnecessary o Agree an appetite for risk o Ensure the necessary financial and human resources o Set values and standards fortheCompany areinplace o Provide entrepreneurial leadership o Agree business plans andbudgets o Appoint the CEO o Review the risk management process and internal controlenvironment Report to, and engage with, shareholders Monitor and manage performance o Monitor the integrity offinancial information andthe reporting o Monitor managements performance in delivering thestrategy, ofperformance generally and challenge orsupport as necessary o Report to shareholders onbusiness performance o Approve major expenditure andother commitments o Ensure other external obligations are met, including reporting o Monitor the risk environment in which the Company operates tootherstakeholders and review internal controls o Understand shareholders views and act as necessary o Determine the remuneration ofExecutive Directors andmanagement o Oversee the governance oftheCompany and Group, toensure shareholders interestsare protected Within the delegation framework described above, the Board retains The Board is supported in its work by three committees: certain key decision-making responsibilities: o setting and approving overall Group strategy: THE BOARD o setting a risk appetite, within which management is required to operate: o reviewing and approving business plans and budgets: o reviewing and approving major business decisions: o reviewing major risks and the implementation of mitigation strategies: AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION o reviewing the functioning of the internal control environment: COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE o monitoring operational and trading results against previously approved plans: Terms of reference for these committees, which are regularly reviewed o reviewing and approving significant contractual and other by the Board, are available on the Companys investor relations website commitments, including capital expenditure: corporate.
co. uk as is the formal schedule of matters reserved o reviewing corporate governance arrangements: for the Boards decision.
o reviewing succession plans for Board, Executive Director and senior management positions: and o exercising its control by an annual review of matters reserved fortheBoards decision.
As noted above, the Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It also retains oversight of the risk management and internal control systems with the aim that these are sound and protect shareholders interests.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Leadership our governance framework continued Board roles and responsibilities There is a clear separation between the roles of the Chairman and the Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer, which is recorded in a document approved by The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities the Board in September 2015 and summarised below.
In essence, the for the integrity of the financial statements, reviewing the internal control Chairman manages the Board and the CEO manages the business.
environment and risk management systems, managing the relationship Importantly, no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
with the external auditor and monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the external and internal auditors.
The Chairman meets with the Chief Executive Officer at least once a month, including visits to pizza stores, and they are in contact between Nomination Committee these occasions as required.
The Chairman also has separate discussions The Nomination Committee oversees the recruitment of the Directors with the non-executive Directors.
and senior management and advises on matters relating to the Boards Chairman membership and Committee appointments, including reviewing succession plans.
The Nomination Committee also regularly reviews and monitors The role of the Chairman is: the overall skills and experience of the Board.
o providing leadership to and ensuring the effectiveness of the Board: Remuneration Committee o ensuring that agendas emphasise strategic, rather than routine, The Remuneration Committee determines the terms and conditions issues and that the Directors receive accurate and clear information ofemployment, remuneration and rewards of the Executive Directors, well ahead of the time when a decision is required: the Chairman and the leadership teams.
The Remuneration Committee o promoting a culture of openness and constructive debate, and aims to offer an appropriate balance of fixed and performance-related, facilitating an effective contribution by the non-executive Directors: immediate and deferred remuneration, but without overpaying or creating the risk of rewards forfailure.
o arranging informal meetings of the Directors, including meetings ofthe non-executive Directors: Board composition o ensuring effective communication by the Group with its shareholders: The Boards preferred structure is to be led by a non-executive Chairman, have high calibre Executive Directors to drive the performance of the o arranging for the Chairs of the Committees to be available to answer business under the leadership of a Chief Executive Officer, and a number questions at the AGM and for all Directors to attend: and of non-executive Directors drawn from a range of backgrounds, whose o taking the lead in providing a properly constructed, full, formal and tailored role is to provide constructive challenge.
Our aim is that the independent induction programme and ongoing development for new Directors.
non-executive Directors always constitute at least half of the Board.
This structure and the integrity of the individual Directors should ensure that Chief Executive Officer no single individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
The role of the Chief Executive Officer is: There is a common purpose of promoting the overall success of the Group with a unified vision of the definition of success, the core strategic o leading the development of the Groups strategic direction principles, and the understanding, alignment and mitigation of risk.
andobjectives: Non-executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms subject o identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals and leading toannual re-election by shareholders and the offer of any further term geographic diversification initiatives: of appointment after year six would be weighed carefully by the Nomination o reviewing the Groups organisational structure and recommending Committee, which keeps the need for progressive refreshing of the changes as appropriate: Board particularly to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience and orderly succession to key appointments under o identifying and executing new business opportunities: continual review.
o overseeing risk management and internal control: Independence o managing the Groups risk profile, including the health and safety The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive Directors performance of the Group: annually.
In assessing the independence of each Director, the Board o implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees: considers whether each is independent in character and judgement andwhether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely o building and maintaining effective an Group leadership team: and toaffect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
o ensuring the Chairman and the Board are alerted to forthcoming complex, contentious or sensitive issues affecting the Group.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Senior Independent Director Board composition The SID focuses on: The seven continuing members of the Board on 27 December 2015 were drawn from a range of backgrounds, and gained their experience o meeting regularly with the independent non-executive Directors: in a range ofrelevant industry sectors: o providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting asanintermediary for other Directors: PROFESSIONAL SKILLS o being available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive Officer Accounting 2 has failed to address or would be inappropriate: and Retail management 4 o holding annual meetings with non-executive Directors without Marketing 1 theChairman present.
Non-executive Director 29 57 14 z The role of a non-executive Director is: o providing creative contribution to the Board by way PRIMARY EXPERIENCE : Consumer retail 3 o bringing independence, impartiality, experience, specialist knowledgeand a different perspective to the Board: Food retail 3 o providing guidance on matters of concern and strategy: Professional services 1 o overseeing risk management and internal control: 43 43 14 z o protecting shareholder and stakeholder interests: o constructively challenging the Executive Directors and monitoring Executive performance: GENDER BALANCE o supporting the Executive team in shaping and  Male 6 goals of the business: Female 1 o optimising shareholder return and protection of shareholder assets: and o ensuring the Board is able to work together effectively and make maximum use of its time.
86 14 z Diversity The Boards policy on diversity is explained in the Nomination The current non-executive Directors tenure reflects our approach Committee report on page 38. ofprogressively refreshing the Board: Leadership in action CURRENT YEAR OF NON-EXECUTIVE This section of the corporate governance report explains how the Board TENURE, AT 27 DECEMBER 2015 has fulfilled its duties and obligations during the year under review.
8 Board membership The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the CEO, 6 anon-executive Vice-Chairman and four independent non-executive Directors.
It is intended to recruit a Chief Financial Officer in the near 4 future.
The names and biographical details of the serving Directors, andthe offices held by them, can be found on page 31.
2 2 1 In addition, Sean Wilkins served as a Director and Chief Financial Officer from the start of the year until 20 January 2015, Michael Shallow served Steve Kevin Ebbe Helen Stephen Colin 1 2 Barber Higgins Jacobsen Keays Hemsley Halpern as an independent non-executive Director from the start of the year until 31 July 2015 andPaul Doughty served as a Director and Chief Financial 1 Stephen Hemsley was appointed as non-executive Chairman in March 2010.
Officer from8 June 2015 to the end of the year under review, but However, he was first appointed to an Executive Director role in 1998 and as a resigned from the Board with effect from 31 December 2015.
Director of the Company on incorporation in 1999.
Full details of Stephens history with the Company can be found in the Directors biographies on page 31.
We believe that the Board is of sufficient size that the requirements of the business and good governance can be met and normal succession 2 Colin Halpern acquired the Dominos Pizza master franchise for the UK and Ireland in 1993 and has held a variety of senior executive roles within the Group.
challenges managed, but is not so large as to be unwieldy.
He became a non-executive Director in December 2007.
Full details of Colins history with theCompany can be found in the Directors biographies on page 31.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Leadership in action continued Attendance at Board and committee meetings The Board is scheduled to meet seven times in each year.
Additional Independence meetings are arranged as necessary which do not necessarily require The Board has considered the independence of the current non-executive the full participation of all directors.
Committees meet as necessary to Directors, other than the Chairman.
It does not believe that Colin Halpern is discharge their duties.
Attendance of individual Directors at meetings independent in view of his long service with the Company including his ofthe Board including additional meetings and its committees during former executive responsibilities and the contractual relationship with the year ended 27 December 2015 was as follows: the Group in which he is involved.
Shortly before he retired from the Board, Audit Nomination Remuneration Michael Shallow reached the ninth anniversary of his appointment as a Board Committee Committee Committee non-executive Director.
The Board reviewed his character andjudgement Stephen Hemsley 9 of 9 1 of 1 and concluded that it was appropriate to continue to regard him as being independent.
Colin Halpern 9 of 9 David Wild 9 of 9 Board balance Paul Doughty 5 of 6 The Board composition createsamajority of independent non-executive Directors, with the current position being: Kevin Higgins 9 of 9 3 of 3 4 of 4 Steve Barber 4 of 4 2 of 2 1 of 1 Ebbe Jacobsen 9 of 9 1 of 1 BOARD BALANCE Helen Keays 9 of 9 2 of 3 1 of 1 4 of 4 Non-independent Directors 2 Michael Shallow 5 of 6 2 of 2 3 of 3 David Wild Colin Halpern Each non-executive Director has committed to the Company that they areable to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their Chairman 1 responsibilities effectively.
Any additional appointments they are Stephen Hemsley 28 14 58 z contemplating taking on are discussed with the Chairman in advance, Independent including the likely time commitment and whether these could in any non-executive Directors 4 way constitute a conflict of interest.
These matters are formally reviewed Steve Barber by the Board on an annual basis.
Kevin Higgins Ebbe Jacobsen Meetings of non-executive Directors Helen Keays The non-executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet without theExecutive Directors being present.
In addition, the independent non-executive Directors, led by the SID, meet during the year as neededincluding to review the performance of the Chairman.
Board committees Membership of the three Board committees during the year ended Board effectiveness 27December 2015 was as follows: We believe that there are five key steps in creating an effective Board: Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee 1.
Recruit the right people We have a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment Stephen Hemsley Chairman of new Directors to the Board, overseen by the Nomination Committee.
Colin Halpern Foreach appointment, we develop an objective brief summarising the role David Wild and the skills and experience required and use an appropriate head-hunting firm with proven expertise in the relevant field.
As noted above, we take Paul Doughty care to ensure that we recruit on merit, from the widest possible range of Kevin Higgins Member Chairman backgrounds, recognising the benefits of diversity, and the search firms we 2 Steve Barber Member Member use are signatories to the Code of Conduct for executive search firms.
1 Chairman Before confirming an appointment, we check whether the preferred 2 Ebbe Jacobsen Member individual can commit to the time expected including, in the case of 2 anappointment to the Chairmanship, the need to be available in the event Helen Keays Member Member Member of a crisis.
3 Michael Shallow Chairman Member Member 2.
Make sure Directors have the right tools Notes: All Directors go through a tailored, formal induction process on 1 Member from 1 July 2015 and Chairman from 1 August 2015. joiningthe Board, including the opportunity to meet major shareholders.
Theaim of this is to ensure that they understand the Company and its 3 All offices held to 31 July 2015, when he retired from the Board.
business model, our strategy, the drivers of value in the business and Senior Independent Director the key risks we face, and that they understand the legal and regulatory environment in which we operate and their own personal obligations.
Michael Shallow was the Senior Independent Director until his Directors are expected to update and refresh their skills and knowledge retirement from the Board on 31 July 2015.
Since that date no Director on an ongoing basis, and to continue to build their familiarity with the has been formally appointed as SID, as noted on page 32.
Company and its business throughout their tenure.
The Company will provide thenecessary resources for developing and updating its Directors knowledge and capabilities, including access to our operations, staffand franchisees.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, and Reviews were also undertaken of the effectiveness of the Board the opportunity to seek independent professional advice at the Companys committees, of each non-executive Director and of the Chairmans expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities performance in that role.
There were no material issues arising as Directors or as members of Board Committees.
If Directors have fromanyof those reviews.
concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of the Company The Board last used an external facilitator for its 2013 review.
It is or a proposed action, they can require that their concerns are recorded intended to retain an independent external party for the review to be in the Board minutes, or provide a written statement to the Chairman, undertaken in 2016 and a selection process will commence shortly.
for circulation to the Board.
Ask shareholders to confirm appointments The Board is supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties effectively.
This is Ultimately, the Directors main responsibility is to promote the long-term provided in good time ahead of all meetings and decisions, and success of the Company, acting in shareholders best interests.
All of non-executive Directors are encouraged to seek clarification from our Directors submit themselves for re-election at each AGM, and we management whenever they feel appropriate.
provide shareholders with sufficient information in the meeting papers for them to decide whether their commitment and performance warrants 3.
Identify and manage any conflicts of interest a further year in office.
At the 2015, AGM each serving Director was Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts re-elected, with votes in favour exceeding 96% of those cast in all cases.
However, the Companys Articles of Association allow the Accountability to shareholders Board to authorise conflicts, where felt appropriate.
Any Director who becomes aware that he or she is in a situation which does or could The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements for create a conflict of interest, or has an interest in an existing or proposed considering how they apply the principles of sound corporate reporting, transaction in which the Company also has an interest, is required to risk management and internal control and how the Company and Board notify the Board in writing as soon as possible.
The interests of new maintains an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised These responsibilities are overseen by the Audit Committee and are ifappropriate by the Board at the time of their appointment.
explained in its report from page 39 onwards.
No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance The Board considers that the 2015 annual report and accounts, inrelation to the Companys business at any time during the year takenas a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides ortothedate of this report.
theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Details of Executive Directors are permitted, and where felt appropriate even howwe do this are also explained inthe Audit Committees report.
encouraged, to hold non-executive directorships outside the Group.
However, the Board would not agree to a full time Executive Director Remuneration taking on more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 There are formal and transparent procedures for developing policy company nor the chairmanship of such a company.
onexecutive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual Directors, which are overseen by the Remuneration Committee 4.
Formally check on effectiveness and are explained in its report from page 41 onwards.
Thisreport explains The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of how Executive Directors remuneration is designed to promote the long-term itsown performance in each year.
It also reviews the performance success of the Company and shows how the performance-related elements oftheBoard committees and the Nomination Committee reviews the are transparent, stretching and rigorouslyapplied.
Board and Committee evaluation considers the balance of skills, experience including familiarity with the Relations with shareholders Company and its business and independence of the Group taken as a We maintain a dialogue with shareholders throughout the year, whole, and also the diversity, including gender, of the Directors.
The whichwe intend to be based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
process also examines how the Directors work together as a unit, and The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, explores other factors relevant to effectiveness.
The Chairman acts and the Company Secretary all variously and routinely engage with onthe results of the performance evaluations as necessary including, analysts, institutional and retail shareholders and potential investors.
where appropriate, proposing new members be appointed to the Our aim is toensure that there are strong relationships, through which Boardor seeking the resignation of Directors.
we can understand those parties views on material issues.
Feedback is Individual evaluation aims to determine whether each Director continues provided to the Board, particularly where there are issues or concerns to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role and the Companys broker also provides independent feedback from including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings investors.
All brokers notes are circulated to the entire Board in order andany other duties.
that the Board maintains an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
In addition, the Chairman, the Chair of the Remuneration An in-house process was run for the 2015 year, with structured Committee and the Company Secretary meet with major shareholders, questionnaires circulated to each Director and the responses analysed principally relating to remuneration and governance issues.
The other by the Company Secretary.
The results were discussed with the Chairman non-executive Directors are available for meetings with shareholders and, subsequently, the Board.
These identified a need for the independent onrequest to the Company Secretary.
non-executive Directors to develop further in-depth understanding of the Groups business through a structured programme of visits and briefings, The AGM is treated as an opportunity to communicate with all of for the Board to define its remit and delegation of authorities more ourshareholders, and their participation is encouraged.
The Chairs tightly and for meeting agendas to then focus on matters falling within ofallBoard Committees attend the AGM and are available to answer the Boards agreed mandate.
Taken together, this will provide agreater questions.
An explanatory circular containing the notice of meeting is opportunity for the independent non-executive Directors toinfluence sent to shareholders at least 20 working days beforehand, with separate the Groups development.
votes being offered on each substantive issue.
All proxy votes received are counted with the balance for and against and any votes withheld announced at the meeting and published on the Companys investor relations website after the meeting.
co. uk also contains a host of up-to-date information on the Group.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37
