CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee report o to undertake formal performance evaluation of non-executive Directors who are standing for re-election and to ascertain whether the individuals performance continues to be effective and they demonstrate sufficient commitment to the role.
The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee were reviewed bythe Board in 2015, when it was concluded that they remained fit for purpose.
These terms of reference are available on the Companys investor relations website.
Chairmans overview The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that the Company has theright leadership, both on the Board and in the ranks of senior management.
This is a combination of continual review and monitoring, and also responding to specific situations as needed.
STEPHEN HEMSLEY Activities in 2015 NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Although the Nomination Committee met formally only once during the year, there have been four issues, including three important recruitment exercises, overseen by the Committees members, and in particular itsChairman: o the review of the performance of all the non-executive Directors MEMBERS seeking re-election at the 2015 AGM: o Stephen Hemsley Chair : o the recruitment of a Chief Financial Officer.
A brief was developed o Michael Shallow to 31 July 2015 : and the Nomination Committee retained Russell Reynolds, an o Ebbe Jacobsen appointed on 16 September 2015 : and executive search firm with no other connections to the Company, tomanage the selection process.
This resulted in the appointment o Helen Keays appointed on 16 September 2015. ofPaul Doughty to the Board on 8 June 2015: The Company Secretary attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary o the recruitment of a new independent non-executive Director, with ofthe Nomination Committee and the Chief Executive is expected the specific requirement that he or she should have the relevant and toattend whenever necessary.
recent financial experience necessary to chair the Audit Committee.
The majority of members of the Nomination Committee are currently A fuller brief was developed and the Committee retained Hanson independent non-executive Directors.
As noted on page 32, from the Green, an executive search firm with no other connections to the start of the year to 31 July 2015 there were two members, one of whom Company, to manage the selection process.
This resulted in the was an independent non-executive Director and from 1 August to appointment of Steve Barber to the Board on 1 July 2015: and 15September 2015 there was only one member, the Chairman oftheBoard.
o following the resignation of Paul Doughty, developing a further brief While the Chairman of the Board chairs the Nomination Committee for the recruitment of a Chief Financial Officer including implementing innormal circumstances, he would stand down in matters relating the points learned from that experience and instructing Russell Reynolds tothe appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
to undertake a further search, which remains ongoing.
The number of meetings held in the year and attendance at those Policy on diversity meetings is shown on page 36.
It is important that the Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable Purpose them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Nomination Committee has four principal duties: They play a key governance role in protecting shareholders interests by o to ensure that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments ensuring that the Board and management are challenged, constructively to the Board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate and effectively, and it is important that they do so from a range of perspectives.
balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the An important factor in achieving this effectiveness is drawing members Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board: from a range of backgrounds, which has been shown to help avoid o to lead the process for Board and committee appointments andmake group-think.
We are proud of the diversity in our business and we recommendations to the Board: recruit and develop people regardless of their gender, race or any other characteristic.
We are of the view that it is in the interests of the Company o where an external recruitment is required, to evaluate the balance to recruit and develop the very best people, drawn from the widest pool ofskills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and, of talent.
The policy of the Board on recruitment is always to seek to in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and appoint the best candidate to each role.
However, the Board seeks to capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Nomination achieve an appropriate balance of male and female members.
Committee would then oversee the selection process with the aim of ensuring that this results in an appointment made on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity onthe Board, including gender: and Dominos Pizza Group plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
