STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Audit Committee o consideration of the need to provide for a potentially significant employment tax liability that could arise from historic employee share schemes see note 1 to the accounts certain of the Groups historic share-based remuneration arrangements have received protective assessments from HMRC in prior years in relation to the employment tax treatment.
The Group has received professional advice confirming that no provision is considered necessary andtherefore, no provision has been made: o the appropriateness of assumptions in respect of accounting judgements this covered provisions for onerous leases, provisions against inventories, depreciation of fixed assets and the recoverability of receivables.
The Audit Committee, following confirmations from management and the external auditor, satisfied itself as to the reasonableness and consistency of these assumptions: STEVE BARBER o the carrying value of fixed assets including intangibles in respect AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN ofthe Groups Swiss business - based on managements forecasts, no provision was considered necessary: and o the Audit Committee is aware that the International Accounting Standards Board has issued a new standard for accounting for leases which will become effective for the year ending December 2019.
MEMBERS Although this standard will have no cash flow impact and minimal o Steve Barber Chairman : profit impact, it will significantly change the composition of the consolidated balance sheet by bringing some 250m of previously o Kevin Higgins: and unrecognised right to use assets and corresponding lease obligations o Helen Keays.
In addition to the members listed above, Michael Shallow served as These issues were addressed at the planning stage of the external audit Committee Chairman from the start of the year until he retired from and there were no significant differences between managements and theBoard on 31 July 2015.
Steve Barber joined the Audit Committee the external auditors conclusions.
on1July and became its Chairman on 1 August 2015.
Presentations from management and professional advisers Michael Shallow and Steve Barber are both chartered accountants The Audit Committee received a number of presentations from withconsiderable experience and the Board has determined they both management and professional advisers, including: possess recent and relevant financial experience which qualifies them to chair the Audit Committee.
Both Kevin Higgins and Helen Keays have o IT and cyber security the Groups system sales are highly considerable business experience which enables them to make a dependent on its e-commerce IT systems, particularly apps for positive contribution to the Audit Committee.
Although there can be no guarantee as to the resilience of the Groups systems to outside attack, the Audit Meetings of the Audit Committee have been attended by the Chairman Committee was assured as to the structure of the systems oftheBoard, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, tominimise such impact: theexternal auditor, the Company Secretary as Secretary to the Audit Committee and other Directors and members of management by o internal audit, risks and controls in view of the Groups rapid invitation.
The number of meetings held in the year and attendance growthover the past few years, it does not have a formalised internal atthose meetings in shown on page 36. audit function but has outsourced certain assurance activities to  PwC.
PwC were also engaged to ensure The Audit Committee has direct access to members of management that the Group complied with the new requirements of the UK and theinternal and external auditors.
It is able to seek further Corporate Governance Code in relation to internal controls and risk professional advice at the Companys cost if appropriate.
The results of their work highlighted that the Groups internal control environment was informal and often undocumented.
Significant accounting issues PwC were therefore engaged to improve documentation, working The Audit Committees reviews of the half and full year financial incollaboration with management.
Their work was completed by the statements focused on the following areas of significance: year-end and remedial action taken, but the documentation was not in o the accounting for the German business and the formation of the place throughout the year.
The Audit Committee is not aware of any German joint venture the financial statements show a loss of 9.6m fundamental weaknesses that would have jeopardised the Group and in respect of Germany as a discontinued business.
This comprises improved procedures are now in place to monitor risks and controls: trading losses of 3.3m and 6.3m in respect ofexit costs in respect of the changes resulting from the cessation of directoperations in Germany, including tax provisions of 0.9m.
Inaccordance with accounting standards, a credit to the profit and loss account will berecognised in the 2016 financial year in respect of the fair value ofthe consideration receivable from our joint venture partner: Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee continued Committee has recommended the reappointment of EY as external Presentations from management and professional advisers auditor to the Board, which has agreed torecommend this at the 2016 AGM.
continued The Audit Committee agrees the fees for the external auditor and o Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system in order to accommodate hasstrict policies regarding the provision of non-audit services by the the growth of the business, management is implementing a new ERP external auditor which can be found on the Companys website.
This will entail a complete review of each of the include specific pre-approvals for proposed work and fees, a prohibition Groups processes but should achieve improved controls and efficiencies, on certain services and a restriction on total non-audit fees exceeding the although there are inherent risks in such a transformation.
Third-party total audit and audit-related services, except in exceptional circumstances.
consultants have been engaged to assist in the process: and During the year, the level of non-audit fees payable to EY for 2015 o taxation the Group has engaged FTI to assist in the management increased significantly, as set out below.
ofits tax affairs and they reported on progress in improving the speed and accuracy of the Groups taxation returns.
000 Total estimated audit and audit-related fees 306 Internal audit As mentioned above, the Group does not have a formal internal audit Non-audit fees: department and has outsourced certain services to PwC.
This is a Corporate restructuring 60 reflection of the small number of Group personnel and the rapid growth Market survey 175 of the Group in recent years.
However, the Groups operational auditors regularly audit franchisees to support compliance with franchise Due diligence for German joint venture 35 agreements and brand standards.
Total non-audit services 270 Going concern and viability statement The market survey was performed by a newly acquired affiliate of EY who On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the Groups were best placed to perform that work.
This affiliate, prior to its acquisition projected cash flows, facilities and covenants as well as reviewing the by EY, had performed similar work for Dominos Pizza International in the assumptions underlying the viability statement and concluded that it US and commissioning of the survey was a natural development could recommend to the Board that there are robust reasons for it ofprevious work.
tobeable to make the relevant statements.
The Audit Committee believes that the non-audit fees were appropriate External auditor in the circumstances, particularly as EY has considerable knowledge of the Groups business.
In view of the new EU regulations and the Groups The Audit Committee has reviewed the independence, objectivity own policies, the Audit Committee intends that non-audit fees, which andeffectiveness of the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, have averaged less than half of audit fees over thepast three years, andconsiders that EY continues to possess the skills and experience should not reach similarly high levels in future years.
required to fulfil its duties effectively and efficiently.
The Audit Committees review of the effectiveness of EY as the external auditor is based on Fair, balanced and understandable reporting discussions withthe senior finance team, the robustness of the audit, The Audit Committee has provided advice to the Board on whether the quality ofreporting to the Audit Committee and reports published theannual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and bythe FRC.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders EY has confirmed that in its professional judgement it is independent to assess the Companys position and performance, business model within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the and strategy.
Each Director was also asked to provide this confirmation.
objectivity of the audit engagement partner andaudit staff is not impaired.
When doing so, both the Committee and the individual directors were provided with a set of questions designed to test the quality of reporting, The Audit Committee has held meetings with the external auditor and asked to satisfy themselves that the levels of disclosure were appropriate.
without management and there is regular dialogue with the audit partner.
EY has been the Groups auditor since 1997 and no competitive tender Terms of reference has been conducted during that time.
The lead audit partner is rotated The terms of reference for the Audit Committee were reviewed by the every five years, with the last change being after the 2013 audit.
The Board during the year, which concluded that they remain fit for purpose.
Audit Committee has not deemed it necessary to hold a competitive tender this year but, in compliance with the CMA Statutory Audit Services Order, the Group will put the audit out for tender in the 2017 financial year so as to at least coincide with the rotation of the current audit partner.
The Audit Committee believes that this is appropriate given recent and continuing Board changes.
Accordingly, the Audit Dominos Pizza Group plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
