70 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Audit Committee report Number of meetings held 4 in2015 The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to theCommittee.
Terms of reference The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
Following a review of the terms of reference in July 2015, minor changes were made to reflect the updated requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014.
Sound risk management and internal control systems are essential toenable the Group Attendance in 2015 toachieve its objectives, while proper Number Date Maximum of % of accountability toshareholders requires fair appointed possible meetings meetings a member meetings attended attended and balancedperformance reporting.
Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 4 4 100% Melanie Gee 1 January 2013 4 4 100% Role of the Committee The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight David Lindsell 1 December 2008 4 4 100% responsibilities.
Its primary functions are to: Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 4 4 100% monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other information provided to shareholders: review significant financial reporting issues and judgements The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees contained in the financial statements: deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes ofeach advise the Board on whether the Committee believes the meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members ofthe Board.
Annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups of the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Company Secretary and external auditor and review the effectiveness and their resources, as well as access to external professional advice.
objectivity of the external audit process: review the systems of internal control and risk management: and monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function which is provided by Grant Thornton UK LLP, review the internal audit plan, all internal audit reports and review and monitor managements responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal audit function.
David Lindsell Chairman Tim Cobbold, Melanie Gee, Tony Thorne, Committee all of whom are independent members non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that the membership of the Committee has the recent and relevant financial experience required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Attending by Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group invitation Financial Controller, Group Finance Manager, Head of Risk Management, External auditor Deloitte, Internal auditor Grant Thornton.
Governance Drax Group plc 71 Annual report and accounts 2015 Main activities during the year During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in accordance with an annual work plan, which is agreed in November for the following calendar year and reviewed at each meeting.
The main areas of work undertaken by the Committee at each of its meetings during 2015 are set out in the table below.
Meeting February April July November Item under Year-end review of Review of Senior Review of accounting Review of a report from review accounting issues and Accounting Officer issues and judgements management concerning judgements 2014 reporting impacting the 2015 impairment Consideration of the Review of a report from interim financial Review of other 2014 annual report, management covering statements accounting issues and financial statements and theadoption and Consideration of the judgements impacting preliminary results implementation of new interim report, financial the 2015 financial announcement UK GAAP statements and results statements Review of the Review of oil and freight announcement Review of systems of risk, effectiveness of internal risk management Review of a report from internal control and controls and Progress report on Deloitte on their interim consideration of fraud consideration of fraud biomass sustainability review findings Review of controls over Review of a report from reporting and Review of a report capital expenditure and Deloitte on their audit independent compliance covering biomass fixed asset management findings reviews sustainability controls Review of controls over Disclosure of information Review of the auditor Consideration of the stock management to auditors independence policy viability statement Review of the Assessment of Review of the requirements for 2015 composition and effectiveness of external whistleblowing Review of the Audit qualifications of the audit process reportingpolicy Committee terms of Groups finance teams Review of the Audit Review of an update reference Review of IT key controls Committees from theEthics and including cyber security effectiveness Business Conduct Review of the internal Steering Committee audit plan for 2016 Review and approval of the external auditors terms of engagement In addition there are a number of routine items which are put to each meeting as follows: a review of the minutes and actions from previous meetings: reports from the external auditor: the Committees rolling annual plan review: and reports from the internal audit function on the progress of their programme for the year including fee analysis and new internal auditreports.
The Committee continues to focus on specifically identified strategic risk areas, such as biomass sustainability reporting, as well as ensuring the provision of a core compliance assurance service.
No significant weaknesses were identified in any of the internal audit reports although certain improvements in processes and procedures were made as a result of reviews.
At its meeting in July 2015 the Committee received and reviewed an independent report concerning biomass sustainability controls.
The report raised no material weaknesses in policy or approach but did highlight the key areas of judgement and risk within the process.
Similar to routine internal audit reviews, certain improvements in processes and procedures were implemented as a result of recommendations raised in the report.
The Committee has a forward programme of specific review areas, with a focus on risk management processes and internal control systems, as well as financial reporting aspects.
In addition, the Committee reviews the Groups general internal control environment on an annual basis, including risk management structures, policies and processes, the overall financial control framework, key operational controls including production integrity and environmental controls and procedures in relation to bribery, fraud and any non-compliance.
At meetings in February and July 2015, the Committee reviewed the Groups Preliminary results announcement, Annual report and accounts, and the half-year results announcement respectively.
At these meetings, the Committee received reports from management and the external auditor on the application of accounting policies on significant estimates and judgements made in preparing the financial statements, and on the methods used to account for any significant or unusual transactions.
The Groups principal accounting policies and the accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions made in the process of applying them are set out in the notes to the accounts.
In respect of all such matters, the external auditor concurred with the judgements made by management and the Committee was satisfied that the accounting policies were applied appropriately and the estimates and judgements made were appropriate.
In addition, the Committee also satisfied itself of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor on the basis set out below under Independence of the external audit.
72 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Audit Committee report continued Reviewing the 2015 Annual report and accounts At its meeting in February 2016, the Committee reviewed the content of the 2015 Annual report and accounts, alongside a paper on accounting issues and judgements impacting the accounts and a report from Deloitte LLP setting out their audit findings.
The significant issues and judgements considered were as follows: Matter Issue and nature of judgement Factors considered and conclusions reached Impairment The fall in the Companys share price during the year has resulted in the The Committee reviewed a report from management, supported carrying value of carrying amount of the Groups net assets exceeding the Companys market by external advisers, in November 2015 that explained the assets capitalisation.
This is an indication that assets may be impaired.
impairment review methodology and how the cash flow forecasts utilised in the review had been prepared together with a critical As a result, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS, the directors conducted analysis of the key assumptions that underpinned them, including an impairment review in respect of the Groups assets.
They did so by comparing market benchmarking analysis where appropriate.
the present value of future cash flows for each cash generating unit with the carrying value of its tangible and intangible assets.
The report also included an analysis of reasonably possible sensitivities.
The assumptions that underpin such calculations are, by their nature, dependent upon application of judgement and are thus subject to uncertainty.
The Committee reviewed an updated report at its meeting in February 2016 that considered refinements in assumptions and key judgements up to the present time, as described in note 2.3.
After challenging management, particularly around the most material judgements relating to longer-term value namely levels of renewable support and future commodity prices, the Committee concluded that a reasonable, supportable and consistent approach had been taken in preparing the review and that there was no current indication of impairment.
Derivative The Group makes extensive use of derivative financial instruments in order to The Committee reviewed the Groups derivative position in February, Financial manage key risks facing the business and its balance sheet includes significant July and November 2015 having regard in particular to the critical Instruments assets and liabilities arising from derivatives which are stated at their fair value.
judgemental areas described in note 7.2 and considered the position Changes in the fair value of such instruments are recognised in the income as at 31 December 2015 at its meeting in February2016.
statement or the hedge reserve, when the specific criteria for hedge accounting are met.
Management explained the trends in market prices that underpinned changes in the fair value of the derivative portfolio The fair values for derivative financial instruments are determined using forward and highlighted any new types of derivative instrument for the price curves and, where an instrument incorporates an element of optionality, an Committees consideration.
Further in April 2015 the Committee considered the processes and The inputs to these calculations include assumptions regarding future controls that govern the Groupstrading activities in financial oil transactions and market movements, as well as credit risk, and are and freight products.
The Committee concluded that the fair value calculations had been performed in a reasonable and consistent manner based on quoted market prices as explained in note 7.2 and that the system of controls in place was fit for purpose.
Accordingly, it was concluded that the amounts included in the financial statements were appropriate.
ROC assets The Group receives ROCs for generating electricity from sustainable biomass.
The Committee reviewed papers presented by management The Groups balance sheet contains a material amount of such assets at the end at its meetings in February, July and November, which set out of December 2015. the current balance sheet valuation and the key underlying assumptions that drive the carrying value, including the ROC assets are initially valued at fair value and subsequently written to net assessment of likely future sales prices of ROCs.
At its meeting in February 2016, the Committee reviewed the These calculations require an element of judgement in considering probable specific assumptions that directly impact the amounts recognised future sales prices in the market.
in the 2015 financial statements, as explained in note 3.2.
The Committee concluded that the judgements made in valuing ROC assets were reasonable, supportable and consistent and that, accordingly, the values included the financial statements wereappropriate.
Fuel inventories The Group carries a material amount of fuel inventories predominantly coal and The Committee reviewed the processes, including judgements, biomass in the form of compressed wood pellets which are measured at the estimates and assumptions made, in respect of fuel inventory lower of their weighted average cost and net realisable value.
valuation at its meetings in February, July and November in 2015.
Whilst value is largely based on observable costs, the nature and characteristics At its meeting in February 2016, the Committee reviewed the of the inventories mean that determining the volume of inventory on-site at any position and specific judgements made in respect of the 2015 given time is subject to a degree of estimation.
Accordingly, while both coal and financial statements.
biomass stocks are measured using equipment regularly calibrated to industry standard levels of tolerance, as explained in note 3.3 the potential for actual Having challenged management on the appropriateness of results to vary from initial calculations remains.
the measurements used in determining inventory volumes, theCommittee concluded that the process and approach Stocks are surveyed at the balance sheet date by either an independent third followedby management had been performed in a reasonable party or electronic scanning equipment and provisions made where appropriate.
However, both methods rely on assumptions regarding density of the fuel surveyed.
In the case of biomass stocks, volumes are measured by reference to a heat based and two weight based systems.
The three systems produced somewhat different results and the lowest of these volume measurements was applied to the price history in order to determine weighted average cost.
Governance Drax Group plc 73 Annual report and accounts 2015 Explanation of the critical accounting judgements, estimates External auditor effectiveness andassumptions is set out in detail throughout the notes to the The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external consolidated financialstatements, with a summary on pages 104 auditor, Deloitte LLP.
This process incorporated feedback from to 105. management and key individuals across the Group, as well as its own experience.
The assessment considered the robustness of The Committee also reviewed the underlying process, internal the audit process, the quality of delivery of the audit plan, the controls, forecasts and relevant assumptions made in preparing quality of reporting on findings and recommendations to the the new Viability Statement, disclosed on pages 50 to 51 of this Committee and management, and the experience and expertise Annual Report.
Having challenged the assumptions made in this ofthe audit team and the quality of service provided.
process and considered the appropriateness of the three-year period of assessment adopted, the Committee concluded that Having reviewed Deloittes performance during the year and theprocess supporting the Viability Statement was robust.
satisfied itself of their continuing independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and In addition, other matters relating to the application of accounting professional standards, the Committee has invited the Board to policies or accounting treatment have been considered during the recommend the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor at the year at the February, July and November 2015 meetings, and again next Annual General Meeting AGM and a resolution to that effect at the February 2016 meeting in relation to our financial appears in the Notice of the AGM.
These included: the accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in Independence of the external audit relation to revenue recognition, retirement benefit obligations The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy the Policy, and taxation.
Further detail on these areas can be found in the inaccordance with which the Committee annually reviews the consolidated financial statements: and quality and cost-effectiveness of the external audit and the other accounting issues, namely in relation to application of independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Policy accounting policies or accounting treatment for capital can be found on the Companys website at www.
Where applicable our accounting policies are set out in the relevant note to the The provisions of the Policy include: consolidated financial statements.
seeking confirmation that the auditor is, in its professional judgement, independent of the Group and obtaining from it The Committee met twice in the absence of management with anaccount of all relationships which may affect the firms eachof the external auditor February and July and internal auditor independence and the objectivity of the audit partner andstaff: April and November.
No matters of concern were drawn to the a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct Committees attention at any of these meetings.
The Committees non-audit work under which: understanding with both the external and internal auditor is that, the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain ifthey should at any time become aware of any matters givingthem categories of work, including those where they may be material concern, they will immediately draw it tothe Committees required to audit their own work or make management attention via the Chairman of the Committee.
Nothing was subject decisions, or where the auditor would act in an advocacy to this procedure in the course of the year.
role for the Group: there is a clear process of approval for engaging the auditor Review of Audit Committee effectiveness by members to conduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to In line with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit financial limits: Committees, the Committee undertook a review of its own all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit work effectiveness and concluded that the composition of its are reported to the next meeting of the Committee: membership, the manner in which it operates and the reviews that the balance between the fees paid to the external auditor it undertakes throughout the year all contribute to the continued for audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee: effective functioning of the Committee.
and a policy on the employment by the Group of former employees Fair, balanced and understandable view of the external auditor, the essence of which is to require a The Committee reviewed the content of this Annual report and period of two years to elapse between the cessation of an accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, taken as a whole, it individuals association with the auditor and appointment to is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information any financial reporting oversight role within the Group.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
74 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Audit Committee report continued The Committee receives reports from the external auditor on its In addition, at the April and November meetings the own processes and procedures to ensure its independence and Committeereceived reports detailing progress in implementing objectivity and to ensure compliance with the relevant standards.
recommendations previously raised by internal audit.
Following the most recent of these updates in November 2015, the Committee Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the was satisfied that management is taking appropriate steps to deal yearfor audit and other services are set out in note 2.2 to the with the recommendations raised.
consolidated financial statements on page 114.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the The Committee periodically reviews whether the internal Group audit every five years and the current audit partner, James auditfunction is likely to be more effective or efficient if Leigh, is in his second year of tenure and took responsibility with providedinternally.
The Chairman of the Committee, independent of management, No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Groups choice of maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal and external auditor.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee on Audit tendering 22 February 2016.
In accordance with the requirements of Regulation 537 2014 of the European Parliament and Council we will put the audit of the 2017 financial statements out to tender later this year, with a view to making a recommendation to shareholders at the 2017 AGM that the firm selected as a result of the tender is appointed to audit the 2017 financial statements.
David Lindsell Internal audit Chairman of the Audit Committee During 2015, the Groups internal audit function was undertaken by Grant Thornton UK LLP.
The Committee receives reports at each meeting regarding theinternal audit programme and reviews undertaken.
Recommendations are made to management for process improvements as appropriate.
Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed by the Committee during 2015 included: Business continuity planning Key financial controls over expenditure, VAT and fixed assets Retail credit management Payroll taxes and Senior Accounting Officer controls
