68 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Attendance in 2015 Nominations Committee report Date Maximum Number of % of appointed possible meetings meetings a member meetings attended attended Charles Berry 15 December 2005 2 2 100% Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 3 3 100% Philip Cox 22 April 2015 1 1 100% Melanie Gee 1 January 2013 3 3 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 3 3 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 3 3 100% Note: 1 Charles Berry retired as a director and Committee member on 22 April 2015.
The Chairman of the Committee reports on the Committees proceedings to the following Board meeting.
The Committee has an annual programme of work which is designed to fulfil its principal duties.
This programme reviews: Re-election and appointment of directors The Committee met on 16 February 2016, following the completion of the 2015 Board evaluation process, and determined that all of the directors who The effectiveness of the Board is vital to are the subject of annual re-election will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for the success of the Group.
The evaluation of the Board described on page 69 Committee plays a key role in achieving this.
concluded that the directors offering themselves for election and re-election continue to demonstrate commitment to their particular role and to perform effectively: Role of the Committee Size, structure and composition of the Board At its meeting in The principal duties of the Committee are to: April 2015 the Committee reviewed the position of Finance keep under review the structure, size and composition of Director following Tony Quinlans intimation of his resignation.
the Board including the skills, knowledge and experience The Committee put in place a process which ultimately led to the required by it : appointment in November of Will Gardiner as Tonys successor.
consider succession planning for the directors and other At the same meeting, the Committee concluded that the Board, senior managers: constituted with four executive directors, four independent identify and nominate candidates to fill vacancies among non-executive directors and a chairman who was independent on the directors: and appointment, was appropriate for the Company at the time.
The review the time required from non-executive directors.
Board further considered the size, structure and composition of the Board at its meeting in November 2015 which followed the Philip Cox CBE Chairman completion of changes to the Groups management structure.
The Committee noted that Peter Emery and Paul Taylor were to leave Tim Cobbold, Melanie Gee, David Lindsell, Committee the Board on 31 December 2015.
It also agreed to recommend to Tony Thorne members the Board the appointment of Andy Koss, Chief Executive of Drax Power, as a director of the Company.
The Committee concluded Group Chief Executive, Head of Human Attending by that this revised Board constitution with three executive directors Resources.
invitation was appropriate for the Company taking account of the changes to the Groups organisational and management structure.
It also concluded that the Board collectively has the necessary balance Number of of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable it to meetings held discharge its duties: 3 in2015 Membership of Board committees It is the Boards policy normally to invite all independent non-executive directors to join The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Committee reviewed this policy and considered that it continues to ensure that each of the Committees is constituted with the skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable it to Terms of reference discharge its duties: and The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually Succession planning The Committee reviews the succession by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference plan at least annually.
The Group has a well-established and are available on the Groups website at www.
robust succession planning process which covers all Executive Committee members and their direct reports, as well as other individuals within the Group who have been identified as having longer-term potential for senior roles.
In the Committees opinion the plan is well prepared and appropriate for the size of the Groups business and management structure and there are considered to be a range of good candidates for senior roles.
Governance Drax Group plc 69 Annual report and accounts 2015 In addition to the regular programme of work, the Committee also The executive directors service contracts and non-executive considered the question of Board diversity in its widest sense, and directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by gender diversity in particular.
The Company has actively engaged prior arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys with initiatives promoted by the Department for Business Innovation registered office.
They will also be available for inspection at the and Skills to improve gender diversity at Board level.
The Committee venue of the AGM, prior to the meeting, details of which are recognises the strength that can be achieved through diversity in contained in the Notice of Meeting.
In particular, it is the Boards policy to ensure that the proportion of women is one of the considerations for It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will be Board and senior management appointments.
That policy is appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board implemented as part of the recruitment and selection process.
being satisfied as to the directors performance and commitment, Further details of gender diversity in the Group are included in the and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be renewed Employees section of the Sustainability review on page 38. by mutual agreement.
However, it is the Boards policy not normally to extend the aggregate period of service of any independent non-executive director beyond nine years, and any proposal made to Selection, appointment, review and re-election extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of office beyond Two new appointments to the Board were made during 2015.
Philip six years is subject to review, and will be conducted annually, as part Cox was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 January and of the evaluation of the Board.
was appointed as Chairman following Charles Berrys retirement from the Board following the 2015 AGM.
Will Gardiner was appointed The Board is satisfied that all of the directors are able to devote as a director and Chief Financial Officer on 16 November.
Andy Koss sufficient time to their duties as directors and there have been no was appointed as a director with effect from 1 January 2016. material matters arising during 2015 which would affect this.
The process to appoint Philip Cox was led by David Lindsell, theSenior Independent Director, and the process to appoint Will Performance reviews and directors development Gardiner was led by Dorothy Thompson, the Group Chief Executive.
The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
Russell Reynolds Associates and JCA Group respectively were The Committee initiated a review of the effectiveness of the Board, engaged by the Committee in relation to the process to appoint the its committees and individual directors during 2015.
The review Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer.
In both cases they assisted concluded that all directors have a positive view of the effectiveness the Committee in developing role and candidate specifications, of the Board and its committees and that all directors continue to identification of candidates, preparing long and short lists of perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
candidates, initial interviews and taking of references.
The There is clear alignment of the directors views of the Groups consultants presented detailed reports to the Committee.
Members priorities and agreement that the key decisions of the Board focus of the Committee met with each of the shortlisted candidates prior on those priorities.
Steps have been identified to improve processes to making a recommendation to the Board.
and operation of meetings to facilitate greater focus on priorities and strategic matters.
Measures have also been identified that will The Committee did not engage search consultants or advertise in improve the quality of information provided to the Board to enhance relation to the appointment of Andy Koss.
The Committee reviewed its consideration of risk impacts and mitigation measures.
the skills and experience required, taking particular account of Peter Emerys and Paul Taylors resignations as directors.
Andy has held a During the year, the Chairman held a meeting with the nonnumber of senior finance, regulatory and operational roles with the executive directors in the absence of the executive directors, Company and had been identified through the succession planning andthe Senior Independent Director held a meeting with the process as having the necessary skills, experience and attributes to non-executive directors without the Chairman being present, as succeed to a Board role.
The Committee recommended Andys required by provision A.
4.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
appointment in the best interests of the Company to ensure an appropriate level of continuity and consistency on the Board.
The Board is committed to the development of all employees and directors and has reviewed and will periodically continue to review The Articles provide that one-third of directors shall retire by each directors development requirements and make appropriate rotation each year and are eligible for re-election by shareholders arrangements to address them.
All new directors receive an at the AGM.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance induction, including being provided with information about the Code, the Company will continue to propose all directors for annual Group and their responsibilities, meetings with key managers and re-election.
Accordingly, each of Tim Cobbold, Philip Cox, Melanie visits to the Groups sites.
Gee, David Lindsell, Dorothy Thompson and Tony Thorne will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves In addition, each non-executive director visits operational sites forre-election.
Periodically, they also meet with senior management to be briefed on the Groups business and specific The Articles also require that, following appointment to the Board, Board training days are arranged, where appropriate, involving directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the presentations on relevant topics.
first AGM following their appointment.
The appointments of Will Gardiner and Andy Koss were made since the last AGM and, This report was reviewed and approved by the Nominations therefore, they will retire and offer themselves for election by Committee on 22 February 2016. shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Subsequent to the Nominations Committee review and approval The evaluation of the Board described below concluded that the of the foregoing, on 29 February 2016, the Company announced directors offering themselves for election or re-election continue the resignation of Melanie Gee from the Board with effect from to demonstrate commitment, management and industry expertise the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Accordingly she will not be in their particular role and to perform effectively.
The election or seeking re-election to the Board at the AGM in April 2016. re-election of each director is recommended by the Board.
Details of the service contracts for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are set out in a table on page 90.
Philip Cox CBE Chairman of the Nominations Committee
