56 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance Letter from the Chairman We continually work to ensure that our governance structures and processes are aligned with the requirements of the business and that good governance is embedded by management throughout the Group.
Andy Koss, Chief Executive of Drax Power, the Companys power generation business, was appointed as a director of the Company with effect from 1 January 2016.
Andy joined Drax in 2005, and has held a number of senior roles in finance and regulation.
He brings substantial experience and expertise to theBoard.
Finally, Melanie Gee will now be resigning from the Board immediately after the AGM in April 2016 and I would like to thank her for her valuable contribution over the past three years.
Succession planning and diversity Andy Kosss appointment to the Board demonstrates the effectiveness of the Groups robust succession planning process, which the Board and I consider to be vitally important to the future success of the business.
Refreshing the Board, and selecting the right individuals for the senior positions in the business from a diverse talent pool are key priorities for me and for the Board.
Dear Shareholder I believe that we have a strong Board with the right blend of Directorate changes skillsand experience to take the Company forward.
As the Group There have been some significant changes to the composition develops, we may need to add new expertise to the Board, and ofthe Board of your Company during 2015. through the Nominations Committee, we will ensure that the skillsand experience needed to lead the Company are Charles Berry stepped down from the Board following the Annual continuallyreviewed.
General Meeting AGM in April after six years of excellent chairmanship.
Iam delighted to have the opportunity to take over At the date of this report, 25% of the Board members are women from him.
Charles left behind a strong governance framework that and this isbroadly representative of the gender split across the works well both at Board level and throughout the organisation.
Diversity in its widest sense, including gender This framework has helped support the management transition diversity, will continue to be one ofthefactors that the Board will and will be fundamental to our meeting the challenges ahead.
take into consideration in making any futureappointments.
We have had a change of Chief Financial Officer following Tony The UK Corporate Governance Code and governance Quinlans resignation in May and the appointment of his at Drax replacement, Will Gardiner, in November 2015.
Our governance reporting is against the 2014 version of the UKCorporate Governance Code and with the exception of the We have also seen changes amongst the other executive provisions relating to tendering the appointment of auditors, directorshipsat the end of the year with both Peter Emery and Paul whichwas reported on last year and which will be addressed in Taylor stepping down from the Board.
Peters departure followed 2016, I am pleased to say that we complied with the remainder of thecompletion of the transition to the new executive management the provisions of the Code throughout the reporting year and up to structure introduced earlier in the year.
On behalf of the Board, the date of approval of this report.
More detail on our governance Iwould like to thank Peter for his great contribution over the last 11 arrangements is set out on the following pages.
He has been the key individual responsible for Draxs excellent operational and safety performance throughout its transformation to becoming a predominantly renewable power generator.
In Pauls case, I want to thank him for his contribution, and I am delighted that we will still have the benefit of his experience and expertise as he will be helping us on a part-time basis.
Governance Drax Group plc 57 Annual report and accounts 2015 As a Board we recognise that there is always scope for improvement Board and committee evaluation to make us better able to achieve our aspirations and deal with the I see regular and appropriate board and committee evaluation challenges we face.
To address this, we continually work to ensure asessential to improving board effectiveness.
During my first that our governance structures and processes are aligned with the yearin office, I felt it important to understand how the Board, requirements of the business and that good governance is itscommittees and individual directors function and therefore embedded by management throughout the Group.
At Drax we decided to conduct the evaluation process internally.
This will believe that governance is not only about following the rules, but thenprovide me with a platform from which to launch an also about doing things in the right way.
I believe that it is important externally facilitated evaluation next year.
for the Board to establish and lead a strong moral and ethical culture within an organisation.
The values of the Group are expressed as, Our 2015 evaluation is built on the previous years reviews honest, energised, achieving and together, or HEAT as it is known ofstrategy, objectives, performance monitoring, succession, within the business.
These values have been established for several management development, process and governance.
However, years, and are embedded throughout the organisation in the way this year the review concentrated on a broader approach looking our people go about their everyday business.
at the quality of the Boards work and addressing the manner in which the Board can operate most effectively to meet the This section of the report describes our corporate governance challenges of the risks facing the Group.
Later in this report, structure and processes and how they have been applied wedetail the methodology and outcomes of that process.
throughout the year ended 31 December 2015.
Key areas of focus My role as Chairman During 2015, much of the Boards attention has been directed to I see that it is my role to ensure that your Company has a the two key objectives of maintaining cash flow and profitability in Boardwhich works effectively under my leadership.
One of the face of the headwinds the business has faced, and ensuring mymost important tasks in this regard is to maintain the right that there is a proper process for the development of the Groups dynamics on the Board, which requires effective contributions strategy.
On the former, we took some important decisions andconstructive challenge from individual directors.
I am pleased including the decision not to invest the Groups capital in the to say that we have directors on our Board with a broad range of development of the White Rose carbon capture and storage skills, experience and attributes, all of which contribute to our project.
On the latter, the Board considered some excellent early effectiveness.
Communication and working relations between work, identifying potential strategic development opportunities.
Board members is good, open and constructive.
Closely linked to this was the work that the Board did to ensure that the role biomass can play as a renewable fuel in the My relationship with Dorothy Thompson, our Group Chief decarbonisation of energy is properly communicated and Executive, is positive and we are in frequent contact to discuss understood by stakeholders.
issues which the executive team deals with on a day-to-day basisand matters which need to be considered by the Board.
These will continue to be priorities in 2016.
The Board will AsChairman, I lead the setting of the Board agenda, ensuring we alsocontinue to monitor the embedding of the new executive haveadequate time to discuss all necessary items, particularly the management structure so that it is well placed to deliver our development and implementation of strategy.
Part of my role as objectives.
We will also continue to review the composition of Chairman is also to ensure that the Board is aware of the views of theBoard to ensure that we have the right balance of skills and shareholders.
The Company and its management benefit from the experience to meet the challenges we face.
support of a stable group of major shareholders who have been supportive even in the challenging times that have been principally outside managements control.
I have found this to be the case from the meetings Ive had with some of our largest shareholders.
Philip Cox CBE Chairman 58 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance continued The Board and its committees Our governance framework The Board Executive Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Business unit management More detail in the More detail in More detail in Boards AuditCommittee theNominations theRemuneration reporton pages 70 to 74 Committeereport on Committee report on Drax Power pages 68 to 69 pages 75 to 94 Haven Power Drax Biomass Billington Bioenergy management, and ensuring that Board processes are complied Role of the Board with.
He is also responsible for compliance with the Listing, The Board determines: the Groups strategy: appetite for risk: Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the internal control and risk management policies: Business Plan and Companies Act.
principal performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other significant transactions outside delegated limits: material The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the changes to accounting policies or practices: significant financial directors power to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Board has decisions: capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder adopted a procedure that has operated effectively, by which communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material situations giving rise to potential conflicts of interest are identified litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference and to the Board, considered for authorisation and recorded.
The membership of Board committees: and the Board structure, Articles also allow the Board to exercise voting rights in Group composition and succession.
companies without restriction e. g. so as to appoint a director to the Board of a Group company without this counting as a conflict Terms of reference requiring authorisation.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decisions and formal terms of reference for its committees.
These The Company has in place appropriate insurance cover in are reviewed annually and are available to view on the Groups respectof legal action against directors of the Company and website at www.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its Details of the selection, appointment, review and re-election committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in ofdirectors and of the performance review and directors General Meeting, are delegated to the Executive Committee or development is contained within the Nominations otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of delegated Committeereport.
authorities approved by the Board.
Composition How the Board functions With the exception of Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer whowas The Board receives regular reports on performance against appointed as a director on 16 November 2015 all of thedirectors theBusiness Plan and periodic business reports from senior listed on page 59 served throughout the year.
It also receives industry, regulatory and topical as a director until his retirement on 22 April 2015 and Tony Quinlan updates from external experts and advisers, from time to time.
also served as a director until his resignation on 31 May 2015.
Directors are briefed on matters to be discussed at meetings by Michael Scott acted as Interim Finance Director from 1 June until papers distributed in advance of Board and committee meetings.
15 November 2015 and attended meetings of the Board during that period, but was not appointed as a director of the Company.
Each of The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the those listed, with the exception of Peter Emery and Paul Taylor who furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice ceased to be directors on 31 December 2015, continued to be at the Companys expense.
During 2015, no director sought directors as at the date of the approval of this report.
Andy Koss was independent professional advice pursuant to the policy.
appointed as a director on 1 January 2016 and is still a director at the date of this report.
Biographical details of the directors appear on The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all pages 62 to 64. governance matters, ensuring good information flows within the Board, its committees, the Executive Committee and senior Governance Drax Group plc 59 Annual report and accounts 2015 2015 Board composition at 31 December 2015 Board diversity at 31 December 2015 Chairman 11.12% Male 77.78% Executive Female 22.22% directors 44.44% Non-executive directors 44.44% Directors Board diversity Philip Cox CBE Chairman In 2015, there were seven male and two female directors on Tim Cobbold Independent non-executive director theBoard.
Peter Emery Group Operations Director Will Gardiner Chief Financial Officer Number of meetings held Melanie Gee Independent non-executive director The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year.
David Lindsell Senior independent non-executive director In 2015, an additional meeting was held by telephone to Paul Taylor Group Commercial Director address matters requiring formal decisions.
Dorothy Thompson CBE Group Chief Executive In addition, the Board meets at least annually to Tony Thorne Independent non-executive director considerstrategy.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board.
Current directors tenure on the Board and age profile Current directors tenure on the Board Directors age prole 03 years 37.50% 4550 years 12.50% 36 years 37.50% 5055 years 50.00% 69 years 12.50% 6065 years 25.00% 912 years 12.50% 6570 years 12.50% Board attendance 2015 The table below shows the number of meetings and attendance at them by directors of the Board during 2015.
Maximum Number of % of Date appointed as a director possible meetings meetings 1 and member of the Board meetings attended attended Charles Berry retired as a director on 22 April 2015 15 December 2005 4 4 100% Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 9 8 89% Philip Cox 1 January 2015 9 9 100% Peter Emery 20 October 2005 9 9 100% Melanie Gee 1 January 2013 9 9 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 9 9 100% Tony Quinlan ceased to be a director on 31 May 2015 1 September 2008 4 4 100% Paul Taylor 1 September 2011 9 9 100% Dorothy Thompson 20 October 2005 9 9 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 9 9 100% Note: 1 The maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
Will Gardiner was appointed a director on 16 November which was after the last scheduled Board meeting held in the year and he therefore did not attend any Board meetings in 2015.
60 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance continued Committees of the Board in 2015 The table below details the standing committees established by the Board and the membership thereof: Audit Nominations Remuneration Executive 1 Committee Committee Committee Committee Charles Berry retired as a director on 22 April 2015 Invited to attend Chairman Member Tim Cobbold Member Member Member Philip Cox Invited to attend Chairman Member Peter Emery Member Will Gardiner Invited to attend Member Melanie Gee Member Member Member 2 Philip Hudson Secretary Secretary Secretary Secretary David Lindsell Chairman Member Member Tony Quinlan ceased to be a director on 31 May 2015 Invited to attend Member Paul Taylor Member Dorothy Thompson Invited to attend Invited to attend Invited to attend Chairman Tony Thorne Member Member Chairman Notes: 1 The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
In addition to those named above, Peter Bennell Chief Executive, Haven Power Limited, Andy Koss Chief Executive, Drax Power Limited and Matthew Rivers Director of Sustainability were also members in 2015, as was Michael Scott during the period he acted as Interim Finance Director.
2 Philip Hudson is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of the work of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Corporate governance Committees are given in the respective reports of those The Group is committed to high standards of corporate committees set out on pages 68 to 94.
The terms of reference for governance, details of which are given in this report.
thecommittees are reviewed annually by each committee and thenby the Board and are available on the Groups website at The various sections of this report contain in summary certain www.
provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act Time commitment 2006.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Under the terms of his letter of appointment, the Chairman is Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further expected to commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to fulfil information is required.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Under the non-executive directors letters of appointment, It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing on thetime commitment each is expected to give in respect of 1 January 2015, there has been full compliance with the principles of membership of the Board, is 12 to 15 full days a year.
That includes the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued in September attendance at Board meetings, the Annual General Meeting 2014, except in respect of the requirement to put the external audit AGM, one annual Board strategy day and at least one site visit out to tender.
The manner in which we peryear.
In addition, they are expected to devote appropriate have complied is demonstrated in the details set out in this report.
preparation time ahead of each meeting.
The time commitment On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board has expected in respect of their membership of committees of the taken the decision not to comply for the time being with provision Board, notably the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration C. 3.7. of the Code, to put the external audit contract out to tender at Committees, is an additional three to four full days a year in each least every 10 years.
A detailed explanation is included within the case.
Non-executive directors also spend time with management Audit Committee report commencing on page 70. in order to maintain their knowledge of the developing business and to understand the operational challenges being faced.
Governance Drax Group plc 61 Annual report and accounts 2015 The Companys private registered shareholders hold, in aggregate, Directors interests, indemnity arrangements and approximately 0.78% of the issued share capital.
The Board is as other significant agreements interested in their concerns as it is in the concerns of institutional Other than a service contract between the executive directors and corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put anda Group company, or as noted in the Remuneration Committee questions to the Board at the AGM.
Questions asked in person at the report, no director had a material interest at any time during the AGM will receive a verbal response whenever possible.
Otherwise, a year in any contract of significance with the Company or any of written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the its subsidiary undertakings.
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have an opportunity There are no agreements between the Group and its directors to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
All information reported to the market via a regulatory information service also appears as soon as practicable on the Groups website.
The Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive director.
None of the non-executive directors who have served The directors consider that this Annual report and accounts, taken during the year had any material business or other relationship as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the with the Group, and there were no other matters that were likely information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups to affect their independence of character and judgement.
The performance, business model and strategy.
Pages 1 to 55 provide Board therefore considers all of the non-executive directors an assessment of the Groups affairs.
The Annual report and to be independent, in accordance with Code provision B.
1.1. accounts is available to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Registered shareholders receive a Form of Proxy Relations with key stakeholder groups which provides for a shareholder to vote in favour or against, or to Communication with all our stakeholders is an essential part of our indicate abstention as an alternative on each separate resolution.
Some specific information regarding communications Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged are announced to the with investors is provided below.
Details of communications London Stock Exchange and subsequently appear on the Groups with other stakeholders are contained in the Stakeholder website as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
engagement section of this report commencing on page 42.
The Chairman is keen to ensure that he maintains an open relationship with the Groups major shareholders and communicates directly with them, offering the opportunity to meet any other directors in order that the Board can understand their views on the Group, be it corporate governance issues or any other points they might wish to raise.
The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from post-results investor meetings conducted by the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in the UK, Europe and the US.
These took place following both the preliminary and half year results announcements in 2015.
Makinson Cowell, part of the KPMG Group, is engaged by the Group to advise and assist in relation to communications with shareholders.
62 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Chairman Non-executive directors Philip Cox CBE Tim Cobbold Melanie Gee David Lindsell Tony Thorne Chairman Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Senior Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Philip has significant board experience in both Tims blend of financial and engineering Melanies blend of financial and corporate Davids recent and relevant experience in the Tonys experience of operating in different executive and non-executive capacities, and experience means that he is well placed to experience means that she is able to make a areas of finance and audit are a significant asset geographical territories is of great value to the extensive experience in the power sector.
contribute significantly to the Board and its significant contribution to the Board and its to the Board in his role as Chairman of the Audit Board as the Groups operations develop.
His role as a serving Chief Executive committees.
Her advisory role in a City financial Committee.
in a different sector provides an added dimension institution brings added insight to the Board.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: January 2015.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Nominations Chair and Remuneration Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Audit Chair, Nominations and Remuneration Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Chair Committees.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Talen, a US listed power generation company UBM plc Chief Executive.
Lazard & Co. Limited Senior adviser.
Premier Oil plc Non-executive director and South East Coast Ambulance Service Chairman.
Non-executive director and Chair of the Audit Standard Life plc Non-executive director.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Weir Group PLC Non-executive director and Cancer Research UK Trustee and Chairman of CPG, a joint venture between the Kuwait Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Investment Authority and Gas Natural Fenosa University of the Arts, London Deputy Chair apower generation company focused on ofGovernors.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive International Power plc Chief Executive Officer.
fide La Rue plc Chief Executive and an Lazard & Co. Limited A Managing Director.
DS Smith plc Chief Executive and an Ivensys plc Senior Vice President, executivedirector.
UBS Investment Bank Various senior positions in executivedirector.
Chloride Group plc Chief Executive and following Corporate Finance 1982 to 2007.
Non-executive SCA Packaging Limited President.
Emerson Electrics takeover of Chloride Tim held Financial Reporting Review Panel Shell International Worked throughout the a senior position in Emerson, responsible for the Non-executive Deputy Chairman 2008 to 2012. world in senior management roles, including Non-executive Chloride Group of companies.
The Takeover Panel Alternate member HellermannTyton Group PLC strategic planning and President of the Shell Meggitt PLC Non-executive director.
Smiths Group plc formerly TI Group plc.
PPL Corporation, a US-listed energy utility a number of senior financial and operational company Non-executive director.
management positions over an 18 year period.
Non-executive Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Non-executive Heoriginally trained as a mechanical engineer None.
director, Senior Independent Director and and qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1987 Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Wincanton plc Non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: MA in Geography.
BSc Hons in Mechanical Engineering.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants BSc Hons in Agricultural Economics.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Governance Drax Group plc 63 Annual report and accounts 2015 Philip Cox CBE Tim Cobbold Melanie Gee David Lindsell Tony Thorne Chairman Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Senior Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Philip has significant board experience in both Tims blend of financial and engineering Melanies blend of financial and corporate Davids recent and relevant experience in the Tonys experience of operating in different executive and non-executive capacities, and experience means that he is well placed to experience means that she is able to make a areas of finance and audit are a significant asset geographical territories is of great value to the extensive experience in the power sector.
64 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Executive directors Dorothy Thompson CBE Will Gardiner Andy Koss Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive, Drax Power Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: As Group Chief Executive, Dorothy is responsible As Chief Financial Officer, Will is responsible for As Chief Executive of Drax Power, Andy is for all aspects of the running of the Groups the financial management of the Group, and for responsible for the operation of the power plant business, including developing an appropriate relationships with the Groups bankers and and equipment.
This includes all aspects of business strategy for Board approval and financial advisers.
He has responsibility for the safety management, plant integrity, plant securing its timely and effective implementation.
Financial Control and Planning, Corporate operations, engineering support, maintenance She provides leadership to the executive team Finance & Investor Relations, Strategy & New and plant design.
He provides leadership of the and takes responsibility for the important Business, Group IT and Group Risk and Internal power generation business unit which maximises external relationships with customers, suppliers, Audit functions.
shareholder value by driving efficiency regulatory agencies and government bodies.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: October 2005, having joined the Group November 2015.
January 2016, having joined the Group in inSeptember 2005.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Executive Committee Chair.
Executive Committee and Drax Power Management Board Chair.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Court of the Bank of England Non-executive Qardio plc Non-executive director.
Johnson Matthey Plc Non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Dorothy will retire from the Board of Johnson Matthey in July 2016.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Executive Executive Executive InterGen NV Head of the European business and CSR plc Chief Financial Officer Drax Group Director of Strategy, Head responsible for the management and operation BSKYB Divisional Finance Director ofInvestor Relations, Group Treasurer and of four gas-fired power plants, totalling some Easynet Group plc Chief Financial Officer HeadofRisk 3,160MW of capacity across the UK and the JP Morgan Senior roles in the investment Provident Financial plc Deputy Group Treasurer Netherlands.
banking division, specialising in the telecoms and UBS, Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, Lehman Powergen plc Assistant Group Treasurer.
Brothers Various investment banking roles Coopers & Lybrand Chartered Accountant.
Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: BSc Hons and MSc in Economics.
BA Harvard College in Russian and Soviet Studies.
BSc Hons in Maths, Operational Research, MA John Hopkins School of Advanced Statistics and Economics.
International Studies in International Relations.
Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ACA.
Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers MCT.
Governance Drax Group plc 65 Annual report and accounts 2015 Executive Committee members Peter Bennell Matthew Rivers Pete Madden Retail Director and Chief Executive, Haven Power Director of Group Sustainability and Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Drax Biomass DraxBiomass Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Peter founded Haven Power in 2006 and was As Director of Group Sustainability, Matthew is As President and Chief Executive Officer of Drax instrumental in the companys entry into the responsible for the Groups sustainability policy Biomass, Pete guides the business strategy and Industrial and Commercial market, and the strategy and delivery of our essential assurance oversees day-to-day operations at two pellet development of the business.
As Chief Executive, in this area as well as for the Communications, plants and a port facility in the South Eastern Peter continues to drive the growth of Haven Public Affairs and the Regulation and Markets United States.
Power in the highly competitive electricity supply teams.
Additionally, Matthew was Chairman of market, providing the Group with a credit-efficient the US business, Drax Biomass Inc. ensuring route for its power and ROCs.
On 1 January 2016, good integration between the UK and US Peter was appointed Retail Director taking on business operations.
responsibility for both Haven Power and BillingtonBioenergy.
Appointment to the Executive Committee: Appointment to the Executive Committee: Appointment to the Executive Committee: March 2015, having joined the Group in April October 2013 having joined the Group in January 2016, having joined the Group 2009 following the acquisition of Haven Power.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Executive Committee, Haven Power Executive Committee and Drax Biomass Inc. Executive Committee and Drax Biomass Inc.. Management Board Chair and Billington Chair.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: None.
US Industrial Pellet Association USIPA University of Georgia Center for Forest Business Memberof the Board.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Executive Executive Executive Eastern Electricity Head of Sales & Marketing.
UPM Finland Director Overseas Wood & Plum Creek USA Pete has held a number of roles TXU Europe SVP Sales Operations, Head Biomass Sourcing, Director Energy Biomass.
including: Vice President, Renewable Energy and ofRetail.
UPM Tilhill UK Managing Director for the Supply Chain, Vice President, Operations Support UKs largest private sector forest management and Director, Regional Marketing, Operations, Non-executive and timber harvesting business.
Resource Management, Materials Management None.
Forestal Oriental Uruguay Managing Director and Corporation Planning.
responsible for plantation management and wood supply.
Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: MA Engineering, DipM, DMS.
Chartered Engineer, Member of the Institution of M. B.
M. S. Forestry University of New Hampshire.
Fellow Institute of Chartered Foresters.
Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
