58 Governance Audit Committee DEAR SHAREHOLDERS The Audit Committees work in the current year has been informed both by developments within the Group, including the increase in acquisition and divestment activities, and by high profile external events in corporate reporting.
Against this backdrop, the Committee has continued to conduct its usual oversight of financial results, internal audit reviews and the management of risk across the Group.
Meetings are scheduled directly around or before the end of the half and full-year, as well as before the publication of the associated half and full-year financial reports, so as to ensure the Committee is informed fully, and on a timely basis, on areas of significant risks and judgement.
The Committee has continued to monitor the evolution of the Groups financial reporting and control framework as well as overseeing the risk management programme.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code requires the Board to confirm that the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Under its Terms of Reference, following a request from the Board, the Committee undertook procedures to advise on this matter, Key responsibilities described in more detail on page 60.
The accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the Groups accounts.
External financial reporting and associated announcements.
The appointment, independence, Jonathan Nicholls effectiveness and remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Groups external Auditor.
The resourcing, plans and effectiveness of Internal Audit AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP performed on behalf of the Group Chairman of by a major accountancy firm currently the Committee Members KPMG, which is independent from 1 1 the Groups external Auditor.
Jonathan Nicholls Chris Britton, Ian Griffiths, Kathleen ODonovan, Louise Smalley The adequacy and effectiveness of 1 Ian Griffiths and Louise Smalley joined the Board on 23 June 2014. the internal control environment.
Under its terms of reference, the Classification The Group's risk management Audit Committee is empowered to The Group has continued to initiate future processes and performance.
seek independent external advice but work to restructure the business to evolve did not do so during the year.
and optimise the operational footprint and Review of matters relating to fraud and the support infrastructure.
"The costs of reports under the ""Speak Up!"""
SIGNIFICANT MATTERS these programmes, together with other The Groups compliance with the Code.
CONSIDERED IN 2014 15 elements of income and cost including The Audit Committees Terms In 2014 15, the Audit Committees work acquisition costs, impairments and gains or of Reference can be found at on significant accounting and financial losses on business disposals, are classified www.
com investors reporting issues included a focus on the as exceptional because of their nature, corporate-governance committees key areas outlined as follows: incidence or size.
The Directors believe that such a classification assists in the understanding of the underlying trading and financial results of the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 59 Key activities in 2014 15 Key priorities in 2015 16 Significant accounting and financial reporting issues: Review of provision of non-audit services.
Classification and presentation of exceptional items.
Carry out an assessment of the external Auditors effectiveness.
The carrying values of goodwill, tangible and intangible fixed assets.
Test whether there has been any impairment to the balance sheet and review going concern.
Review the Groups Key Risks and the reporting thereon.
Review and approve the half-year and full-year results.
Other recurring responsibilities: Review the Internal Audit report on internal control matters and review Effectiveness of the external Auditor and recommendation on reappointment.
Evaluate systems of internal control across the Group, including IT controls.
Review of risk management framework and reporting thereon.
Support the Board in responding to the amendments to the Code published Review of systems of internal control.
Advice on whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committee has reviewed in particular, supplier and customer Taxation the appropriateness of the income and rebates through routine reporting Taxation represents a significant cost to costs included in, and excluded from, and specific internal audit work.
the business both in cash and accounting exceptional items by challenging and terms.
The Group is exposed to differing AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS seeking explanations from management.
tax regimes and risks, and these affect the The Audit Committee meets with the The Audit Committee reviewed reports carrying values of tax balances including external Auditor to determine annually prepared by management and the external deferred tax and the resultant income their qualifications, expertise, resources, Auditor.
This work is a recurring agenda item statement charges.
The Audit Committee independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
in all Audit Committee meetings where the reviewed the tax charge, including the In addition, the performance of the external Audit Committee reviews reports prepared underlying tax effect, the appropriateness and Internal Audit functions is evaluated.
The external Auditor of tax provisions recognised, and the risks The Audit Committee receives written reports on these matters at the half and associated with them.
confirmation from the external Auditor full-year.
The Audit Committee is satisfied Working capital as to any relationships that might have a with the resulting presentation.
The Group operates from a large number bearing on their independence, whether Goodwill of locations, particularly in Europe, and, they consider themselves independent The Group has significant goodwill and as a consequence, has exposures to within the meaning of the UK regulatory intangible fixed asset balances.
Goodwill is the carrying values of working capital, and professional requirements, and on subject to mandatory impairment testing, particularly inventory and trade debtors.
their quality control processes and ethical which is conducted at both the half-year The Group has operating procedures and standards.
The independence of the and the year end.
Intangible fixed assets, financial controls to manage these balances external Auditor was confirmed as part tangible fixed assets and other investments and accounting policies to ensure that the of the 2013 14 tender process discussed such as associates are subject to testing carrying values are supportable.
The Audit on page 61. when there are indications of impairment.
Committee reviews these policies and In addition, in order to ensure the In undertaking the impairment testing, procedures to validate their appropriateness independence and objectivity of the goodwill is allocated to the appropriate to the evolving nature of the Groups Auditor, the Audit Committee maintains operating segments and the resulting business, paying particular attention and regularly reviews the Auditor carrying values are compared to the to policies that have been expanded Independence Policy which covers services relevant value in use.
The Audit Committee to address new circumstances.
These which may be provided by, and fees paid has reviewed the results of these tests, assessments take place on a continuous to, auditors.
The audit fee negotiations including an assessment of the robustness basis throughout the year.
are approved by the Audit Committee.
of the processes, the assumptions In addition to these key areas, the Audit The Audit Committee is satisfied with underpinning the values in use, and the Committee considered the Group's Deloittes independence and effectiveness.
appropriate sensitivities to changes in the accounting response to its own Under professional standards, the partner assumptions.
The impairment work, and development through, for example, responsible for the audit is generally the Audit Committees review thereon, acquisitions and disposals.
The Audit changed every five years: the most recent also considered the carrying values of the Committee also addressed external rotation took place in the prior financial year.
individual cash generating units within the events in corporate reporting including, operating segments with their values in use.
com 60 Governance Audit Committee continued THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ADDRESSED THE FOLLOWING KEY MATTERS DURING THE YEAR: June 2014 November 2014 December 2014 April 2015 June 2015 Key agenda items Key agenda items Key agenda items Key agenda items Key agenda items The Committee reviewed The Committee The Committee The Committee The Committee reviewed the evaluations of going concern performed a preliminary updated its review of undertook the Annual Report and Accounts and sensitivity analysis and assessment of significant accounting preliminary assessment in order to advise the Board in recommended to the Board significant accounting issues and judgements of significant accounting its assessment as to whether that the preparation of the issues and judgements for the half-year, issues and judgements the documents were fair, year-end financial statements for the half-year, and confirmed the for the full-year, balanced and understandable.
on a going concern basis including classification, assessments of including classification, Working capital, cash flow was appropriate.
impairment, tax, going impairment and impairment, tax, going and covenant headroom concern and pensions.
Working capital, cash flow were reviewed.
and covenant headroom Internal Audit findings Non-audit fees The Audit plan of the The Committee received were reviewed.
external Auditor was reports from Internal Audit responses to proposals confirmed.
The process The Committee received The Internal Audit on internal control matters made in the audit reports was supported by a Operational Review, and from the external Auditor reports from Internal Audit on issued by the function meeting in February internal control matters and including the Audit on the conduct of their audit, during the year were 2015 between the plan for 2015 16, their review of accounting from the external Auditor on reported, debated and chairman of the Audit the conduct of their audit, was considered.
policies, areas of judgement management actions Committee and the lead and the financial statements their review of accounting monitored for timely audit partner.
policies, areas of judgement and their comments concerning completion.
The Committee received risk and internal control.
and the financial statements and their comments concerning Report from the Group an update of the Groups The Committee considered Finance Director on key risks and mitigation risk and internal control.
the effectiveness of the the internal controls processes.
The Groups exceptional items external audit.
"policy was reviewed in order The Committee received The Committee updated to ensure appropriateness a report on 16 ""Speak its review of significant and consistency of the Up!"""
incidents, notified accounting issues and approach.
through the employee judgements for the fullhelp line service, and the The Committee considered year, including classification, follow up actions taken.
the effectiveness of systems impairment, tax, going for monitoring and reporting The Committee concern and pensions.
on risks faced by the Group, reviewed and approved and reviewed the Groups the updated Terms Key Risk paper.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Non-audit services and fees are reported NON-AUDIT FEES Group with regard to Deloittes appointment.
to the Audit Committee twice a year.
For The policy on the supply of non-audit guidance, annual non-audit fees payable to services by external auditors is as follows: The Audit Committee is able to monitor the the external Auditor should not exceed 75% The Group should not employ the Auditor effectiveness of the external Auditor both of the annual Group audit fee without prior to provide non-audit services where either through direct assessment and through formal approval of the Audit Committee.
the nature of the work or the extent of recurring activities.
The Audit Committee During 2014 15, total non-audit fees such services might impair the Auditors Chairman meets with the lead engagement were 25% of the annual Group audit fee independence or objectivity.
The external partner regularly and individual committee 2013 14: 40%.
In addition, 4.3 million Auditor is permitted to undertake some members are encouraged to, and do, meet was paid to other accounting firms for non-audit services, providing it has the privately with Deloitte.
The 2013 14 audit non-audit work, including 0.9 million skill, competence and integrity to carry out was subject to a review by the Financial for work relating to Internal Audit.
the work in the best interests of the Group, Reporting Councils audit quality review on, for example, advisory services and team, and required only limited improvements.
due diligence activities associated with The recommendations from the review have potential acquisitions and disposals and been acted upon.
major changes in accounting regulations.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 61 AUDIT TENDER POLICY In 2013 14, the Company carried out a competitive tender for the role of Statutory Auditor.
Following the tender process, Deloitte LLP were reappointed.
Deloitte were first appointed as external Auditor to the Group companies in 2006.
The lead audit partner rotates every five years and Ian Waller, the current lead audit partner, has been in post since 2013 14.
The Committee's policy is that the role of external Auditor will be put out to tender at least every 10 years in line with the EU and  now Competition and Markets Authority rules or at other times should specific circumstances require this.
In addition to the Audit Committee OPERATION OF THE AUDIT members, the Chairman, the Group Chief COMMITTEE Executive, the Group Finance Director, During the year, the Audit Committee representatives from Internal Audit and met four times and met privately with the the Group Financial Controller attend parts external Auditor after each meeting.
The of these meetings by invitation.
The Board Chairman of the Audit Committee also held is satisfied that Jonathan Nicholls and the separate private meetings during the year members of the Audit Committee have both with the external Auditor, representatives current and relevant financial experience from Internal Audit and the Group Finance as set out on pages 46 to 47.
The Audit Committee received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Groups executive compensation arrangements do not prejudice robust controls and good stewardship.
