62 Governance Nomination Committee DEAR SHAREHOLDERS The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in ensuring the Board has the right balance of experience and skills to support our strategy.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure their continued effectiveness.
Appropriate succession plans for the non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and the Groups senior management are also kept under review.
The activities of the Committee are described in more detail below.
Key responsibilities Gareth Davis Reinforcing the cultural and Chairman expertise diversity in the Boards composition, and maintain ongoing succession plans.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Considering ways to improve Chairman of diversity in the pipeline for the Committee Members senior management roles.
1 Gareth Davis Chris Britton, Ian Griffiths, Jonathan Nicholls, Kathleen ODonovan, 1 Further strengthening of the Miles Roberts, Louise Smalley senior management team.
1 Ian Griffiths and Louise Smalley joined the Board on 23 June 2014.
Reviewing the Groups talent management process.
The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference can be found at Board diversity committed to strengthening the pipeline of www.
com investors We have made good progress refreshing senior female executives within the business corporate-governance committees the Board during the year, which has and is taking steps to ensure that there are resulted in an increase in the proportion of no barriers to women succeeding at the female directors on the Board, from 12.5% highest levels within DS Smith.
Our current believes that a diverse workforce and Board gender and experience split is shown management team improve the culture on page 47. of the organisation and add value to the business as a whole.
We remain committed to at least maintaining this level of female representation in the Executive search firms medium term, while ensuring that diversity in The Board supports the principles of the its broadest sense remains a central feature Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of the Board.
The Committee will continue of Conduct on gender diversity, and is to consider diversity when recommending committed to only engaging executive any future Board appointments.
Final search firms which are signatories to appointments will always be made on merit.
No executive search firm was Despite the progress that has been made, retained during the year.
In the prior year the Committee is conscious that the increase the Committee used the services of Spencer in the proportion of women on our Board Stuart and The Inzito Partnership who have has been driven by the appointment of no other connection with the Company.
The Board remains Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 63 Key activities in 2014 15 Key priorities in 2015 16 Executive succession planning and talent management were a key focus of discussions Maintain ongoing succession plans.
planning Diversity is an important part of the considerations for any appointment.
Different Further reinforcing the cultural and expertise Diversity aspects, including professional background and experience, geographic cultural diversity in the Boards composition.
diversity and gender diversity were taken into consideration in relation to the Board Considering ways to improve diversity in appointments made during the year.
the pipeline for senior management roles.
Louise Smalley was appointed as a non-Executive Director on 23 June 2014.
Ian Griffiths was appointed as a non-Executive Director on 23 June 2014.
Further information about the Board's approach to diversity can be found on page 62.
The Companys strategy is taken into consideration as part of the succession Further strengthening of the senior Strategy planning process.
The senior management team was reviewed and areas of management team.
knowledge and experience identified that would assist the Company in strategic Reviewing the Groups talent development and delivery.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance Annual evaluation of the Committee Governance evaluation process described on page 51. in the first quarter of 2016.
Developing the senior Developing the future Board evaluation management pipeline We will continue to report annually against The Board and Committee evaluation Strengthening the pipeline of executive these objectives and other initiatives taking process is an important means of talent in the Company has remained a key place within the Company which promote monitoring our progress.
Full details focus during the year.
We are continuing gender and other forms of diversity.
of how we have progressed during the to learn and build on existing programmes year and full details of the 2015 16 The Board has made some significant while introducing new initiatives to build, action plan are on pages 51 to 52. progress against the key policy objectives broaden and develop the significant talent during the year, as highlighted above.
which exists across the business.
During the year, the business has continued Details of key initiatives include: to embrace all forms of diversity with the introduction or continuation of a number A comprehensive talent review of initiatives: presented to the Board annually, mapping successional candidates The annual Board evaluation process and opportunities across all senior includes an assessment of the Boards roles within the business.
diversity including gender, helping the Board to consider objectively its The Leadership Development composition and effectiveness.
Programme identifies and works with key senior talent across the business A number of programmes to help people to broaden their skill set and experience in our communities.
DS Smith is one of to ensure that they are well placed the founder members of the Nestl for future opportunities.
This has Alliance for YOUth, an alliance of leading been encouraged through greater companies in Europe which recognise boardroom exposure and participation that youth unemployment is a major in mentoring programmes.
social and economic issue and are committed to helping solve it.
