46 Governance Board of Directors and Company Secretary Leading change through good governance 1 2 3 1 Gareth Davis N R 3 Adrian Marsh G 5 Ian Griffiths N R A Chairman Group Finance Director NonExecutive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board on Appointment: Appointed to the Board on on 1 June 2010 as a non-Executive Director.
24 September 2013 as Group Finance Director.
He became Chairman of the Board on Skills and experience: He was previously Skills and experience: He is Group Finance 4 January 2012 and is Chairman of the Group Director of Tax, Treasury and Corporate Director of ITV plc.
He was at Emap plc for Nomination Committee.
Prior to this, he was 13 years in various senior finance positions Skills and experience: He is Chairman European CFO at AstraZeneca plc and CFO including as Group Finance Director from of both William Hill PLC and Wolseley plc.
Global Building Products at Pilkington plc.
Prior to that, he was at Ernst He was previously Group Chief Executive & Young, where he worked in the corporate N R A 4 Chris Britton of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
NonExecutive Director 2 Miles Roberts 6 Jonathan Nicholls N G N R A Appointment: Appointed to the Board on Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director 6 March 2013 as a non-Executive Director.
Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board Skills and experience: He is Chairman of on 4 May 2010 as Group Chief Executive.
on 1 December 2009 as a non-Executive Graze, and was non-Executive Director of Director.
He is the Senior Independent Skills and experience: He is a Alliance Boots GmbH for six years.
Before Director and is the Chairman of the non-Executive Director and Senior co-founding B&B Investment Partners in Audit Committee.
Independent Director of Poundland 2013, a specialist Investment Fund, he was Group plc.
He was previously Chief Chairman of Ellas Kitchen, Chief Executive Skills and experience: He was previously Executive of McBride plc, having originally Officer of Findus Group, Executive Board Group Finance Director of Hanson Plc and, joined as its Group Finance Director.
member and President of the Baby Division most recently, Group Finance Director of Old of Royal Numico, and also worked for Mutual Plc.
He is a non-Executive Director, Diageo in various general management Senior Independent Director and Chairman and marketing positions, latterly as of the Audit Committee of Great Portland Global Marketing Director.
Estates plc and a non-Executive Director Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 47 4 5 6 7 8 9 and Chairman of the Audit Committee of 8 Louise Smalley N R A BOARD TENURE AND BACKGROUND SIG plc and was a non-Executive Director NonExecutive Director of Man Group Plc.
13 years Appointment: Appointed to the Board on 7 Kathleen ODonovan 23 June 2014 as a non-Executive Director.
N R A NonExecutive Director Skills and experience: She is Group Appointment: Appointed to the Board Human Resources Director and an as a non-Executive Director on 5 December Executive Director of Whitbread PLC.
She was appointed Chairman of the She previously worked in the oil industry, Remuneration Committee in September 2013. with BP and Esso Petroleum.
Skills and experience: She is currently N R A 9 Matt Jowett Senior Independent Director of ARM Group General Counsel and Holdings plc and chairs the Audit Committee.
Company Secretary Engineering She was previously a non-Executive Finance Appointment: Appointed Group Director of Prudential plc, EMI Group plc, Commercial and general management General Counsel and Company Secretary HR O2 plc and Trinity Mirror plc, and Senior on 21 June 2011. International operations Independent Director of Great Portland Estates plc.
She served as a Director on the Skills and experience: He was previously Court of the Bank of England from 1998 to Group General Counsel and Company 2004 and was Chief Financial Officer of BTR Secretary of VT Group plc and prior to KEY plc and Invensys plc from 1991 to 2002. that he was Group General Counsel of N RMC Group plc.
He began his career at Nomination Committee law firm Linklaters.
R Remuneration Committee G General Purposes Committee A Audit Committee dssmith.
