P e r f o r m a n c B B d e. g m r o w r a t t a o e g r m e u d. B v R i i E v d e B M e M. M G T A g w m G r t M M R E A t g s m g C y T G T. r P H T e E a S a T g g l.. r n n l g g t a a i i m t t e d d d t S i a a m m g a r r n n. g T T t r r y e e v l i c p e F y e S T E w c r u S B c G m n s R U s M t t o a U G g T g a. U A n i r R A c n n e Y a i T g v. r b e n g a n o i m i t l d d t i g i a m g t n s n r. y y g T t a g i s l l o i t B b v p m o n a e t a r g r n e e d. i n a m t a J t A n y a s. N Y c G T g a m u r L U e t M M t p S U A m g o T G J. s R Y p u T g. n r r n g a m i o t o d d t i a m B g n r. C g T 48 Governance Directors' Governance Report GROUP ANNUAL REPORTING FRAMEWORK Financial results and reports Board meetings Sustainability governance Corporate planning cycle to investors Seven Board meetings a year Four Sustainability Divisional strategy Fullyear results Committee meetings development Group Management Halfyear results Board approval Team GMT Talent and performance Trading updates Eleven GMT meetings a year review process Budgetary process Talent and Divisional budget Trading meetings performance reviews development Each division provides Bonus targets and payments monthly updates Board approval Salary reviews Annual Report & Accounts 2015 r s a t e d B. l y u r g m o l s a t l t a e u r o m g r B d. w F D e E i C E v. G m E T g N M t e t M M U g T r m J B. G I E R T T g. r L n g a H m i r t a d e d t l s i f a m g u n y r. l e t a s g T r t e g N r O a V G. Y m t T g E A M t t M M s g T M m. B G u E n R T g. r o n g a m i t d B d t i g a m n r. g T B d. m r g o a t t a o r g m p d. B e M O r i C f L. I d T G. m R T g r O - M t t M P g e B T A y m. G E e v R i a T e g. r n r g a m i w t d d t i a m g n r. g T Governance 49 communicating effectively with required to update their full-year forecast, GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK shareholders and stakeholders.
which should be a balanced view in terms AND COMPLIANCE of both risks and opportunities.
The Our governance framework, which is Gareth Davis, in conjunction with Matt policies relating to financial reporting are shaped by the UK Corporate Governance Jowett, ensures that Directors receive a contained within the Group Accounting Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 full, formal and tailored induction to the Manual and the Groups Accounting and and secondary legislation, sets out Group and ongoing training as relevant.
Finance Policies, are available on the Groups standards of good practice in relation intranet.
This process is owned by the Group Group Chief Executive Miles Roberts to board leadership and effectiveness, Financial Controller.
leading the development of the Groups remuneration, accountability and relations strategic direction and implementing with shareholders.
The Company has Key responsibilities the agreed strategy: complied throughout the financial year The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief with all the provisions of the 2012 version Executive are clearly established and communicating effectively with of the Code.
shareholders and stakeholders: A schematic of the Groups annual reporting Chairman Gareth Davis overseeing business operations framework is shown opposite.
leading the operation and governance and managing risks: of the Board and its Committees as ROUTINE PROCESSES is the Director with prime responsibility well as building and maintaining an The Group annual reporting framework is for health and safety within the Group effective Board: designed to ensure that the Group and the and its subsidiary operations: and individual businesses have a clear in-year overseeing corporate governance building and leading an effective GMT plan aligned to the corporate strategy.
matters and ensuring they are addressed: which comprises the heads of the Results are closely monitored monthly and leading the performance evaluations Groups principal operations and compared with the agreed budget and the of the Group Chief Executive, functions and management of the prior year.
This ensures that management non-Executive Directors and the Board: Groups business.
is quickly aware of issues as they emerge and corrective actions can be implemented ensuring Directors receive timely, Miles Roberts is assisted in meeting his efficiently when required.
As part of the accurate and clear information on Group responsibilities by Adrian Marsh, Group monthly reporting process, businesses are business and that all Directors are fully Finance Director, and the GMT.
informed of relevant matters: and Board and Board Committees Nomination Audit Remuneration Annual General Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in 2014 15 7 3 4 5 1 Total number of meetings attended in 2014 15 Executive Directors Miles Roberts No 7 7 3 3 1 1 Adrian Marsh No 7 7 1 1 NonExecutive Directors Gareth Davis On appointment 7 7 3 3 4 4 5 5 1 1 Chris Britton Yes 7 7 3 3 4 4 5 5 1 1 1 Ian Griffiths Yes 6 7 2 3 4 4 4 5 1 1 Jonathan Nicholls Yes 7 7 3 3 4 4 5 5 1 1 Kathleen ODonovan Yes 7 7 3 3 4 4 5 5 1 1 2 Louise Smalley Yes 6 7 3 3 4 4 4 5 1 1 The Board held seven scheduled meetings during the year.
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
All Directors received papers for all meetings, and had the opportunity to comment in advance of meetings where they were unable to attend.
1 I an Griffiths was appointed to the Board on 23 June 2014.
He was unable to attend the Board, Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings in March 2015 due to prior business commitments.
2 Louise Smalley was appointed to the Board on 23 June 2014.
She was unable to attend the Board and Remuneration Committee meetings in January 2015 due to prior business commitments.
com 50 Governance Directors' Governance Report continued Senior Independent non-Executive Independent non-Executive Directors Group General Counsel and Company Director Jonathan Nicholls providing a strong source of advice Secretary Matt Jowett being available to liaise with and judgement: ensuring a good flow of information shareholders who have concerns that to the Board and its Committees constructively challenging and helping they feel have not been addressed and between the GMT and the nondevelop proposals on strategy: and through the normal channels: Executive Directors: providing significant external commercial conducting the annual performance facilitating all Director inductions: and experience and a broad range of skills for review of the Chairman: and the Board to draw on.
advising the Board on corporate providing advice and judgement governance and keeping the Board to the Chairman as necessary.
up to date on all legal, regulatory and other developments.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE ROLE OF THE BOARD Board and Executive Strategy Finance Risk and governance Major approvals Approval of the delegation Oversight of the management Approval of the Group and Approval of all key policies and Approval of major changes to the DS Smith Groups of authority between the of the DS Smith Group.
Company financial statements material amendments to those Chairman and the Group and ensuring that the Annual policies, including the Code of corporate structure.
Chief Executive and the Report is fair, balanced and Conduct, Health and Safety terms of reference of all understandable.
Determining the remuneration Setting the long-term Recommending or declaring Maintaining a sound system Approval of major policy for the Directors, the objectives and commercial dividends.
of internal controls and risk corporate transactions Group Company Secretary strategy.
Reviewing the performance of Setting financial KPIs.
Approval of any significant Review of the Groups overall the Board, its Committees and changes in accounting policies corporate governance individual Directors annually.
Succession planning and Approval of treasury policy.
appointments to the Board and senior management.
PRINCIPAL BOARD COMMITTEES: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Chaired by Jonathan Nicholls.
Role of the Committee Role of the Committee Role of the Committee The Audit Committee has responsibility for The Committee reviews and recommends to The Nomination Committee regularly reviews overseeing and monitoring the Companys the Board the framework and policy for the the structure, size and composition of the financial statements, accounting processes, remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Board and its Committees.
It identifies audit internal and external, controls and Directors and the GMT.
"The remuneration of and nominates suitable candidates to be matters relating to fraud and reports the non-Executive Directors is determined appointed to the Board subject to Board received under the ""Speak Up!"""
by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
approval and considers talent and The Committee takes into account the succession generally.
business strategy of the Group and how the remuneration policy reflects and supports that strategy.
For more information on the Audit Committee and For more information on the Remuneration Committee For more information on the Nomination Committee the Audit Committee Report see pages 58 to 61. and the Remuneration Committee Report see pages 64 to 78. and the Nomination Committee Report see pages 62 and 63.
All Board Committees have written terms of reference agreed by the Board and these are regularly reviewed and updated.
They are available on the Companys website at www.
com investors corporate-governance committees and on request to the Company Secretary.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 51 EFFECTIVENESS BOARD EVALUATION LIFE CYCLE The Board carried out an externally facilitated appraisal of its performance and that of the Chairman, the Board Committees Jan March and the individual Directors between March Action plan agreed Planning and scoping and June 2015, led by Margaret Exley from and implemented meetings held: SCT Consultants neither of who provided minimum every 3rd year selection any other services to the Company during Future process for external the year.
The evaluation consisted of a evaluator questionnaire survey of all members of 2016 Planning and scoping the Board, interviews with each of them, meetings held: observation of the Board at a normal Board 2015 minimum every 3rd meeting and an analysis of a variety of year selection process for external evaluator documents, including Board packs.
The 2014 review this year investigated a variety of aspects associated with Board effectiveness, being mindful of the work that is being done on best practice amongst Boards, and in April June Triannaully external particular the latest guidance for Boards Individual feedback evaluator attends and presentation from the Financial Reporting Council drawn Board and Committee to the Board of up as the Code and its recent updates and meetings advice.
The feedback was collated into a report and presented to the Board for discussion and the outcomes and action plan are outlined in the table on page 52.
All Directors and the Company Secretary April May participated in the exercise.
Next year, Questionnaires in accordance with the Boards policy, completed and one the review will be carried out internally.
to one interviews The evaluation found that the Board of DS Smith has real strengths in its clarity of role, strategy formulation, performance oversight, investment appraisal, stakeholder engagement and Board behaviours.
There is various aspects of the strategic development its broader view of risk, and identify more to do in rounding out the performance of the Group be developed.
a few areas for deeper consideration metrics and creating a robust talent pipeline through the year ahead.
The Board receives very good quality but Board members recognise these information to oversee performance.
Board papers are of a high standard and requirements and are working on developing Board discussions are focussed on the Board business is well managed.
Time these aspects of their work.
right aspects of developing performance is managed effectively in meetings and and Board members are fully engaged in As the Board evolves, it needs to broaden actions assigned and followed through.
An over-arching set its membership to keep pace with the Members could more proactively shape of key performance indicators and a more developing shape of the business, bringing agendas and, in meetings, should ensure rounded set of measures will enhance the on to the Board new members with a good balance of inputs.
very good work in this area.
industrial manufacturing experience as The Board committees are well chaired, well as a deeper international knowledge.
Risk management processes are sound their agendas reflect the developing needs The strategy formulation process is and much good work has been done on this of the business, they engage well with the considered to be sound, evidence-based over recent years including a strong focus full Board and decisions are made effectively and well executed through the corporate on embedding effective risk management and followed through.
Committee chairmen plan and budget.
It is recommended that a processes into the day-to-day culture of take full responsibility for their work and are more explicit strategy implementation plan DS Smith.
The Board should from time to active leaders of the committees.
with milestones and measures covering the time stand back from the process, consider dssmith.
com 52 Governance Directors' Governance Report continued BOARD EVALUATION ACTIONS AND OUTCOMES Area Actions from 2014 15 Areas for consideration in 2015 16 A more formal annual agenda was developed for the Nomination Over time the Board should consider seeking to Board role and Committee, to ensure that executive succession planning, diversity re-balance towards industrial, manufacturing and composition and internal support are properly considered.
The Board should consider holding a session on the strategic talent requirements of the business, to provide the basis for shaping the talent strategy.
Training sessions were arranged for Directors, in particular the The Board should consider establishing a more explicit Effectiveness members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
strategy implementation plan with milestones and measures which will enable the Board to be absolutely The membership of the Board committees was discussed.
It was sure that the strategy is being implemented to time and agreed that no changes were currently necessary but that this quality as agreed.
should be kept under review.
The Board should consider developing performance reporting to include a broader set of lead and lag indicators of overall performance, with an overview of the key indicators.
The Board should consider conducting an annual zero-based discussion on risk, building into the Boards agenda some deep dive sessions on areas of risk.
A programme of shareholder consultation meetings was held.
The Board should consider a potential prototype for Relations with broader stakeholder engagement, including sources stakeholders of data, and objectives for key stakeholders with accountabilities identified.
The programme of more structured discussions at Board dinners, The Board should continue to ensure the timeliness Board involving external contributors and other senior executives, of the distribution of Board papers and that all agreed behaviours and was continued.
actions have time-scales where appropriate.
Committees Support for the various Board Committees, including the formal Members should self-regulate to ensure balanced input training sessions mentioned above, was reviewed to ensure that to discussions.
each Committee was getting the right level of help and assistance.
Ways to improve informal communication between Board meetings, especially from the committee chairs and the Chairman, should be reviewed.
The independence of the non-Executive asked, at the start of each Board meeting, procedures are followed and, as required, Directors was considered as part of the to declare any interests that might conflict external advice at the expense of the Group.
The with the agenda items under discussion.
Following this evaluation, the Board non-Executive Directors bring a strong The Company has also put procedures in recommends the re-election of all the independent oversight to the Board and place via the Company Secretary whereby Directors at the 2015 Annual General following this years review the Board the Directors can notify any future conflicts Meeting AGM.
considers that all of the non-Executive or potential conflicts of interest that may Directors continue to demonstrate their arise so that the Board can consider whether In addition to formal Board meetings, the independence.
Biographical details of each authorisation is appropriate.
Any such Chairman and Executive Directors maintain Director can be found on pages 46 to 47. notifications are reviewed at the next Board regular contact with all Directors and hold meeting and, if considered appropriate, informal meetings with non-Executive Conflicts authorised.
Directors do not participate in Directors to discuss issues affecting the As part of our annual review process, the discussion, or vote regarding their own Company.
Individual Directors are encouraged during the Board meeting in April 2015 we conflicts.
If authorised, any conflicts are to make site visits during the year.
reviewed and reconsidered all situations entered in the conflicts register.
entered in the conflicts register.
Each of the SITE VISITS Directors in office reviews their individual Each Director has access to all information In addition to the site visits which formed position regularly and new Directors review relating to the Group and to the advice and part of the induction programme see case their individual positions prior to joining services of the Company Secretary who study on page 55, in July 2014 Miles Roberts the Board.
As a routine item, Directors are is responsible for ensuring that Board and Jonathan Nicholls visited the CHP plant Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 53 in Lucca, Italy for its open day.
Guided site They were given an overview of the with the managing director of UK Packaging tours were organised for both mill and business in the Benelux region and the for a presentation and discussion about power plant.
Open days offer the chance recent investments there.
During the business strategy for UK Packaging.
for employees to share their daily work factory tour, Miles and Jonathan were given Site visits provide invaluable insight into with families and allow the community to an explanation about the progression in the business for Directors.
learn more about the activities that happen both structure and productivity and the each day on our sites.
important focal points such as waste, OTHER BOARD COMMITTEES quality and services.
The Board has delegated certain powers, In January 2015, Miles Roberts and Jonathan mainly of a routine nature, to the General Nicholls visited the Ghent factory in Belgium.
Jonathan Nicholls also visited the Livingston Purposes Committee, which comprises factory in the UK in January 2015.
He met RISK GOVERNANCE READY TO LOOK AHEAD The Group continues to maintain rigorous procedures for understanding and managing its strategic risks.
We recognise that risks, and the way we manage their potential consequences, are part of our day-to-day thinking and key to accomplishing our strategic priorities.
Our risk management framework and the processes we put in place last year are operating well and serve to identify, assess and consider the possible remedies and responses to the principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces.
The Group continues to improve the management of its key risks and to hold a strong position to absorb the financial and operational impact should those risks materialise.
In doing so, the Board is encouraged by the continuing work across the Group and its Divisions and the investments being made in risk management and to see the growing interest and skills of our employees in this area.
The Groups risk and governance framework addresses two objectives: Ensures the Groups most significant risk exposures are Ensures regular reporting of both risk exposures understood and managed in accordance with an agreed and the operating effectiveness of the controls.
level of risk appetite and risk tolerance.
The Board The Audit Committee The Group The Divisions Considers and defines the Annually reviews the Continues to advocate Continue to identify, assess, nature and level of risk that adequacy and effectiveness the use of the General prioritise and manage risks the Group is prepared to of our risk management Management Team GMT as on a daily basis as a source accept in order to deliver system in relation to the the Groups risk committee.
It of sustainable business its business strategies.
key risks and uncertainties is essential that the GMT fully opportunity and competitive and their influence on understands what risks could advantage.
The responsibility The Board is responsible for the strategic priorities affect the delivery of our for designing, operating, maintaining the Groups risk of the Group.
The GMT is monitoring and maintaining management systems and responsible for identifying, effective risk management is regularly reviews the Groups reviewing, evaluating and delegated to the management key risks.
determining the actions of each Division.
Divisional necessary to manage the management teams apply Annually, the Board reviews principal threats to and judgement in the evaluation and approves the internal opportunities of Group of the risks they face to statements on risk appetite objectives.
It has the achieve their objectives.
and tolerance in relation to authority to prioritise risk They determine which risks the Groups principal risks related resources and set are considered acceptable and its strategic objectives.
action plans in relation to and assess the consequences the management of key risks.
of those risks while ensuring Each Division presents its the costs of the relevant risk management plans controls are proportionate and resources to the GMT to the benefits provided.
annually for critique and challenge for the proper allocation of resource.
com 54 Governance Directors' Governance Report continued of the meeting.
To ensure compliance with matters which are required to be brought the Group Chief Executive and the Group the Code, separate resolutions are proposed to it for decision.
The Board has delegated Finance Director under the chairmanship on each discrete subject.
All Directors will to management the responsibility for of the Group Chief Executive.
retire and stand for re-election this year.
establishing a system of internal control RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS appropriate to the business environments To reflect the voting preferences of all We aim to provide balanced, clear and in which the Group operates.
Key elements shareholders wishing to vote at the transparent communications which allow of this system include: AGM, the Company will take a poll on our shareholders to understand how we see all resolutions put to shareholders.
a clearly defined divisional organisation our prospects and the market environments We offer all our shareholders the structure for monitoring the conduct and in which we operate.
choice of submitting proxy votes operations of individual business units: The Company has a programme of regular either electronically or in paper format.
clear delegation of authority throughout meetings, site visits, results briefings and We also offer them the facility to abstain.
the Group, starting with the matters trading updates with its institutional The final results are published through reserved for the Board: shareholders, equity analysts and investors, a Regulatory Information Service and on which provide opportunities to discuss the the Companys website following the AGM.
a formal process for ensuring that key progress of the business.
All presentations risks affecting all the Groups operations At our 2014 AGM, we received votes given to institutional shareholders are made are identified and assessed on a regular representing approximately 74% available on our website, www.
com, basis, together with the controls in place 2013: 70% of our issued share capital.
along with press releases, transcripts, to mitigate those risks.
Risk consideration audio files and current and historic Annual Our next AGM will be held on Tuesday is embedded in decision-making Reports.
The Board also receives feedback 8 September 2015.
Full details are contained processes.
The most significant risks from major shareholders following the in the Notice of Meeting available on our are periodically reported to the Board full and half-year results.
Together, the website and, where applicable, posted and considered by it.
The risk process is Chairman, the Executive Directors, the with this Annual Report.
reviewed by the Audit Committee: Group Communications Director and the the preparation and review of INTERNAL CONTROL Head of Investor Relations ensure the comprehensive annual divisional and Board is briefed on shareholders views, The Board has overall responsibility for the Group budgets and an annual review such that any issues or concerns are fully Groups system of internal control, including and approval by the Board of the understood and considered by the Board.
financial, operational and compliance corporate strategy: controls, and risk management systems, In order to assist in developing an and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a the monthly reporting of actual results understanding of the views of major system, however, can only be designed to and their review against budget, forecasts shareholders, periodically the Company manage rather than to eliminate risk and including bank covenant headroom and commissions a survey of investors therefore can provide only reasonable and the previous year, with explanations undertaken by external consultants.
not absolute assurance against material obtained for all significant variances: The results of the survey are presented misstatement or loss.
In accordance to the Board.
an Operating Framework laying down with the Turnbull guidance, the Company common control procedures and policies The Senior Independent Director is has in place the procedures necessary to to apply throughout the Group.
This available to discuss with shareholders ensure that there is an ongoing process includes clearly defined policies for any major issues that cannot be resolved for identifying, evaluating and managing capital expenditure and investment, through normal channels.
the significant risks to the Group.
These including appropriate authorisation procedures have been in place throughout The AGM is used as an opportunity to levels, with larger capital projects, the year under review and up to the date of communicate with private shareholders, acquisitions and disposals requiring the approval of these financial statements.
including a short presentation on the Board approval: Our risk governance process, including business and current trading position, how it is reviewed by the Board and the regular formal meetings between as well as an opportunity for questions operation of the Group Risk Committee, the Group Chief Executive, the from investors to the Chairman of the is described in more detail on page 53.
Group Finance Director and divisional Board and the chairmen of the Audit and management to discuss strategic, Remuneration Committees.
All Directors The Board determines the objectives operational and financial issues: and make themselves available to meet and broad policies of the Group.
It meets shareholders after the formal business regularly and there is a schedule of Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 55 DIRECTOR INDUCTION On appointment, new Directors are given appropriate induction training, tailored to their specific needs, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience.
"An induction programme for Ian Griffiths and Louise Smalley, who joined in June 2014, included the provision of information on the Groups strategy, key risks and policies and procedures, individual time with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Company Secretary and key advisors, site visits to major business units and an opportunity to meet major shareholders. """
The induction process was very well structured and gave an introduction to all parts of the business, both with the central functions and opportunities to visit the business units.
"I received briefings from members of the executive team on key areas of the business including the internal audit function, the key risks facing the business, site visits and a briefing in respect of the corporate governance framework within which the Company operates. """
""" I particularly appreciated the chance to review the business strategy and to discuss with management the key issues and opportunities."
"I was impressed on my visit to the Impact and Innovation Centre when I was able to see how these plans are implemented and how they are able to delight their customers. """
"Ian Griffiths "" My induction programme took account of my experience and background."
My meetings with the executive team and independent advisors focused on a number of core functions which allowed me to explore the strategic and financial priorities of the Group.
My visit to the Fordham and Kemsley sites gave me a good perspective on how management operationalise strategy.
"I enjoyed meeting key talent within DS Smith, and the opportunity to deepen my understanding of key business issues and opportunities. """
Louise Smalley communicating key corporate management in which they were asked We have improved our dividend values through our Code of Conduct to confirm that their divisions have complied documentation for individual shareholders to all employees.
with Group policies and procedures and to in order to alert them to any unclaimed report any significant control weaknesses dividends.
This has enabled back payments The Groups Internal Audit function identified during the past year.
In addition, to be made to a number of shareholders.
undertakes regular reviews of the individual it involved reviewing the results of the work Details of the Companys dividends and businesses operations and their systems of the Groups Internal Audit function and how you can receive your dividend direct of internal control, makes recommendations the risk identification and management to your personal account can be found on to improve controls and follows up to processes identified above.
com ensure that management implements investors  the recommendations made.
DIVIDENDS dividends An interim dividend of 3.7 pence net per The Internal Audit plan is determined on a ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS ordinary share was paid on 1 May 2015 and risk assessment basis and is reviewed and the Directors recommend a final dividend Duropack approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal of 7.7 pence net per ordinary share which, On 22 May 2015 we received unconditional Audits findings are reported to Group and together with the interim dividend, competition clearance in relation to the divisional business management as well as increases the total dividend for the year acquisition of the Duropack business from all to the Audit Committee.
Subject of the relevant authorities.
The acquisition, The Board can confirm that it has carried out to approval of shareholders at the AGM to which completed on 31 May 2015, had a total an annual review of the overall effectiveness be held on 8 September 2015, the final consideration of 305 million.
of the Groups system of internal control dividend will be paid on 2 November 2015 StePac and risk management procedures, during to shareholders on the register at the close On 18 May 2015 we completed the sale the year and up to the date of approval of of business on 2 October 2015. of StePac, a non-core part of our plastics this Annual Report.
This included a process business based in Israel, for US $31 million.
of self-certification by senior divisional dssmith.
com 56 Governance Directors' Governance Report continued 2014 15 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS OTHER DISCLOSURES During the current financial year, the Group LIABILITY INSURANCE This Directors' Governance Report fulfils completed various business combination the requirements of the Directors' Report The Company has purchased and maintains transactions with total cash consideration for the purposes of the Companies Act appropriate insurance cover in respect of 28 million, and various business 2006.
The Strategic Report can be found of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The disposals with total cash consideration on pages 2 to 43, and encompasses our Company has also entered into qualifying of 18 million which are not considered Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
third party indemnity arrangements for material to the Group individually or the benefit of all its Directors, in a form and We have chosen, in accordance with the in aggregate.
scope which comply with the requirements Companies Act 2006 to include certain of the Companies Act 2006.
These 2013 14 information in our Strategic Report or indemnities were in force throughout the During the year ended 30 April 2014, financial statements that would otherwise year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
the Group completed various business be required to be disclosed in the Directors' combination transactions with total Report as follows: GOING CONCERN cash consideration of 27 million, and In considering the going concern basis for Subject matter Page various business disposals with total preparing the financial statements, the Important events since 23-24 cash consideration of 12 million which Directors have considered the Companys the financial year-end are not considered material to the Group objectives and strategy, risks and Likely future developments 25 individually or in aggregate.
in the business uncertainties in achieving its objectives SHARE CAPITAL and its review of business performance, Research and development 23 Details of the issued share capital and which are all set out in the Strategic Report, Use of financial instruments 31 the rights and restrictions attached to the Operating Review and Financial Review Employment of disabled persons 37 shares, together with details of movements sections of this Annual Report and Employee involvement 37 in the Companys issued share capital during Accounts.
The Groups liquidity and funding Greenhouse gas emissions 35 the year, are shown in note 24.
Pursuant arrangements are described in notes 18 to the Companys employee share option and 20 to the financial statements, as well The information that fulfils the schemes, 2,748,030 ordinary shares of as in the capital structure and treasury requirements of the Corporate Governance 10 pence each were issued during the year.
management section of the Strategic Statement for the purposes of the Disclosure 12,318 shares pursuant to the Companys Report, and the Directors consider that and Transparency Rules can be found on employee share option schemes were the Group has significant covenant and pages 44 to 63, and forms part of the issued between 1 May 2015 and 24 June liquidity headroom in its borrowing Directors' Report.
The Company has not facilities for the foreseeable future.
utilised its authority to make market.
After reviewing the Companys expenditure Topics discussed at 2014 15 purchases of shares granted to it at the commitments, current financial projections Board meetings 2014 AGM but, in line with market practice, and expected future cash flows with will be seeking to renew such authority at appropriate sensitivities applied, together this years AGM.
with the available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities, POLITICAL DONATIONS the Directors have considered that adequate No political donations were made during resources exist for the Company to continue the year ended 30 April 2015 2013 14: nil.
in operational existence for the foreseeable DS Smith has a policy of not making future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue Governance 15% donations to political organisations or Strategy 15% to adopt the going concern basis in preparing independent election candidates or Financial Management 30% the financial statements.
Operations 30% incurring political expenditure anywhere in Health & Safety Environment 10% the world as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 57 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 30 April 2015, the following information has been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
Ordinary shares held % Nature of holding Standard Life Investments Limited 131,664,570 13.98 Direct & indirect Old Mutual plc 47,403,372 5.03 Indirect Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 46,864,824 4.97 Direct & indirect The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 This confirmation is given and should DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION applies to the 2015 16 financial year and be interpreted in accordance with TO THE AUDITOR the Company will report on its application the provisions of section 418 of the Each of the persons who is a Director at the of this version of the Code in next year's Companies Act 2006. date of the approval of this Annual Report Annual Report.
The Code can be accessed confirms that: Deloitte LLP have expressed their at www.
willingness to continue in office as a s o far as the Director is aware, there is The trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust Auditor and a resolution to reappoint no relevant audit information of which the Trust, which is used to purchase shares them will be proposed at the the Companys Auditor is unaware: and on behalf of the Company as described in forthcoming AGM.
note 24, has the power to vote or not vote, b the Director has taken all the steps he By order of the Board at its absolute discretion in respect of any she ought to have taken as a Director shares in the Company held unallocated in order to make him herself aware in the Trust.
However, in accordance with of any relevant audit information good practice, the trustee adopts a policy and to establish that the Companys of not voting in respect of such shares.
Auditor is aware of that information.
The trustee has a dividend waiver in place Matt Jowett in respect of shares which are the beneficial Group General Counsel and property of the trust.
