GOVERNANCE Letter from the Chair of the Nominations Committee Marion Sears Chair of the Nominations Committee William Reeve was also appointed Going forward Dunelms Board will Dear Shareholder, in June, as a NED.
He has wide and comprise a Chairman, three Executive As you know we have worked hard varied plc and start-up experience, an Directors and five Non-Executive over a number of years to evolve entrepreneurial mind-set and deep Directors, four of whom are deemed to the composition of the Board so digital experience which will contribute be independent by length of tenure.
that it remains refreshed and has the to our multi-channel thinking.
We are therefore in compliance with appropriate skills to support the next governance best practice and, most chapter of Dunelms growth.
The In July, following the year end, we importantly, the Board retains a strong changes announced during the year, announced the appointment of mix of long-standing and new Directors and since the year end, represent the Keith Down as CFO.
Keith will join in as well as a blend of skills and a wide culmination of work over a considerable December and will bring a wealth of diversity of thought.
period of time to identify individuals experience in financial management who collectively will provide the next and retail.
We were able to manage I hope you have the chance to meet generation of strategic leadership that the timing of the search process to some of the new Board members before we need.
ensure that John was involved in Keiths long.
We have had a number of changes Yours sincerely, during the year but all of these have In September, following the year end, been thought about and planned by we appointed Peter Ruis as an NED.
Marion Sears the whole Board over months or years Peter ts our model as a working CEO in Chair of the Nominations Committee and, with the consistency of the family retail and he knows both large and small 10 September 2015 presence and the longer tenures of companies as well as the homewares Simon Emeny, Liz Doherty and me, we sector and fashion.
We are excited about the The process of considering and future and we are convinced that we implementing Board succession has have put together a Board which is every been complex.
Will Adderley returns to bit as collegiate, focused, determined the position of Deputy Chairman and and ambitious as the Board which has Geoff Cooper, our Chairman of 11 years, steered Dunelm since IPO.
and David Stead, our Chief Financial During the year we were sorry to lose our officer of 12 years both chose to retire.
NED Matt Davies when he took a new Their support and endless patience over executive position.
Matt was a strong their departure dates meant we could proponent of culture and he made a do the right thing for the business and significant contribution during his tenure.
manage the arrival of the new Board members whom we wanted to attract.
In April, we announced the appointment Geoff has been a model Chairman and of Andy Harrison, already a we have all learned a lot from him.
David Non-Executive Director, as our new has been a first class CFO who always Chairman to succeed Geoff Cooper, kept the respect and confidence of the with effect from 8 July.
Andy has been Board and his team alike.
It is impossible an outstanding CEO of three public to articulate the signicance of both their companies and he has a hard-to-nd contributions to Dunelm over the last depth and breadth of consumer-focused decade as the business grew in market experience.
In June, we announced the appointment of John Browett who joined on 1 July and who will become our CEO on 1 January 2016.
As part of our succession planning work we had got to know John some time ago and we were prepared to wait until he became available.
Johns knowledge and experience of retail operations and of our markets mean that we approach our future strategic opportunities with confidence.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 71
