GOVERNANCE Audit and Risk Committee Report 2014 15 SUMMARY Principal activities X Formal review of internal control framework X Formal tax policy adopted X Risk management process strengthened X Information Security Steering Group formed to oversee cyber security X Review of supplier income X Review of committee terms of reference This report provides details of the role of the Audit and Risk Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Principal duties The principal duties of the Committee are to: X oversee the integrity of the Groups financial statements and public announcements relating to financial performance X oversee the audit process X monitor the effectiveness of financial controls and the process for identifying and managing risk throughout the Group.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Groups website, www.
These terms were reviewed by the Committee in February 2015 as part of its evaluation process, and updated to reect the Committees increased responsibilities in respect of the annual report, and the regulatory requirements in relation to audit tendering.
The Committee has approved a policy which allows employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without fear of discrimination, including access to an independent whistleblowing helpline.
A copy of our policy is available on our corporate website.
During the year the Committee received reports detailing the calls made to the helpline.
Committee membership The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Name From: To: 1 Liz Doherty Chair 1 May 2013 To date Marion Sears 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date 2 William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date 3 Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 7 July 2015 1 Matt Davies 8 February 2012 8 January 2015 1.
Matt Davies chaired the Committee until 12 September 2014, when he was succeeded by me in a planned change to the responsibilities of NonExecutive Directors.
He resigned from the Board and the Committee on 8 January 2015 in order to take up a new executive role.
William Reeve was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 1 July 2015.
Andy Harrison stepped down from the Committee following his appointment as Chairman on 8 July 2015 after the year-end.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 43 Audit and Risk Committee Report CONTINUED The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Significant areas of judgement Within its terms of reference, the Committee monitors the The Chief Financial officer and the Chairman of the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim Board usually attend meetings by invitation, along with a management statements, including a review of the significant representative from the external auditors.
financial reporting issues and judgements contained in them.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial At its meeting in September 2015, the Committee reviewed experience by virtue of my professional qualication and my a comprehensive paper prepared by the Chief Financial previous executive roles, including as Chief Financial officer of officer, which analysed the Groups results for the financial Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
year: highlighted matters arising in the preparation of the Committee activities in 2014 15 Group financial statements: and provided forecasts to support Three meetings were held in the year and members the Directors going concern statement.
The Committee also attendance was as shown in the table below.
considered a paper prepared by the external auditors, which included significant reporting and accounting matters.
The major accounting issues discussed by the Committee were Name Meetings attended as follows: Liz Doherty 3 Provisions for inventory, returns and property Marion Sears 3 For each of the above, the Committee considered the Simon Emeny 3 approach taken by management and assessed available 1 evidence, including historical outcomes.
Particular attention William Reeve 0 was given to reviewing the provision for obsolete, slow-moving 2 Andy Harrison 2 or discontinued inventory and the pattern of stock clearance 3 Matt Davies 1 over the financial period.
The Committee concluded that the values recorded in the financial statements are appropriate.
There were no committee meetings between that date and the Complex supplier arrangements year end.
The Committee received a report from management on 2.
Andy Harrison was unable to attend the first meeting following his the nature and scale of supplier income.
The Committee appointment due to a pre-existing commitment.
He received papers and passed on comments to the Committee Chair.
noted that the main source of supplier income is through retrospective volume rebates, that these are not significant 3.
Matt Davies attended all meetings during his tenure.
in the context of the Groups financial statements, and that During the year the activities of the Committee included: managements policy for recognising such income is in any event conservative.
Routine Items Fair, Balanced and Understandable X Approval of the full year results issued in September 2014 and the half year results issued in February 2015.
At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered whether the annual report and financial statements as a whole X Review of the process for identifying and managing risk are fair, balanced and understandable.
Factors taken into within the business in September 2014, including a review account included: of the risk register, and a mid-year update of these in February 2015.
X Does the narrative of the Chief Executives and Chief X Verication of the independence of the auditor and Financial Ofcers reviews fairly reect the performance of approval of the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee.
the Group over the period reported on?
X Review of fraud and Bribery Act controls and cyber security X Are the narrative sections consistent with each other, and are standing agenda items for each meeting.
X Receipt of external assurance reports see below.
X Is the connection between strategy and remuneration clearly described?
Specific Topics X Can readers easily identify key events that happened during X Formal review of Internal control framework the year?
X Formal tax policy adopted Committee members received the draft annual report in X Risk management process strengthened advance and had the opportunity to make comments in X Information Security Steering Group formed to oversee advance of the formal meeting at which the report was tabled cyber security for approval.
X Review of supplier income Following its review, the Committee confirmed that the annual X Review of committee terms of reference report was fair, balanced and understandable.
com Stock code: DNLM 44 GOVERNANCE We have a relatively at management structure and all advisory External auditor work is required to be sanctioned by the Chief Financial 2014-15 was the second financial year in which the report and officer, who consults with me as Committee Chair if the fee financial statements were audited by , involved is significant or if there are any issues regarding following that rms appointment as statutory auditor in independence.
Much of the advisory work that we outsource is January 2014. tax related, and we have retained the services of KPMG for this One of the primary responsibilities of the Audit and Risk purpose.
Therefore we do not consider that any more complex Committee is to assess the effectiveness of the external audit guidelines are needed.
However we are aware that there are process and make recommendations to the Board in relation to proposals to require companies to set out specic services the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external which may or may not be carried out by their statutory auditor.
The Committee took a number of factors into account Once these have become final we will review our policy.
in its assessment, including but not limited to: During the period we paid  55,125, X The quality and scope of the planning of the audit.
In of which 17,500 related to a review of compliance with February 2015, the external auditors presented their pension auto-enrolment obligations that took place in 2014, strategy for 2014 15 to the committee.
The Committee and the remainder to follow-up work, including advice on reviewed and agreed with the external auditors assessment implementation of IT system changes needed to address of risk.
The Committee also reviewed the audit approach pensions auto-enrolment.
The original assignment was agreed and the approach to assessing materiality for the Group.
prior to the appointment of  as auditors.
X The quality of reports provided to the Committee and the Board and the quality of advice given: Fees paid to  for audit work were X The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups 72,000. businesses and the retail sector: Auditor rotation X The objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls Last year we adopted a policy to tender the statutory audit at around the Group and the robustness of challenge and least every five years going forward.
This means that the next findings on areas which required management judgment.
tender will be for the 2018 19 audit at the latest.
We will also The fee paid to  for the statutory audit invite at least one rm outside the Big Four to participate in of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit the tender process.
of Group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation was 72,000.
A Internal audit external assurance breakdown of non-audit fees paid to  The Committee initiated a formalised programme in 2013 during the financial year is set out below.
with activities conducted either by an internal team that is  attended the Committee meetings in independent of the area under review, or by an external party, September 2014 and February 2015.
The Committee also met decided on a case by case basis.
In either case, the review is privately with them during the meeting, and as Chair of the conducted on behalf of the Committee and reports back to Committee I had dialogue with the audit partner on a number them.
In February 2015 the Committee discussed and agreed of occasions.
that this approach to internal audit remains satisfactory.
Resolutions to reappoint  as auditors Topics reviewed in the year are set out below: and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Review topic Reviewed by Use of auditors for non-audit work Compliance with RTI reporting obligations KPMG The Committee is aware that the use of audit rms for nonAccuracy of VAT returns KPMG audit work is a sensitive issue for investors and corporate governance analysts, as it could potentially give rise to a Product Quality procedures Intertek conict of interest.
Reports were discussed by the Committee and the Board and a Our policy is simple we will only use auditors for non-audit number of actions agreed to improve controls.
work if: In addition, the Committee monitored progress against actions X they offer demonstrably better capability or lower cost than agreed following the reports received in the 2013-14 financial alternative providers: and year from external assurance providers in relation to business continuity, pensions auto-enrolment and payment controls.
All X there is no potential conict with the independence of the agreed actions are now completed, with business continuity audit.
remaining as a standing agenda item for the Committee.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 45 Audit and Risk Committee Report CONTINUED Internal control framework Risk management process Dunelms business has a relatively low level of complexity, As noted in the Corporate Governance Report, we have also and a simple management structure.
As a result, the Groups strengthened our risk management process, with the creation system of internal control, which is described in the Corporate of a Risk Forum to oversee the identication and management Governance Report on page 41 has not previously been of risks throughout the Group, and by increasing the time documented.
This year the Committee decided that it would spent by the Executive Board in reviewing key risks.
be appropriate to document the control framework, in order to The Committee formally reviewed the process in place for the identify any potential control gaps, and to anticipate potential identication and management of risks in September 2014, control challenges as the Group embarks on the next stage of and confirmed that it is appropriate and in compliance with its ambitious growth strategy.
The following areas have been assessed: business ethics This report was reviewed and approved by the Committee on including anti-bribery controls: accountabilities: people 10 September 2015. management, including succession planning, development and alignment of incentives: risk management processes: Liz Doherty internal control: crisis management: monitoring and reporting.
Although no significant control weaknesses have been Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee identied, a number of actions have been agreed as a result of 10 September 2015 the review.
Tax policy Dunelm has a simple corporate structure, and its activities are almost all UK based.
It has also adopted a relatively conservative approach to tax planning.
Previously we have therefore not considered that it is necessary to adopt a formal tax policy.
This year the Committee decided that it would be appropriate to do so, to support the Groups strategy.
This is to ensure that our approach to tax is consistent with our business strategy and the Boards appetite for risk and approach to risk management.
The policy covers the following taxes: corporation tax: VAT: employment taxes: insurance premium tax: stamp duty and other property taxes: customs and excise duties.
The policy will be reviewed annually by the Committee.
Information security Information security remains one of the most important risk areas and it is a standing Committee agenda item, as well as being one of the key risks reviewed by the Executive Board.
In September 2014 we set up an Information Security Steering Group to oversee this area.
The Group comprises senior representatives from the IT, Finance, Legal and People departments, and is chaired by our Head of People, to ensure that it covers information management in the widest sense IT systems, data protection and condentiality.
The Steering Group has assessed our compliance against the ISO27001 Security Standards and a number of actions are being progressed, particularly to address education and awareness.
The Committee receives an update from this Steering Group at each meeting.
