Letter from the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Liz Doherty Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Our programme of internal audit Dear Shareholder, activity, supported by external assurance This is my first report as Chair of the providers, continued throughout the Audit and Risk Committee, a role which year.
Specic reviews of the following I assumed on 12 September 2014.
I topics were conducted: compliance thank Matt Davies for the work that he with HMRC Real Time Information RTI carried out to strengthen the role of reporting requirements, accuracy of VAT the committee under his tenure, as the returns, and adequacy of our Product Group continues to grow and evolve.
Under the leadership of Will Adderley In the light of industry concern about there has been a new emphasis on the treatment of supplier discounts growth in the Groups strategy.
In and rebates, we have also specically addition, regulators have continued their reviewed this area although is not focus on the work of audit committees.
significant to Dunelm in profit terms.
In response to these factors we have continued to look at ways in which We paid our auditors we can improve our controls and risk  advisory fees of management: 55,125 in the financial year, as against the audit fee of 72,000.
This relates X We have carried out two specic to work commissioned prior to their pieces of work in the year to reinforce appointment as auditor.
A breakdown of our controls for the next phase of our the fees paid is provided in the report.
growth: Looking forward, a key focus for the we have formally adopted a tax committee in the coming year will be strategy: and to support the incoming Chief Financial we have carried out a review of officer, Keith Down.
We will also our internal control framework.
consider how best to report against the X As noted in the Corporate 2014 Corporate Governance Code, and Governance Report, we have also work will be conducted to support our strengthened our risk management statements on long term viability, going process, with the creation of a Risk concern and risk management.
Forum within the business to oversee I look forward to meeting shareholders at the identication and management the AGM.
of risks throughout the Group, and by increasing the time spent by the Yours sincerely, Executive Board in reviewing key risks.
Liz Doherty X All businesses continue to be Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee exposed to cyber risks, and we have 10 September 2015 created an Information Security Steering Group to oversee our approach to this threat.
This Steering Group has assessed our approach against an industry standard and developed a programme of activity to improve how we manage this risk.
