Corporate Governance Report 2014 15 SUMMARY Principal activities Board membership: Since the year end: X 1 September 2014 Andy Harrison appointed to X 8 July 2015 Andy Harrison succeeded Geoff Cooper the Board as Non-Executive Director as Chairman X 10 September 2014 Nick Wharton resigned from X 9 July 2015 Announced that Keith Down will the Board as Chief Executive succeed David Stead as CFO in December X 11 September 2014 Will Adderley reappointed as X 10 September 2015 Peter Ruis appointed as a NonChief Executive Executive Director X 12 September 2014 Change of Non-Executive Strategy: Director responsibilities X 8 January 2015 David Stead announced intention X 11 February 2015 Launch of refreshed three pillar to retire as Chief Financial officer growth strategy X 8 January 2015 Matt Davies resigned as NonX 11 February 2015 New capital policy announced Executive Director X 24 March 2015 Return of 70 pence per share to X 1 July 2015 John Browett appointed as Chief shareholders by way of a B C share scheme.
Executive Designate X 1 July 2015 William Reeve appointed as NonExecutive Director OVERVIEW Our approach to governance can be summarised as follows: X We believe that good governance leads to stronger value creation and lower risks for shareholders.
X It is the Boards responsibility to instil and maintain a culture of honesty, integrity and transparency throughout the business, through our policies, communications and by the way in which we act.
X We support corporate governance guidelines and apply them in a way that is meaningful to our business and consistent with our culture and values.
X If we decide that the interests of the Company and its shareholders can be better served by doing things in a different way, we will explain the reasons why.
For more information please see the copy of the presentations that we made to our major institutional investors and shareholder representatives in January 2012, 2013 and 2014, available in the Reports and Presentations section of our corporate website.
As a non-independent Non-Executive Director, for the Code compliance purposes of Board balance Marion is counted with the This report explains how we have applied the principles of Executive Directors.
Thus at the date of this report excluding good governance and code of best practice set out in the the Chairman we have four Executives non-independent Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 Non-Executives, and four independent Non-Executives.
Marion has chaired the Remuneration Committee since At the end of the financial year, the Board considers that it has 8 January 2015, and has been a member of the Audit and fully complied with the Corporate Governance Code.
Risk Committee during the period.
She will retire as Chair From the date of this report, Marion Sears, who has served of the Remuneration Committee on 11 September 2015, more than nine years on the Board, is no longer being treated but will remain a member of both committees as well as by the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director for Chair of the Nominations Committee at the request of the the purposes of the Code.
The Board, our majority shareholder Board.
Although the Corporate Governance Code states that and our largest institutional shareholders support her members of the Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration continued Board and committee membership.
Marion will put Committees should be independent non-executives only, the herself forward for reappointment at the AGM by shareholders Board considers that Marion contributes fully and effectively independent of the Adderley family as well as a full shareholder to the work of the Board and its committees and that there vote to ensure that the Boards assessment continues to be is sufficient independent representation from the other supported by shareholders.
com Stock code: DNLM 34 GOVERNANCE Board role and composition The Board has three roles: STRATEGY GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE Set the strategy that will secure the Review progress towards Instil and maintain a culture of continued growth of the Group strategic goals and management honesty, integrity and transparency.
over the long term in the interests performance.
Ensure that financial and other of its shareholders, taking account controls and processes for risk of our responsibilities to colleagues, management are in place and customers, the community in which working effectively.
we operate and the interests of our Set an effective remuneration policy.
Maintain good relationships with Ensure that resources are in place to shareholders.
Board balance and with the exception noted above committee membership is fully compliant with the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
The Board structure at the date of this report is shown below: Andy Harrison Chairman Executives Non-Independents Independent Non-Executives Simon Emeny Senior Independent Director Will Adderley Chief Executive John Browett Chief Executive Designate Liz Doherty Non-Executive Director David Stead Chief Financial officer William Reeve Non-Executive Director Marion Sears Non-Executive Director Peter Ruis Non-Executive Director The names and roles of each of the Directors during the period are set out in the table below.
Name Position at period end Committee Chair Note Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman None Retired from the Board on 7 July 2015 after the period end.
Non-Executive Director None Andy Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2014.
Harrison Succeeded Geoff Cooper as Chairman on 8 July 2015.
Chief Executive None Appointed Chief Executive on 11 September 2014.
Prior to that he was Deputy Will Adderley Chairman.
Will revert to Deputy Chairman when John Browett succeeds him as Chief Executive John Browett Chief Executive Designate None Appointed 1 July 2015.
Will become Chief Executive on 1 January 2016.
Finance Director None David Stead Will retire in December 2015.
Successor will be Keith Down.
Senior Independent Director None Appointed Senior Independent Director on 12 September 2014.
Simon Emeny Will chair Remuneration Committee from 11 September 2015.
Marion Sears Non-Executive Director Nominations Chair of Remuneration Committee between 28 June 2014 and 11 September 2014, Remuneration and resumed this position on 8 January 2015 when Matt Davies resigned from the Board.
Will retire as Remuneration Committee Chair on 11 September 2015.
Senior Independent Director prior to retiring this position on 11 September 2014.
Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Liz Doherty Appointed Chair of Audit and Risk Committee on 12 September 2014.
Non-Executive Director None William Reeve Appointed 1 July 2015.
Matt Davies Chair of Audit and Risk Committee between 28 June 2014 and 11 September 2014.
Chair of Remuneration Committee between 12 September 2014 and 8 January 2015.
Resigned from the Board on 8 January 2015 due to a change in his executive position.
None None Nick Wharton Chief Executive between 28 June 2014 and 10 September 2014.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 35 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED Chairman and Chief Executive Board attendance responsibilities The Board held nine meetings in the course of the year, one of which was dedicated to a formal review of strategy.
Attendance The Board has adopted written statements setting out the at meetings was as follows: respective responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive: these are available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
In general terms, the Chairman is Director Meetings attended responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business.
Will Adderley 9 4 John Browett 0 Independence of Non-Executive Directors As required by the Corporate Governance Code and the Geoff Cooper 7 Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, the 2 Matt Davies 4 Board considers annually whether all Non-Executive Directors Liz Doherty 9 continue to exhibit independence of character and judgement prior to putting them forward for reappointment at the AGM.
Simon Emeny 9 This was last considered in September 2015 and we confirmed 1 Andy Harrison 7 that Andy Harrison was independent on appointment and that 4 William Reeve 0 Simon Emeny, Liz Doherty, William Reeve and Peter Ruis are independent.
Marion Sears 9 Marion Sears has served 11 years on the Board nine years David Stead 9 since otation of the Company in October 2006.
Although 3 Nick Wharton 1 the Board considers that Marion continues to exhibit 1.
Andy Harrison was appointed on 1 September 2014.
He attended all independence of character and judgement, we recognise but one meeting following his appointment.
that given her tenure some of our institutional shareholders 2.
Matt Davies attended all meetings that took place prior to his and their representatives may no longer consider her to be resignation on 8 January 2015. independent.
Marion is a highly valued Board member who contributes fully and effectively to the work of the Board and 3.
Nick Wharton attended all but one meeting that took place prior to his resignation on 10 September 2015. its committees.
Our majority shareholder and our largest institutional shareholders support her continued Board 4.
John Browett and William Reeve were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2015.
There were no meetings between that date and the end of membership.
The Board has therefore decided to treat her as the financial year.
non-independent for the purposes of reporting compliance against the UK Corporate Governance Code, and to appoint Any Director who was unable to attend a meeting received the an additional independent Non-Executive Director to achieve papers in advance and passed on comments to the Chairman.
As noted in the report of the Nominations Committee, Board refreshment is a continued area of focus and we continue to consider the tenure of all Directors as we manage succession over the next few years.
Our policy on Board diversity is explained in the Nominations Committee report.
Change of Non-Executive Director responsibilities During the period the following changes in the responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors took place.
The change in September 2014 was to address the concerns of certain investor bodies and proxy agencies who do not regard Marion Sears as independent in view of her tenure.
The second change was as a result of the unforeseen resignation of Matt Davies in January 2015, due to a change in his executive position.
Marion will retire from her position as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 11 September 2015, and will be succeeded by Simon Emeny.
From 8 January Between 12 September 2014 Between 28 June 2014 2015 to date and 8 January 2015 and 11 September 2014 Senior Independent Director Simon Emeny Simon Emeny Marion Sears Audit and Risk Committee Chair Liz Doherty Liz Doherty Matt Davies Remuneration Committee Chair Marion Sears Matt Davies Marion Sears Nominations Committee Chair Marion Sears Marion Sears Marion Sears dunelm.
com Stock code: DNLM 36 GOVERNANCE of the Board effectiveness review process, which includes a Board meetings formal review of the Chairmans performance.
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision or approval, which is available on the Groups Board committees website or from the Company Secretary.
Examples of such The Board has appointed three committees, an Audit and Risk matters include Group strategy and budget, Group capital Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration structure, approval of financial results and report and financial Committee.
The terms of reference of each of these statements, significant capital or contractual commitments, committees can be found on the Groups website and are maintaining internal control and risk management and approval available from the Company Secretary.
Details of the membership of the committees and of their At each meeting, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial activities during the past financial year can be found in the officer report on operational performance including health reports from the Chair of each of the committees on pages and safety and the Chief Financial officer reports on financial 42 to 75. performance.
There is a rolling agenda of other operational, strategic and risk topics which is regularly refreshed to reect Training and induction the most up-to-date strategy and live issues in the business.
Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a The principal topics discussed by the Board in 2014 15 were: comprehensive and tailored induction programme with visits to key sites and meetings with senior managers and Areas of focus other colleagues.
This includes access to recent Board and Committee papers, including strategy documentation: Strategic X Overall business strategy meetings with each of the Executive Directors and X Board independence, the Company Secretary and other members of senior composition and diversity management: store visits.
X Senior management succession As part of the annual Board evaluation, any additional training X Budget or development needs are addressed by the Chairman with each Director.
Please see the Directors biographies on pages X Treasury policy including new capital policy 30 to 32 for details of the specic skills and experience of each Director.
X Return of cash to shareholders X Tax policy Throughout the year all Directors have visited stores Governance and risk X Board succession both informally and together with members of the senior management team.
X Investor communications X Investor feedback via advisors The Company Secretary reports to the Board at each meeting X AGM voting and feedback on new legal, regulatory and governance developments X Risk reviews that affect the Group and actions are agreed where needed.
X Health and safety Directors attend seminars and tutorials provided by X Bribery Act independent organisations which cover the whole range of governance topics.
X Ethical sourcing X IT security and cyber security Evaluation Operational X Competitor activity Each of the Directors receives a formal evaluation of their X Furniture strategy performance during the year.
X Brand awareness The Board and Committees are also formally evaluated as a X Colleague engagement whole.
X Product quality The principal agreed action from the 2014 evaluation was to We measure the time spent on strategy, governance and ensure that the Board succession plan will remain a regular operational performance at each meeting.
Over the year, Board agenda item alongside formal Nominations Committee the majority of our time was spent on strategy, followed by meetings.
This was implemented, with Board succession governance and operational performance, which the Board discussed at the majority of Board meetings.
In 2015 Andy Harrison, as incoming Chairman, conducted Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the a formal review with each of the Directors and of the Board Company Secretary and committee secretary respectively and as a whole.
He concluded that the Board works well, with an circulated for approval.
Any unresolved concerns raised by a effective open and informal style, a high level of trust between Director are recorded in the minutes.
Directors, a good mix of challenge and support, focused on driving business performance over both the short and the long Non-Executive Director meetings term.
The priorities for the coming year are: The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors met twice during the year without Executive Directors being X To ensure that the Board retains and builds on these present and regularly have informal individual meetings with strengths in the coming year during a period of substantial the Executive Directors and other senior managers in the change around the Board table.
business, usually at a store location.
In addition the NonX Continued focus on the Board succession plan.
Executive Directors met without the Chairman present as part Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 37 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED Investor relations and understanding shareholder views We formalised our Investor Relations Strategy in 2013 and it is available on our corporate website.
The main elements are: Event Company attendees Results presentation Presented by Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Twice a year Attended by Chairman and other Directors Meetings with institutional investors roadshow Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Twice a year Chairman and Non-Executive Directors attend a selection of meetings Adderley family dinner Once a year All Directors and Company Secretary AGM Once a year All Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance presentation Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and Usually once a year Will Adderley Analyst and shareholder presentation at store Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Every two or three years Other senior managers as appropriate The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer report back to the Board after the investor roadshows.
The Groups brokers and financial PR advisors also provide a written feedback report after the full and half year results announcements and investor roadshows to inform the Board about investor views, and in addition Non-Executive Directors attend a selection of investor meetings.
Our corporate website contains useful shareholder information, copies of presentations and policies in relation to governance and corporate social responsibility.
All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
Rule 9 waiver Significant shareholders As usual we will be requesting authority to buy back up to The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the Directors 5 million shares 2.5% of our share capital at the AGM.
Our report on page 77 and voting rights are stated on page 76.
Chief Executive, Will Adderley, has a beneficial interest in Conflicts of interest 30.5% of our share capital.
For us to exercise the right to buy The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public back shares we have to ask shareholders to approve a waiver company to authorise conicts and potential conicts of of Rule 9 of the Takeover Code, as otherwise Will would be interest of individual Directors where the Articles of Association required by law to make an offer to buy all of the shares in the contain a provision to that effect.
We understand that a number of shareholders have of Association give the Board this authority subject to the concerns about Rule 9 waivers in general, as they can lead to following safeguards: major shareholders gaining creeping control: as a result they automatically vote against the resolution.
X Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain We would like to reassure shareholders that: from voting.
X Shares bought back by the Company would be held in X Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being treasury and used only to satisfy share option entitlements, considered are able to approve a conict of interest and, and not cancelled.
in taking that decision the Directors must act in a way they X Since 2012, Will Adderley no longer participates in the Long consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Term Incentive Plan and therefore his shareholding will not success of the Company.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when X Since otation of the Company in 2006, the Adderley family giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
has reduced its holding from 67% to 55% currently.
X There has been a Relationship Agreement in place since otation which provides safeguards to other shareholders for details please see the Directors Report on page 76.
We therefore request that shareholders take into account our specic circumstances when making their voting decision in relation to the waiver resolution and we hope that shareholders will support the Boards recommendation.
com Stock code: DNLM 38 GOVERNANCE All Directors are required to disclose any actual or potential At the Annual General Meetings of the Company from 2007 conicts to the Board and the following existing conicts have onwards, the Board has sought and been given authority been considered and approved: to issue shares and to buy back and reissue shares.
Similar resolutions are being tabled at the 2015 Annual General X Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to Meeting, together with a waiver of any obligation of Will other major shareholders.
Authorised on the basis that Adderley under the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers Will continues to abide by the terms of the Relationship to make an offer for all of the shares of the Company if the Agreement entered into between himself, other major authority to buy back shares is used.
Any shares bought shareholders and the Company on otation of the Company back would be held in treasury for reissue to employees who in 2006. exercise options under one of the Groups share incentive schemes.
For further details see the Notice of Annual General Any conicts are considered by the Board and any Meeting which accompanies this report.
authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and reviewed annually by the Board.
Advice and insurance Conicts that have been disclosed are reviewed annually by All Directors have access to the advice and services of the the Board.
In addition Directors may seek legal advice at the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in connection The Board considers that its procedures to approve conicts with their duties.
of interest and potential conicts of interest are operating effectively.
The Group purchases Directors and Ofcers Liability insurance cover for its Directors.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company provide that Articles of association a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the by a special resolution of shareholders.
Board so long as the Director stands down and offers him or Governance and risk herself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director Risk is a whole Board matter for Dunelm, and the Board as a must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by whole takes responsibility for management of risk throughout shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least every the business.
The Board has decided to adopt the requirement of the Corporate Governance Code, that all Directors should Given the size of our Board and the relative lack of complexity stand down and offer themselves for re-election at each Annual in our business we do not have a separate Board Risk General Meeting.
Committee: our Audit and Risk Committee oversees the risk management process as part of its activities.
Directors may be removed by a special resolution of We believe that risk is best managed by a combination of the shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act following: 2006.
The Articles also provide that the ofce of a Director shall X Formal risk management processes as described in this be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being a Director, report.
or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his or her X The Board and senior management leading by example.
ofce be vacated if he or she is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
X Embedding our culture and ethics.
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
Annual Report there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, risks faced by the Group.
This year we have appointed a all Directors will retire from the Board and offer themselves dedicated Group Risk Manager and signicantly refreshed and for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
strengthened the process by which we identify and address Non-Executive Directors will also be subject to a separate business risks.
This process has been reviewed by the Audit vote by shareholders independent of the Adderley family and Risk Committee and the Board and is in accordance with as required by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom the Financial Conduct Authoritys Guidance on Internal Control Listing Authority.
Powers of Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to the requirements of the Companies Act, the Articles of Association of the Company and any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority in accordance with the Code and these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman and the Chief Executive respectively.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 39 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED The diagram below sets out how responsibility for risk management is allocated.
Board Collective responsibility for X Formal consideration of risk appetite managing risk X Formal risk review twice annually X Consideration of what keeps us awake at night X Key risk topics reviewed through regular timetabled presentations or key risk reviews X Monitor KPIs through Board reports X Executive members have line responsibility for managing specic risks Audit and Risk Oversees risk management process X Receives report on risk management process at each meeting.
Committee X Formal risk review twice annually X Allocates resources for external assurance reviews of selected risks.
X Selects topics for key risk reviews by the Board.
Executive Board Members have line responsibility X Formal risk review twice annually for managing specific risk areas X Key risks reviewed individually by the Executive Board once a year.
Risk Forum Its members, Risk Champions X Members responsible for the identication and management of individual Executive Board members or departmental risks that are collated on the risk register their appointees, oversee the X Co-ordination of approach to risks that apply across departments.
identification and management X Share best practice.
of departmental risks on the risk X Compile strategic risk register for escalation to the Executive Board as register appropriate.
X Risk management is a collective Board responsibility.
The X The Executive Board reviews the key risks in terms of Board as a whole sets the risk appetite, in the context of severity individually.
Usually two risks and their mitigating which major decisions are taken, including our approach to actions are reviewed at each meeting.
In addition the risk management.
Executive Board formally reviews the full strategic risk register twice a year.
The key risks identied through the formal process described below, together with the risk register as X The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing a whole, are reviewed by the Board twice a year.
In the risk management framework described above.
The key addition, once a year the Board considers what keeps risks are reviewed by the Committee formally twice a year.
Risk topics selected by the Audit and Risk Committee are considered in-depth at Board meetings.
Important risk topics are covered in-depth either by regular timetabled presentations e. g. health and safety, ethical trading, by key risk discussions e. g. management succession, product quality, or regularly as a standard agenda item e. g. competitor activity.
Executive Directors have line responsibility for managing specic risks and delegate these to members of the Executive Board as appropriate.
X Each member of the Executive Board is responsible for managing risks in his or her department.
He or she appoints a Risk Champion, who is responsible for identifying risks within the department, ensuring that departmental risks are identied and documented on the risk register, and mitigation is in place, with a named individual responsible for management of the risk.
The register of risks is maintained by Risk Champions and discussed by them at the Risk Forum.
Risks are assessed in terms of impact and likelihood and the highest priority risks are identied for specic focus.
The Risk Forum also discusses the management of risks that impact across departments and ensures that the approach across the Group is consistent.
Where relevant, new or heightened risks are escalated to the Executive Board.
com Stock code: DNLM 40 GOVERNANCE Internal control and internal audit The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The diagram below summarises the Groups system.
Audit and Risk Executive Internal Audit Operational Audit Board Committee Board Programme Team Collective responsibility Oversees effectiveness X Responsible for X Reviews specic X Reviews compliance for internal control of internal control operating within the matters selected by with certain internal control framework the Audit and Risk procedures in stores X Formal list of matters X Receives reports from Committee and at other locations X Reviews and reserved for decision by external auditors monitors compliance the Board X Approves external with policies and X Control framework assurance programme procedures setting out X Receives reports X Recommends changes responsibilities generated through to controls policies X Approval of key policies the external assurance where needed and procedures programme X Monitors performance X Monitors performance The system of internal control comprises: It should be noted that internal control systems such as this are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to X A list of matters specically reserved for Board approval, for achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, example significant capital expenditure.
and not absolute, assurance against material loss or accounting X A well-established control framework comprising clear misstatement.
structures and accountabilities for colleagues, well The Board confirms that where any significant failures or understood policies and procedures and budgeting and weaknesses have been identied from the risk management review processes.
This framework has been documented review or the internal control procedures, actions have been during the year and reviewed by the Audit and Risk taken to remedy these.
X Each Head of Department and store manager has clear Bribery Act 2010 responsibilities and operates within dened policies and Following the coming into force of the Bribery Act in July 2011, procedures covering such areas as financial targets, human we have reviewed the procedures in place to ensure that we resources management, customer service, health and safety.
are able to comply with its requirements.
Actions taken include: X The Executive Directors and Executive Board monitor X Anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy implemented.
compliance with these policies and procedures in the course X The policy on acceptance of gifts and other privileges of regular reviews.
has been updated and a formal procedure has been X In addition there is a rolling programme of review of store implemented for signing off and logging hospitality.
compliance by an operational audit team.
X Executive Board members and Heads of Department The Audit and Risk Committee has oversight of the system of have received training and also signed a declaration of internal controls and of the external assurance programme see compliance, which is an annual process.
below and receives the report of the external auditor following X All members of the Buying, Merchandising and Product the annual statutory audit.
Technology departments are required to attend a Bribery The Audit and Risk Committee considers that a permanent Act training session when they commence employment.
internal audit function is not required in view of the adequacy X There is compulsory annual refresher training for the above of internal and risk management controls and reporting in individuals.
place including the use of third party experts to provide X Standard terms and conditions for suppliers include a assurance on selected topics, the relatively low level of Bribery Act clause.
complexity in the business and the close involvement of the X Specic training has been carried out for suppliers and Executive Directors in the operation of the business.
agents in high risk territories.
The programme of external assurance activities carried out in X The Whistleblowing Policy refers specically to the Bribery 2014 15 comprised: Act.
X Compliance with HMRC real time reporting requirements This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on X VAT compliance 10 September 2015.
X Procedures to ensure product quality Andy Harrison Chairman 10 September 2015 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 41
