Nominations Committee Report 2014 15 SUMMARY Principal Activities X Geoff Cooper retired as Chairman after 11years X Andy Harrison appointed to succeed Geoff Cooper as Chairman X Will Adderley reappointed as Chief Executive in September 2014 to lead the Group in its new phase of growth, following the resignation of Nick Wharton X John Browett appointed Chief Executive Designate, to succeed Will Adderley as Chief Executive officer in January 2016 X CFO search resulted in appointment of Keith Down to succeed David Stead on his retirement in December 2015 X Matt Davies resigned X William Reeve appointed as a Non-Executive Director X Board evaluation by the incoming Chairman of the Board Since the year end: X Peter Ruis appointed as a Non-Executive Director This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Principal duties The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when new appointments to the Board are made.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
While all Board appointment processes and succession discussions are led by the Nominations Committee, these are viewed as important whole-Board topics and no appointment has been or will be made to the Board without agreement of all Directors.
Committee Membership The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Marion Sears Chair 18 January 2005 To date 1 Geoff Cooper 18 January 2005 7 July 2015 Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Will Adderley 17 February 2011 To date Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 To date 2 William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date 3 Matt Davies 8 February 2011 8 January 2015 1.
Geoff Cooper resigned from the Committee on 7 July 2015, upon his retirement from the Board.
William Reeve was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 1 July 2015.
Matt Davies was a member of the Committee until 8 January 2015, when he resigned from the Board and the Committee due to a change in his executive role.
com Stock code: DNLM 72 GOVERNANCE The search process for Non-Executive Directors, and Summary of Board changes in 2014-15 succession planning as part of this, was discussed by the whole X September 2014: Will Adderley succeeded Nick Wharton Board at every Board meeting with an update paper provided as Chief Executive, to lead the Group into its new phase by myself.
In addition there were six formal Committee of growth, following a search process commenced by the meetings held in the year and members attendance was Committee earlier in the year.
as shown in the table below.
I also act as Secretary to the X January 2015: David Stead announced his intention to retire Committee.
X January 2015: Matt Davies resigned from the Board, Meetings Member attended: following his appointment to an executive role with Tesco plc.
Marion Sears Chair 6 X April 2015: Geoff Cooper announced his intention to retire 1 Geoff Cooper 5 in July 2015, to be succeeded by Andy Harrison.
Simon Emeny 6 X July 2015: John Browett joined as Chief Executive Will Adderley 6 Designate, and will succeed Will Adderley as Chief Executive from January 2016: Will Adderley to become Liz Doherty 6 Deputy Chairman from that date.
1 Andy Harrison 5 X July 2015: William Reeve joined the Board as a Non- 2 William Reeve 0 Executive Director.
3 Matt Davies 2 X July 2015: Announced that Keith Down is to succeed David Stead as Chief Financial officer in December 2015.
No Director attended a meeting during which his or her own position was discussed.
Hence Geoff Cooper and Andy Harrison were absent Further information is given below in relation to these changes.
from the meeting held in respect of the Chairman succession.
William Reeve was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 1 July Chairman Succession 2015.
There were no committee meetings between that date and the year end.
Geoff Cooper served 11 years as Dunelms Chairman, and 3.
Matt Davies attended all meetings during his tenure.
successfully led the Group through its otation, and the fivefold growth in market value of the business that has followed.
Committee Activities in 2014 15 As nine years service is a milestone for many corporate Board Succession Planning governance analysts, Geoff indicated his wish to retire from the Board once a successor had been identied.
As Dunelm enters For a number of years we have had a formal, long range plan a new phase of growth, the Committee was clear that it should for how Board membership should develop over the coming appoint an individual of a calibre, experience and strategic years.
In the last financial year we have announced a number perspective at least equal to that of Geoff.
of changes to the Dunelm Board, most of which have been the culmination of careful planning and these are described below.
When Andy Harrison joined the Board last year, we were pleased to have found a person who clearly ts our On at least an annual basis each Directors intentions are requirements for a Non-Executive Director as follows: discussed with regard to serving on the Board and their succession is considered in the context of the shape of the X Relevant experience in retail or similar business, including overall Board and the corporate governance guidance on multi-channel.
This transparency amongst a X Strategic vision small and collegiate Board allows for an open discussion about X Familiarity with the current challenges of operating succession for each individual, both for short-term emergency management, including multisite and international.
purposes as well as longer-term plans.
X Understanding of branding and marketing.
As in previous years, we conducted an analysis of the balance X Cultural t. of skills on the Board as a whole, taking account of the future needs of the business in the light of the refreshed growth Andy has provided thoughtful challenge and insight to Board strategy, the Board changes set out above, and the knowledge, and Committee discussions during the year.
Following his experience, length of service and performance of the Directors.
decision to relinquish his executive role at Whitbread plc, In accordance with our policy, we also had regard to the thus reducing his other commitments, the Committee was requirement to achieve a diversity of characters, backgrounds unanimous in its decision to recommend that Andy be asked to and experiences amongst Board members.
As a result of these Chair the Board from 8 July 2015. changes, we revised our succession plan and the programme of activities in place to deliver it.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 73 Nominations Committee report CONTINUED Matt Davies resigned in January when it was announced that Chief Executive and Chief Executive Designate he would be assuming an executive role at Tesco plc.
Will Adderley succeeded Nick Wharton as Chief Executive in September 2014.
The background to this change and the Following our review of skills and balance in February, we process followed were described in last years report and agreed that it would be desirable to appoint two additional financial statements.
Non-Executive Directors, in order to replace the skills brought to us by Matt, and to bring us new perspectives.
It was the Boards intention that Will Adderleys appointment would be a permanent one: however, in early 2015 John We were delighted to nd William Reeve, who joined us on Browett became available.
As part of our succession planning 1 July 2015.
William is a serial entrepreneur and investor with work John was identied as a leading CEO candidate some deep experience growing successful e-commerce businesses, time ago, in view of his strong combination of business such as LOVEFiLM.
com which he co-founded, Graze.
com, leadership, outstanding retail skills across a breadth of sectors, Paddy Power PLC, Secret Escapes, Zoopla and Hubbub.
and proven experience of applying technology in multi-channel Williams approach and experience will complement the other operations.
We agreed that John should be appointed as skills of our Board members.
All Board members met with Chief Executive Designate in July 2015.
Following an induction William and we were unanimous in our decision to appoint him period he will succeed Will Adderley as Chief Executive on 1 as NED.
January 2016, and Will will again assume the role of Deputy In addition to our networking described above we conducted Chairman, which he held between 2011 and 2014. a formal search to identify a current retail Chief Executive to As we were not actively seeking a new Chief Executive, we replace Matt.
As a result of that search we have been able to did not engage in a full search process.
However John was appoint as NED Peter Ruis, the Chief Executive of Jigsaw.
In originally identied as a potential candidate through our this search we used Zygos to review the retail market and a relationship with an executive search rm Augmentum.
shortlist of three candidates one of whom was female was interviewed.
The Board unanimously selected Peter for his Chief Financial Officer retailing experience, his knowledge of the homewares sector In January 2015, David Stead advised the Board that he and his understanding of the fashion sector and the behaviour intended to retire later in 2015, once a successor had been of this customer segment.
We believe that Peter will bring a identied.
David has been the Chief Financial officer of valuable extra perspective to our strategic debate, and will t Dunelm since September 2003, and has led the Finance well with the Dunelm culture and values.
team and until recently the IT and HR functions through the otation of the Group and its subsequent growth.
Skills Balance and Directors Performance Evaluation We drew up a role and person specication, and engaged CT The Nominations Committee reviews Board composition and Partners to conduct a full market search.
We also made the the balance of skills provided by the Directors in a whole Board fact of Davids proposed retirement public in order to attract session each year, in the light of the most recent strategy the widest potential pool of candidates.
The last review was in February 2015. interviews, led by myself, Will Adderley and Liz Doherty as Audit and Risk committee chair, we shortlisted two individuals Following the Chairman transition which took place at the one male and one female, both of whom met all Board end of the financial year, individual performance reviews of members and John Browett, our incoming Chief Executive.
Directors will take place during the financial year.
I will also lead It was unanimously decided that Keith Down was the most a review of the Chairmans performance during 2016. suitable candidate for the role, and we are delighted that he has agreed to join Dunelm in December 2015.
NED Search Throughout the year Committee members have continued to network with contacts and meet with a large number of potential candidates on an informal basis.
To follow best practice we also advertised the role of NED on the specialist recruitment website, NuRole, in order to access applicants whom we did not know but who are searching for a new role.
These activities enabled us to create a pool of suitably qualied, interesting and available candidates from which to select new Non-Executive Directors.
com Stock code: DNLM 74 GOVERNANCE Diversity Tenure and Re-Election Of Directors In 2011 we set out the Boards policy on diversity which we In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all believe remains appropriate for Dunelm.
It can be summarised Directors will seek re-election at the 2015 AGM, and as now as follows: required by the Listing Rules the Non-Executives will be subject to an additional vote by shareholders independent of the X Whilst conrming that our overriding concern is to ensure Adderley family.
the Board comprises outstanding individuals who can lead the Group, we also believe the Groups best interests I have been a Board member since 2004, and so have served are served by ensuring that these individuals represent a 11 years on the Board, nine of these following the Companys range of skills, experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, otation in 2006.
In accordance with best practice, from 2013 including gender.
my contract is renewed annually for a one year term, subject to earlier termination by notice and reappointment at the AGM.
X Accordingly, it is our policy that the Board should always be Simon Emeny is midway through a third term as Non-Executive of mixed gender.
Director which takes his tenure to 2016, and Liz Doherty and X Quotas are not appropriate as a target for female Andy Harrison and William Reeve all remain within their first representation on company boards, since they are likely term.
to lead to compromised decisions on Board membership, quality and size.
As stated above, there have been a number of changes to our Board in the last 12 months.
As usual, we aim to balance X We will seek to ensure that specic effort is made to bring continuity with regular refreshment of skill and experience.
forward female candidates for Board appointments.
X We will monitor the Groups approach to people This report was reviewed and signed on behalf of the Board on development to ensure that it continues to enable 10 September 2015. talented individuals, both male and female, to enjoy career progression within Dunelm.
Marion Sears Chair of the Nominations Committee Details of the gender balance within the Group are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 13.
The 10 September 2015 Committee is pleased that there is a good level of gender diversity at Board and senior management level 25% and 32% respectively.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 75
