GOVERNANCE Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Marion Sears Chair of the Remuneration Committee In updating our Policy we have had to The timing of our new Executive Dear Shareholder, increase the quantum of bonus and appointments means that we are As described elsewhere in this annual LTIP awards to remain competitive and returning to shareholders for a second report we recently appointed two new to secure the individuals we want but year running for a binding vote to executives and, as a result, for the first we are content that this goes hand in approve this new Policy.
Our majority time since IPO in 2006, we have needed hand with the executives holding more shareholder supports this Policy and we to update the performance-related shares, and for longer.
Importantly hope you will support it too.
This however, we have maintained the overall has led to our new policy which will be The appointment of a new Chairman remuneration shape relative to market presented at the AGM for shareholder and two new NEDs also prompted a levels of: approval in a binding vote.
In developing review of non-executive fees.
We found our new policy we have consulted with X basic salary at median level or below our fee level was below the FTSE250 major institutional shareholders and we range and accordingly Chairman and X annual bonus at median level: and are pleased that feedback has been Non-Executive fees have been rebased X LTIP at upper quartile level.
This emphasises the long-term view We continue to follow the same As you may remember, I retired from held by the Board and relates directly principles of seeking alignment, the Remuneration chair a year ago but to our strategy.
The main change in our rewarding long-term shareholder value due to the departure of Matt Davies updated Policy is to express the LTIP creation and structuring pay so that the I took on the role again temporarily opportunity as a xed number of shares majority is performance-based according during this busy period.
I am delighted rather than as a percentage of salary.
However we have now to hand over to Simon Emeny as This makes executive remuneration gone a step further with alignment and the new Remuneration Committee chair particularly sensitive to the share the Executive Directors will invest and I know he will continue to have the price performance.
We hope you will two-thirds of all performance pay i. e. interests of all stakeholders at heart.
appreciate that this ensures that the 2 3 of both any awarded bonus and LTIP executives share fully in any share price Yours sincerely, vesting, after tax in Dunelm shares for movement, in either direction.
Crucially, the lifetime of their employment with we have maintained the stretching the Group.
We call this the Lifetime Marion Sears performance conditions and, as before, Lock-in and it replaces the previous Chair of the Remuneration Committee the executive team has to deliver two-year deferral requirement under our 10 September 2015 compound annual growth in earnings LTIP with a much stronger arrangement.
per share of RPI 15% in order to secure In addition, both John Browett who the maximum LTIP vesting.
becomes CEO on 1 January 2016 and Keith Down who becomes CFO on Will Adderley, who already has a large 7 December 2015 have agreed to make beneficial shareholding, has requested to a personal investment in Dunelm shares reduce his annual salary to 1 with effect upon joining subject to company close from 1 July 2015 and we are pleased to periods.
We believe this sends a really acknowledge this significant gesture.
Will strong message about commitment, has already waived his right to receive and alignment of management with all awards under share based schemes.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 47
