Corporate governance report Board committees SAFETY COMMITTEE Board committees The Committee reports that follow set out, amongst other things, the responsibilities and activities of the Committees in the past financial year.
The terms of reference of each Committee are documented and agreed by the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
com The Chair of each Board Committee formally reports back to the Board.
Details of Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings is set out on page 60.
PROFESSOR RIGAS DOGANIS, Safety Committee See pages CHAIR OF THE SAFETY COMMITTEE Chair: Professor Rigas Doganis 52 to 53 The Safety Committee is now in its third year and continues to make a difference to the effective safety oversight of Remuneration Committee See pages the Board.
Chair: Charles Gurassa 53 and 64 to 80 Audit Committee See pages Chair: Adle Anderson 54 to 57 Membership as at 30 September 2015 two independent Non-Executive Directors, one independent Nominations Committee See page chairman Chair: John Barton 58 Members of the committee Professor Rigas Doganis Chair Finance Committee See page Keith Hamill Chair: Adle Anderson 59 Dr Andreas Bierwirth IT Governance and Oversight Committee See page Chair: John Browett 59 Turn to page 60 for meeting attendance table Key responsibilities To monitor and follow up on safety incidents reported to the Board to ensure that they have been satisfactorily closed either by the Company and or the relevant external parties.
To receive, examine and monitor reports on actions taken by departments.
To review and monitor the implementation of the Companys annual safety plan.
The Committee also examines specific safety issues as requested by the Board or any member of the committee.
Where appropriate, the Committee reviews relevant reports published by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch, major incidents that have affected other operators, such as the incidents suffered by Air Asia and Germanwings in the last year, as well as other external reports on matters relevant to safety and security.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 52 Strategic report Governance Accounts REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Independent safety reports from the Director of Safety and Security are presented at every Board meeting.
The Committee ensures that both internal and relevant external events are fully investigated and that appropriate actions have been taken where necessary.
The Director of Safety and Security has a direct reporting line to the Chairman which reinforces the independence of safety oversight.
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee has reported to the Board with his own assessment of safety management within the airline.
Further information on the Safety Management System is provided on page 31.
CHARLES GURASSA, CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Highlights of the 2015 financial year A range of safety-related matters have been reviewed by the The Remuneration Committees focus was firstly on putting Committee during the 2015 financial year involving all areas forward a revised Long Term Incentive Plan in its remuneration flight operations, cabin crew, ground services and engineering.
policy for shareholder approval at the 2015 Annual General Some of these reviews followed requests from the Board to Meeting.
The remuneration policy has been designed to be carry out detailed assessment of specific operational incidents: straightforward and transparent, in alignment with the others were reports of safety actions taken by easyJet Companys principle of having a simple and cost-effective operational departments.
These included a review of the approach.
The second area of focus was recommending a processes, identification and use of pattern recognition for package for the incoming Chief Financial Officer which aligned safety purposes, and also a review of the cyber security threats with our policy.
to easyJets operations and the mitigations in place to counter such threats.
Changes to the Committee Although Professor Rigas Doganis stepped down from the Membership as at 30 September 2015 Board of easyJet as a Non-Executive Director on 1 December all members are independent Non-Executive Directors 2014, he remains as Chairman of the Safety Committee until 29 February 2016.
Members of the committee Charles Gurassa Chair As reported in last years annual report, in October 2014 the Committees former Independent Safety Expert, Geoff Want, John Browett joined easyJet as the Director of Safety and Security.
With Franois Rubichon considerable and wide-spread previous experience in aviation safety, he has made an invaluable contribution in ensuring Turn to page 60 for meeting attendance table that the Company maintains the highest safety standards and procedures.
Key responsibilities The safety team has been further strengthened by the To assess and make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of a specialist in human factors.
policies for remuneration for each of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, as well as the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Highlights of the 2015 financial year The Committee reviewed and put forward a revised Long Term Incentive Plan which was approved at the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting as part of the remuneration policy.
The Committee reviewed and put forward proposals for the package for the new Chief Financial Officer.
The detailed Directors remuneration report is on pages 64 to 80.
Additional disclosures under the UK Corporate Governance Code Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS an AON Company has been appointed by the Committee as easyJets remuneration consultants.
HNBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its code of conduct.
HNBS has no other connection with the Company.
However, a sister company in the AON Group provides pension and flexible benefits administration services to the Company.
com 53 Corporate governance report continued AUDIT COMMITTEE Membership as at 30 September 2015 all independent Non-Executive Directors Members of the committee Adle Anderson Chair Keith Hamill Andy Martin The Committee members have been selected to provide the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties and responsibilities.
Adle Anderson was a partner in KPMG until July 2011 and held roles ADLE ANDERSON, including Chief Financial Officer of KPMG UK, Chief Executive CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Officer of KPMGs captive insurer and Chief Financial Officer of KPMG Europe.
She currently chairs the audit committees During the year, the Audit Committee has continued to of Intu Properties Plc and Save the Children International.
devote significant time to reviewing the Groups system Keith Hamill has had considerable experience as a director of risk management, internal controls, the integrity of the of listed companies and was Finance Director of WH Smith, Groups financial reporting and the effectiveness of both Forte plc and United Distillers.
Andy Martin was Group internal and external audit.
In addition, the Committee has Finance Director of Compass Group plc between 2004 and led a competitive tender for external audit services which 2012, and prior to this held other senior financial positions followed best practice guidance, resulting in the with First Choice Holidays plc now TUI Group, Forte plc recommendation to reappoint  LLP and Granada Group plc.
The Board considers the Committee as the Group auditors.
members financial experience to be recent and relevant for the purposes of the Code.
The Committee welcomes the changes to the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, and the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, published in September 2014.
These changes apply to the Group for the first time this Turn to page 60 for meeting attendance table year and have been areas of focus for the committee.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 54 Strategic report Governance Accounts Main activities and responsibilities of the Committee: Please refer to the Audit Committee terms of reference for further details on the Committees duties and responsibilities, available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website, http: corporate.
Responsibilities How the Committee has discharged its responsibilities To monitor and review: Review of the financial statements and announcements relating to the financial performance and governance of the Group at year end and half year.
the integrity of the financial statements and related formal announcements, and the significant financial The Committee also considered the material areas in which significant reporting issues and judgements which they contain judgements have been applied based on reports from both the Groups management and the external auditors.
Further information is provided in the Financial reporting and significant financial issues section.
the Companys risk management systems and Review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups ongoing risk internal control management systems and control processes, through an evaluation of: the risk and assurance plans: Internal Audit reports: risk assessments: information security and business continuity: control themes: and internal financial control assessments.
the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit The Committee undertook an assessment of the effectiveness and function and its activities independence of the Internal Audit function, which included consideration of: key Internal Audit reports: stakeholder feedback on the quality of Internal Audit activity: Internal Audits compliance with prevailing professional standards: and closure of Internal Audit recommendations.
Further information is provided in the Internal Audit section.
the Companys relationship with the external auditors, The Committee considered the appointment of the external auditors, including: confirming and assessing their independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
their independence and objectivity: More information on: the effectiveness of the external audit process: how the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit process were assessed, is provided in the External auditors and recommending the appointment, reappointment effectiveness of external audit process section: and or removal of the external auditors: the external auditors non-audit services, and audit tendering, is provided approving their remuneration and terms of in the Non-audit services and the Audit tendering sections respectively.
engagement: and the policy on the supply of non-audit services.
the adequacy and security of the Groups During the year, the Committee reviewed: arrangements for its employees and contractors to whistleblower reports: raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters reports on anti-bribery and corruption procedures: reports on procedures on fraud and loss prevention: and the Groups systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and detection of fraud, including receiving reports on credit card fraud monitoring and investigations.
reports on non-compliance Other duties of the Audit Committee include: The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and concluded that they did not require updating.
annually reviewing their terms of reference: assessing potential conflicts of interest of Directors There were no potential conflicts to be considered during the year.
on behalf of the Board: and Further information on the Committees role on providing advice on whether as requested by the Board, providing advice on the annual report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable is whether the annual report and accounts are fair, provided in the Financial reporting and significant financial issues section.
com 55 Corporate governance report continued Specific items which the Committee looked at during the financial The Committee reviewed the level and calculations of key year as part of and in addition to its main activities included: accruals and provisions which are judgemental in nature.
Specifically the area of customer claims in respect of flight the treasury function and accounting treatment of delays, cancellations and Air Passenger Duty.
hedging transactions: The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by the accounting treatment for property, plant and equipment: management are reasonable, and that appropriate disclosures the accounting treatment of share-based payments: have been included in the accounts.
the management of change initiatives in the business: At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered whether the Annual report and accounts was fair, balanced information security capabilities, policies and procedures, and understandable and whether it provided the necessary including mitigations around cyber attacks and incidents: and information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and the preparation for making a viability statement.
performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual report and accounts Financial reporting and significant financial judgements is fair, balanced and understandable.
In reaching this conclusion, The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies the Committee considered the overall review and confirmation have been adopted and whether management has made process around the Annual report and accounts, including: appropriate estimates and judgements.
For example, during the financial year, the Committee reviews the level of provisions and the input of subject matter experts, the Executive accruals recorded which are judgemental in nature.
The Management Team and other senior management and, Committee reviews accounting papers prepared by management where applicable, the Board and its Committees: which provide details on significant financial reporting judgements.
the processes and controls which underpin the overall review The Committee also reviews reports by the external auditors on and confirmation process, including the verification process the full year and half year results which highlight any issues with being carried out by an internal financial controls specialist respect to the work undertaken on the audit.
independent of the Finance function : The Committee reviews financial issues through discussion with Internal Audit providing assurance over the audit trail for management and the external auditors and comparison to other material data points relating to the non-financial statement organisations.
The number of such issues currently considered as aspects of the Annual report and accounts, and external significant are, however, limited given easyJets relatively simple audit providing assurance over the accounts: and business model and group structure which are unencumbered the Committee itself, as part of a continuous improvement with legacy issues.
The significant issues considered in relation process, emphasising to contributors the importance of to the accounts are detailed below: providing a balanced view, especially in relation to the more The Committee reviewed the maintenance provision at the subjective areas.
A number of judgements are used in the calculation The Committee was provided with, and commented on, a draft of the provision, primarily pricing, utilisation of aircraft and copy of the Annual report and accounts.
The Committee addressed these matters using reports received from management In carrying out the above processes, key considerations included which underpin the basis of assumptions used.
The Committee ensuring that there was consistency between the accounts and also discussed with the external auditors their review of the the narrative provided in the front half of the annual report, and assumptions underlying the estimates used.
there was an appropriate balance between the reporting of weaknesses, difficulties and challenges, as well as successes, The Committee considered whether the carrying value of goodwill and landing rights held by easyJet should be in an open and honest manner.
The judgement in relation to impairment largely Risk management and internal control relates to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the The Board, as a whole, including the Audit Committee members, value in use of the business being tested for impairment: consider the nature and extent of easyJets risk management primarily whether the strategic plan is achievable and the framework and the risk profile that is acceptable in order overall macroeconomic assumptions which underlie the to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
The Committee addressed these matters Committee has reviewed the work done by management, using reports received from management outlining the basis the Committee itself and the Board on the assessment of the for assumptions used.
The strategic plan used in the Companys principal risks, including their impact on the prospects calculation was presented to the Board.
As a result, it is considered that the Board The Committee considered the key treasury transactions, and has fulfilled its obligations under the Code in relation to risk the application of hedge accounting.
easyJet hedges forward, management and internal controls.
Further details on the on a rolling basis, between 65% and 85% of the next 12 Companys principal risks and uncertainties and their impact months anticipated fuel and currency requirements and on the prospects of the Company are set out on page 24-29. between 45% and 65% of the next 12 months anticipated easyJets system of internal controls, along with its design requirements.
Significant exposure relating to the acquisition and operating effectiveness is subject to review by the Audit cost of aircraft is also managed through the use of foreign Committee, through reports received from management, along currency forward exchange contracts where 90% of the next with those from both internal and external auditors.
Any controls two years forecast requirement is hedged.
easyJet does not deficiencies identified are followed up with action plans tracked operate any other significant derivative financial instruments.
Further details of risk management and However, this area remains significant due to the quantity of internal control are set out on page 63. fuel and exchange rate hedges.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 56 Strategic report Governance Accounts Audit tendering both firms had significant experience in auditing FTSE 100 organisations and or organisations of comparable size  LLP were first appointed to audit the Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 and complexity to easyJet: and September 2006, and have therefore served a ten year term.
neither easyJet nor the firm were aware of any apparent Under EU audit reform legislation, companies are required to conflicts of interest or independence issues.
have a mandatory rotation of auditors after ten years, or Once the Request For Proposal had been issued to both 20 years if there is a compulsory retender at ten years.
firms, each was invited to put forward potential lead audit During the early summer of 2015, the Committee led a tender partners at a meeting with the Audit Committee Chair.
process for external audit services for the year ending 30 Following feedback by the Company on the preferred lead September 2016. audit partners, each firm was invited to attend working Management met with the top 10 UK audit firms by fee income, with easyJet meetings to ensure they fully understood our which were then assessed by a common set of criteria.
external audit requirements and to give an opportunity to Following this assessment, a number of firms were ruled out assess the cultural fit.
The lead audit partner and senior team due to irresolvable conflicts of interests independence issues or members from each firm also met with the incoming CFO, a lack of demonstrable appetite to become the external auditor Andrew Findlay.
to a company of our size and scale.
As part of this process a Each firm submitted a formal audit proposal document which number of firms met with the Audit Committee Chair and the was reviewed by management and the Audit Committee.
On outgoing Chief Financial Officer.
6 July each firm presented at meetings with easyJet Our largest investors were invited to discuss our approach management.
At this meeting each firm was given a technical to the audit tender and three of these investors took up question which they had to consider and include in their final the invitation and contributed to our considerations.
presentation to the Audit Committee on 20 July.
As part of this process, the Audit committee met with each firm without In May the Audit Committee reviewed the investor feedback management present.
and the feedback from the meetings with the firms.
It was concluded that two firms should be invited to tender on The Audit Committee met on 22 July and concluded that the basis that: both firms were capable of providing the services required by the Company and could be put forward to the Board.
both firms had extensive experience in delivering quality The Audit Committee agreed to recommend that the Board audit services: reappoint  LLP as, on balance, both firms demonstrated having the high calibre resources they performed better against the committees pre-agreed needed to deliver quality audit services: selection and assessment criteria.
each firm demonstrated a willingness to participate in the audit tender and to deliver the audit services: Internal Audit The Audit Committee also assesses the effectiveness, The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the work of independence and objectivity of the external auditors by, the Internal Audit function.
It reviews and approves the scope of amongst other things: the Internal Audit annual plan and assesses the quality of Internal considering all key external auditor plans and reports: Audit reports, along with managements actions relating to having regular engagement with the external auditor during findings and the closure of recommended actions.
The Audit Committee meetings and ad hoc meetings when required, Committee also considers stakeholder feedback on the quality including meetings without any member of management of Internal Audits work.
Further information on the Internal Audit being present: function is provided on page 63.
In order to safeguard the independence of the Internal Audit functions, the Head of the Committee Chair having discussions with the Senior Internal Audit is given the opportunity to meet privately with Statutory Auditor ahead of each Committee meeting: and the Audit Committee without any other members of following the end of the financial year, each Committee management present.
member completing an auditor effectiveness review External auditors and effectiveness of external audit process questionnaire.
 LLP were reappointed auditors of Non-audit services the Company at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Senior In the 2015 financial year, easyJet did not incur any costs with management monitors the auditors performance, behaviour and  LLP in respect of non-audit services effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, which informs 2014: nil.
In order to preserve objectivity and independence, the Audit Committees decision to recommend reappointment the external auditors are not asked to provide consulting services on an annual basis.
unless this is in the best interests of the Company, in accordance with easyJets non-audit services policy which is available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website, http: corporate.
com 57 Corporate governance report continued NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Board appointments process The Committee adopts a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Boards practice is to use external recruitment consultants for appointing Directors and as such, terms were negotiated with JCA Group Limited JCA to act as easyJets search consultants for the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer.
Other than providing search consultancy services, JCA has no connection with the Company.
JCA was provided with a brief of the desired candidate profile based on merit and against objective criteria, and their services were used to conduct a search to identify suitable candidates.
A list of potential candidates was assessed JOHN BARTON, against these criteria and a number were interviewed by CHAIR OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE members of the Board and Executive Management Team.
Andrew Findlay was appointed as Chief Financial Officer, During the year the Committee undertook a search for a new effective 2 October 2015.
Chief Financial Officer, reviewing the make-up of the Board While the Boards practice is to use external search consultants Committees given the new Board make up at the beginning for appointing Directors, there are occasions where an individual of the year, ensuring that the newly appointed NEDs were with particular relevant qualifications is identified as a potential embedded in the Board and continuing to review succession candidate to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
This plans within the Board and the Executive Management Team.
was the case with Chris Browne and therefore no external search consultancy or open advertising was used.
Once the committee became aware of her availability, it reviewed her experience and skills and she was interviewed by members of the Board.
She Membership as at 30 September 2015 was appointed to become a Non-Executive Director with effect members are independent Non-Executive Directors from 1 January 2016. and the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board Diversity Members of the committee The Board recognises the benefits of having diversity across John Barton appointed Chair effective from 1 December 2014 all areas of the Group and believes that this supports easyJets continued success and advantage.
When considering the Charles Gurassa optimum make-up of the Board, the benefits of diversity of the Franois Rubichon Board are appropriately reviewed and balanced where possible, including in terms of differences in skills, industry experience, Turn to page 60 for meeting attendance table business model experiences, gender, race, disability, age, nationality, background and other contributions that individuals may make.
The Committee continues to encourage diversity of Key responsibilities business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with Keeping under review the composition, structure and size of, varying skill sets, capabilities and experience gained from and succession to, the Board and its Committees.
different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhance the Board.
In identifying suitable candidates the Committee will seek Succession planning for senior executives and the Board.
candidates from a range of backgrounds, with the final decision Identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, being based on merit against objective criteria.
candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The Company has two female Directors, one being the Chief Evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience Executive.
Following the appointment of Chris Browne, the Board and diversity on the Board.
will have 30% female representation from 1 January 2016.
The Companys policy on diversity applies across all levels of the Highlights of the 2015 financial year organisation, and further details can be found in the Corporate Overseeing the selection process and appointment of the responsibility section on pages 35 to 36. new Chief Financial Officer and a new Non-Executive Director.
Consideration of the appointments to the Board Committees following the change in Board composition.
Reviewing managements succession plans for senior executive positions.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 58 Strategic report Governance Accounts FINANCE COMMITTEE IT GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE ADLE ANDERSON, JOHN BROWETT, CHAIR OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE CHAIR OF THE IT GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE The Finance Committee continues to provide effective The IT Governance and Oversight Committee provides oversight of the Groups treasury and funding policies and governance oversight, and gives independent validation activities, ensuring that activities undertaken will not subject and challenge, to one of the Companys key business areas.
the Group to undesired levels of risk, and that treasury activities are appropriately aligned with Group strategy and support the Group financial performance.
Membership as at 30 September 2015 Membership as at 30 September 2015 all members are independent Non-Executive Directors all members are independent Non-Executive Directors John Browett Chair Adle Anderson Chair Adle Anderson Andy Martin Keith Hamill Charles Gurassa appointed to the Committee effective from 13 November 2014 Turn to page 60 for meeting attendance table Turn to page 60 for meeting attendance table Keith Hamill stepped down from the Committee effective from Key responsibilities 13 November 2014.
To provide independent oversight over the governance and controls relating to the IT business area, in particular covering Key responsibilities the required resilience and change.
Specifically the Committee: To review and monitor the Groups treasury policies and treasury and funding activities, and the related risks.
monitors the strategic direction of the IT programme to ensure it supports easyJets long-term goals within the ambit of its Highlights of the 2015 financial year strategic framework: The Committee undertook: reviews the risks and controls associated with IT strategy to ensure a review of debt funding alternatives: appropriate mitigation is built into the implementation process: a review of foreign exchange and interest rate hedging monitors implementation of the IT strategy and ensures that strategies: and changing business needs are being met in the context of the Companys strategic goals and competitive position: and a review of the unearned revenue and cash position.
provides financial oversight over the IT programmes as the Committee considers necessary, including ensuring an appropriate framework within which budgetary decisions are made.
Highlights of the 2015 financial year The Committee has reviewed: the prioritisation and sequencing of the various IT programmes: the tender process for systems relating to an e-commerce platform: the requirements and capacity of the operational platform: and the capabilities required to deliver the IT programmes.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued A.
2 Division of responsibilities COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, set CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE out in writing, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
They The Company has, throughout the 2015 financial year, complied are available on easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
without exception with the provisions of the UK Corporate easyJet.
The Chairmans role is to lead the Board and Governance Code issued in September 2014 the Code, which is ensure that it operates effectively.
The Chief Executives role the version of the Code which applies to its 2015 financial year.
The is the day-to-day running of the Groups businesses and the section below details how the Company has complied with the Code, development and implementation of strategy.
The following disclosures are ordered into A.
3 The Chairman the sections as they appear in the Code.
The Chairman, John Barton, sets the Boards agenda and ensures A.
Leadership that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, A.
1 Role of the Board in particular strategic issues.
On his appointment in May 2013, the The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership to the Board considered John Barton to be independent in character airline.
It does this by setting strategic priorities and overseeing and judgement in accordance with the Code.
their delivery in a way that enables sustainable long-term growth, A.
4 Non-Executive Directors while maintaining a balanced approach to risk within a Charles Gurassa is Senior Independent Director and Deputy framework of effective controls.
In this role, Charles provides advice and additional The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its support and experience to the Chairman as required, and is decision which is available in the governance section of easyJets available to act as an intermediary for the other Directors if corporate website: http: corporate.
Charles is also available to address shareholders management responsibility rests with the Executive Management concerns that have not been resolved through the normal Team, listed on pages 50 to 51.
These individuals are also the channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive Directors and Company Secretary of the principal operating or other Executive Directors, and leads the appraisal of the company, easyJet Airline Company Limited.
Chairmans performance annually in consultation with the other Non-Executive Directors in a meeting without the Chairman The Board meets regularly, with nine scheduled meetings having being present.
The Non-Executive Directors, together with the been held during the year.
The Directors attendance records at Chairman, have also met without any Executive Directors present those meetings and Board Committee meetings held during the during the year.
During the year, there were no unresolved year are shown in the table below.
In addition to those scheduled concerns regarding the running of the Company.
meetings, four ad hoc Board meetings were also arranged to deal with matters arising between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to communicate directly with senior management between Board meetings.
Attendance at scheduled meetings IT Governance Audit Remuneration Finance Safety Nominations and Oversight Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of scheduled meetings 9 4 3 4 4 2 6 Executive Directors 1 Carolyn McCall OBE 9 1 1 4 1 6 2 Chris Kennedy 7 4 3 3 Andrew Findlay 1 1 Non-Executive Directors John Barton 9 2 3 1 3 2 Charles Gurassa 9 3 4 2 3 Keith Hamill OBE 9 4 4 1 5 John Browett 8 3 1 6 4 Rigas Doganis 1 1 4 1 Adle Anderson 9 4 4 1 6 Andrew Martin 9 4 4 1 5 Andreas Bierwirth 9 3 1 Franois Rubichon 9 3 2 Not a member of the Board or Committee attendance at meeting by invitation.
1 Carolyn McCall stepped down as a member of the Safety Committee on 1 December 2014 but continued to attend meetings by invitation.
2 Chris Kennedy stepped down as a Director on 1 September 2015 and missed one Board meeting when on jury service.
3 Keith Hamill missed an IT Governance and Oversight Committee meeting due to the rearrangement of the meeting date at short notice conflicting with pre-existing arrangements.
4 Rigas Doganis stepped down as a Director on 1 December 2014 but continued to chair the Safety Committee.
5 Andreas Bierwirth joined the Safety Committee on 1 December 2014. easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 60 Strategic report Governance Accounts B.
1 Composition of the Board All members of the Board are supplied with appropriate, clear As at 30 September 2015, the Board comprised eight Nonand accurate information in a timely manner covering matters Executive Directors including the Chairman and one Executive which are to be considered at forthcoming Board or Director, Chris Kennedy having left the Company on 1 September Committee meetings.
The number of Executive Directors increased to two when Should Directors judge it necessary to seek independent legal Andrew Findlay joined on 2 October 2015. advice about the performance of their duties with the Company, After giving thorough consideration to the matter, the Board they are entitled to do so at the Companys expense.
Directors considers Adle Anderson, Dr. Andreas Bierwirth, John Browett, also have access to the advice and services of the Company Charles Gurassa, Keith Hamill, Andy Martin and Franois Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board on all Rubichon to be Non-Executive Directors who are independent governance matters and ensuring that Board procedures in character and judgement.
2 Appointments to the Board The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is For information on the procedure for the appointment of a matter requiring Board approval.
new Directors to the Board, and the role of the Nominations B.
6 Evaluation Committee in this process, refer to the Nominations Committee A performance review of the Board, its Committees and Directors report on page 58. was undertaken with the assistance of an external facilitator, B.
3 Commitment Independent Audit Limited, during the period.
Independent Audit Following the Board evaluation process, detailed further below, has no connection with the Company beyond evaluating the the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors is able to Board.
It is intended to hold an externally facilitated review every allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their three years.
The evaluation process took place in the summer and involved Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made interviews with each Director and a number of the Executive available at the Annual General Meeting or on request.
Independent Audit Limited also reviewed the standard terms and conditions of the appointment of NonBoard and committee papers over the past year and attended Executive Directors are also available in the governance section and observed the July Board meeting.
of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
The review extended to all aspects of Board and committee Executive Directors are encouraged to take up non-executive performance including composition and dynamics, the Chairmans positions in other companies or organisations.
Carolyn McCall, the leadership, agenda and focus, clarity as to role with particular Chief Executive, has acted as Non-Executive Director at Burberry focus on its effectiveness in relation to strategic development, Group plc since September 2014.
Appointment to such positions oversight of risk and succession planning, and priorities for is subject to the approval of the Board which considers, amongst change.
Independent Audit Limited provided a report to the other things, the time commitment required.
The Executive Board, which was included in the papers for the Boards Management Team are permitted to hold one appointment on September meeting.
a Board or committee of a listed company so long as this is not Charles Gurassa, as Senior Independent Director, led a review of thought to interfere with the business of the Group.
the Chairmans performance and held a private meeting of the B.
4 Development Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present to discuss On joining the Board, new members receive a tailored induction, the Chairmans performance.
The Executive Directors and the organised by the Company Secretary, which covers amongst Non-Executive Directors also reviewed and were satisfied with other things: the Chairmans time commitment to the Board and the business.
the business of the Group: The Chairman conducted a process of evaluating the performance and contribution of each Director which included their legal and regulatory responsibilities as Directors: a one-to-one performance evaluation and feedback discussion briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and with each of them.
opportunities to visit and experience easyJets business The Board has started to determine appropriate actions in operations.
response to the areas highlighted in these reviews.
It will also continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development To update the Directors skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Group, visits to bases are organised for the Board periodically, objectives in the year ahead.
to assist its understanding of the operational issues that the The Board considers that the performance review shows that business faces.
The Board were invited to attend a country each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrate review Board and also observe the innovation day which was commitment to the role including commitment of time for Board run in Milan in June 2015.
A briefing paper is provided to Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
members to update them on relevant developments in law, regulation and best practice, usually two to four times per year.
7 Re-election Directors are encouraged to highlight specific areas where they The Companys Articles of Association require the Directors to feel their skills or knowledge would benefit from development submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
The Board is every three years.
However, the Board has decided that all confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and Directors will stand for re-election or election at each Annual experience to perform the functions required of a Director of General Meeting in accordance with the Code.
com 61 Corporate governance report continued C. Accountability E. Relations with shareholders C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders Please refer to: The Company actively engages with investors and solicits their feedback.
The Chairman met with shareholders to help maintain page 84 for the Boards statement on the Annual report a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
He has and accounts being fair, balanced and understandable: updated the Board on the opinions of investors.
The views of page 22 for the statement on the status of the Company shareholders and market perceptions are also regularly and the Group as a going concern: and communicated to the Board via verbal briefings.
the Strategic report on pages 6-15 for an explanation of the easyJet has an investor relations department which runs an Companys business model and the strategy for delivering active programme to facilitate engagement with investors based the objectives of the Company.
around the financial reporting calendar.
C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control This year the programme has included one-to-one meetings The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal with institutional investors, road shows and conferences.
There risks facing the Company and how those risks affect the is also regular communication with institutional investors on prospects of the Company.
Please refer to pages 24-29 for key business issues.
further information on the Companys principal risks and During the course of the year the Chairman and Chief Executive uncertainties and page 22 for their impact on the prospects have both met with a representative of easyGroup Holdings of the Company.
Limited, the Companys largest shareholder, to discuss relevant The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control matters.
The Chief Financial Officer, Chris Kennedy, has also met and for reviewing their effectiveness rests with the Board.
The separately with representatives of easyGroup Ltd an affiliate of Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness easyGroup Holdings Limited to discuss matters relating to the of the systems of internal control during the year, under the management and protection of the easyJet and easy brands.
auspices of the Audit Committee.
Further information on the E. 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Companys risk management and internal control systems is The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the given on page 63. opportunity to communicate directly with the Board and C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors encourages their participation.
Shareholders are given the For further information on the Companys compliance with the opportunity to raise issues formally at the Annual General Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee and auditors, Meeting or informally with Directors after the meeting.
All please refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 54-57.
Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and the Chairs of the Committees are available to answer questions at D. Remuneration the Annual General Meeting.
For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provisions relating to remuneration, please refer to: the Directors remuneration report on pages 64-83 for the level and components of remuneration D. 1 : and page 53 the Remuneration Committee Report for the procedure relating to remuneration D. 2. easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 62 Strategic report Governance Accounts Internal control RISK MANAGEMENT AND The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control INTERNAL CONTROL procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
The internal control The Board has overall responsibility for easyJets risk systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk management and systems of internal control.
of failure to achieve business objectives.
By their nature, they can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against Risk management material misstatement or loss.
easyJet has an established risk management process to ensure that significant risks are identified and mitigated where possible.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness For further details of the risk management process, the principal of the systems of internal control during the year, under the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the associated auspices of the Audit Committee.
This included reviews of mitigating actions, please refer to pages 24-29. systems and controls relating to financial reporting processes and the preparation of the accounts.
The internal financial In order that risks are managed effectively, a number of activities control monitoring programme, administered by Internal Audit, are undertaken: has continued to enhance the review process.
ongoing risk management and assurance is provided through The internal control regime is supported by the operation of the various monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms that a whistleblower reporting function.
The system is operated by are embedded into the business operations: a specialist external third-party service provider and allows regular operational including safety, commercial, financial and employees to report concerns anonymously and in confidence.
IT functional meetings are held to review performance and to The Audit Committee has approved the processes and reporting consider key risks and issues: please refer to pages 52-53 for structure for the function, and receives regular reports on details of the Safety Committee : and its operation.
the Executive Management Team meets regularly to consider Internal audit significant risks and overall business performance.
The Internal Audit functions key objectives are to provide independent and objective assurance on risks and controls to the To mitigate any significant risks identified, the Directors review Board, Audit Committee and senior management, and to assist the effectiveness of internal controls, including operating, the Board in meeting its corporate governance and regulatory financial and compliance controls, by the following: responsibilities.
Its work is summarised in a risk-based audit plan, review by management of controls, which mitigate or minimise which is approved by the Audit Committee and updated on a high-level risks, to ensure that they are in operation.
of this review are reported to the Audit Committee and the Internal Audit reviews the extent to which systems of internal control: Board which considers whether these high-level risks are being effectively controlled: and are designed and operating effectively: discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company.
are adequate to manage easyJets key risks: and This ensures key issues are escalated through the management safeguard the Groups assets.
team and, as appropriate, ultimately to the Board.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Head of Risk and Tax The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the and has direct access to the Chief Executive and the Chairman appropriateness of the risk management processes to ensure of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit is invited to, that they are sufficiently robust to meet the needs of the and attends, Audit Committee meetings throughout the year Group please refer to pages 54-57 for details of the Audit and reports regularly on Internal Audit reviews to the Executive Committees responsibilities.
During the year, the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was assessed by the Audit Committee.
The role of the Internal Audit function and the scope of its work both continue to evolve to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
A formal audit charter is in place.
