AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The members of the Audit Committee the Committee are shown on Met in December to: i review the effectiveness of the internal audit page 26, together with their biographical information.
As well as being programme and PwCs performance, supported by the results of Chairman, I am the Committee member with recent and relevant financial survey questionnaire completed by finance staff: ii receive PwCs H2 experience required under governance rules.
All Committee members internal audit programme report: iii review the adequacy of resources were considered to be independent throughout 2015.
There were four made available to PwC and the arrangements they have in place to meetings held and the attendance records of Committee members are ensure they can deliver an effective internal audit service: iv approve shown on page 29.
It is the Committees policy that both executive the re-appointment of PwC as internal auditors, agree fees and a directors and the external auditor KPMG are invited to attend all of its programme of work for 2016: v receive update report from KPMG meetings, except when the discussion concerns KPMG or when it is a ontheir audit plan and progress: vi discuss whether or not to meeting without management present, and other finance staff are invited continue publishing an interim management statement: vii discuss to attend where appropriate.
The internal audit service providers PwC abriefing on dividend disclosures: and viii discuss progress on report formally twice a year to the Committee and therefore attended two theaudit tender process.
External audit tender process A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available on the The Committee decided to implement a tender process involving only two Companys website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: firms: Deloitte and Ernst & Young.
During various discussions, it became apparent that for a Group of our size and geographical spread, the auditor Monitor the integrity of Group financial statements, financial reporting would have to be selected from one of the Big Four firms.
We agreed that and related statements, as well as the clarity and completeness of as KPMG has been external auditor since 2004, we would comply with disclosures including narrative reports and governance statements the spirit of the audit rotation rules by not asking KPMG to seek to renew accompanying financial and related statements.
In addition, as PwC are the internal audit service provider to Ensure the appropriateness of accounting policies, any changes the Group, it was also decided not to invite them to participate in the tothem and any significant estimates and judgements made.
Review the effectiveness of internal control, compliance and risk management systems including whistleblowing arrangements.
Over the summer, the Chairman of the Board, Finance Director and I met Oversee all aspects of the relationship with the internal and external individually with partners from Deloitte and Ernst & Young to test our auditors, such as: negotiating and approving their terms of proposition that a two way tender would work and satisfy ourselves that appointment, fees, the scope, manner and programme of work: both firms would be fully committed to the tender process.
monitoring resourcing, performance and effectiveness, independence and objectivity: approving the policy on non-audit services: making In October, a request for proposal was issued to provide external audit recommendations to the Board for their dismissal or changes: and and audit-related services in respect of the Group, parent company and supervising any tender process.
certain subsidiary accounts including review of preliminary results and interim financial statements and certain governance and remuneration The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show how disclosures in the Annual Report.
ithas discharged its responsibilities in 2015: Both firms were required to submit their proposals against the following Met in February to: i meet KPMG without management present: criteria: ii review in combination with KPMGs audit report the 2014 Annual Organisation and capability including the firms structure and global Report and associated preliminary results statement, management coverage, experience and service capability, technical knowledge and representation letter to the auditors, internal control and going concern expertise, and culture and service philosophy.
statements, tax, litigation and compliance reports including Staffing, resourcing and engagement including experience, expertise whistleblowing arrangements and the effectiveness, independence and qualities of audit partners and senior team members in our key and objectivity of the auditors: iii approve the description of the work geographies, global team structure and coordination, partner rotation of Committee in the Annual Report: iv recommend to the Board the and succession plans, and client communication, service and approval of the Annual Report as well as the reappointment of KPMG: reporting model.
v consider a proposal from management on non-audit services Audit approach and delivery including knowledge of our business, without KPMG being present: and vi discuss carrying out an external induction and transition plan, audit planning process and approach, audit tender process during 2015. use of innovation and technology, scope of audit, management of Met in June to: i receive and discuss KPMGs audit strategy and plan global audits, and interaction with and reliance upon internal audit.
for 2015: ii approve KPMGs letter of engagement and proposed fee Quality control and independence including audit effectiveness and for the interim review: iii progress the discussion on audit tender and reporting, process improvement and added value, and independence the market for the provision of non-audit services following EU and objectivity.
regulations in this area: and iv discuss the FRCs review of the 2014 Fees and terms of business.
Annual Report and the Companys planned response.
Met in July to: i review PwCs H1 internal audit programme report and As part of the tender process, an induction programme was organised for managements responses to the audit findings: ii consider in both firms which involved a series of meetings and interactions with head combination with KPMGs H1 review report the 2015 interim results office staff, site visits to East Windsor in New Jersey to meet members of announcement incorporating a management report and condensed the management and business leadership teams and visits to calls with financial statements and notes, management representation letter to our Asia management team.
This was followed by written submission of the auditors and the half year litigation, compliance and tax reports, audit tender proposals and a presentation to an audit selection panel aswell as the half year going concern statement: iii approve proposed comprising the Chairman of the Board, myself as Audit Committee fees for the Group year end audit: iv review and confirm the Chairman, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Company Companys compliance programme: v consider briefings on the Secretary the Panel.
All Directors received a full copy of the tender business viability statement requirement: vi discuss and approve proposals which were discussed in meetings of the Committee and the theFRS disclosure framework UK GAAP to adopt for the UK parent Board, prior to the Panel making its final selection of the firm the company: and vii approve arrangements to implement an audit Committee should recommend to the Board for proposing to tenderprocess.
32 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Both Deloitte and Ernst & Young met the criteria for appointment, Since 2015 was KPMGs last audit, we decided not to undertake however, the Panel concluded that Deloitte demonstrated better the aquestionnaire survey of the field locations but to review KPMGs organisational and personnel fit, resources, expertise and audit approach performance by reference to the quality of its audit report and opinion, to deliver a high quality audit and service to Elementis.
Accordingly, the itsengagement with management and its quality assurance procedures.
Committee has recommended that the Board proposes that Deloitte be The Committee concluded KPMGs performance to be satisfactory and appointed the Companys auditors at the 2016 AGM.
that the audit is effective as measured against their letter of engagement and the scope of services agreed.
Competition & Markets Authority order statement of compliance The Committee confirms that the Company is compliant with the order The Committee considers the auditors objectivity and independence onmandatory tendering of audit contracts.
It receives reports from KPMG on its internal quality control and independence rules, and keeps under review the level of Significant accounting and other issues non-audit services KPMG provides.
The Committee is of the view that The primary areas of accounting judgement considered by the Committee KPMG were objective and independent throughout the 2015 audit in relation to the 2015 financial statements are listed below: process notwithstanding the level of non-audit services provided.
Provisions Non-audit services The Committee reviewed the latest estimates for future spending In 2015, non-audit services of $0.8 million from KPMG were approved relating to the Groups environmental provisions recorded in the bythe Committee 2014: $0.6 million.
These services consisted mainly Consolidated balance sheet.
The Committee also reviewed the oftax advisory services in relation to the US, the UK, Netherlands, discount rate used in calculating the provision balances and concluded Germany, China and Taiwan.
KPMGs knowledge of the business meant it that the rate should remain the same as the previous years rate due to could provide these services cost effectively and the safeguards a stability in US borrowing rates.
explained previously mean the Committee does not consider the provision of these services to affect the auditors independence and objectivity.
Assumptions used to value pension scheme liabilities The Committee reviewed the assumptions used to value the liabilities The Companys policy on non-audit services contains guidance on the of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, as well as the types of non-audit work that the external auditors may be considered for.
USpost retirement medical plan, which the Groups actuarial advisers This guidance is in addition to other specified factors that must be taken considered to be appropriate given the characteristics of each plan.
into consideration, such as the expertise and resources of the firm, whether the services could risk jeopardising audit independence and the Taxation fee relative to the audit fee.
Examples of services that the external auditors The Committee discussed the recoverability of its tax assets and may and may not be allowed to perform under the policy can be found on reviewed the underlying assumptions to the Groups 2015 tax rate and the Companys website.
Our policy will be reviewed during the year to noted that the underlying tax rate had declined versus the previous ensure compliance with new EU rules on the provision of non-audit year, due to a change in the geographical mix of profits and also services by auditors.
Under our policy, the Finance Director may approve individual Non-recurring items engagements where the fee is up to 15 per cent of the Groups audit fee The Committee reviewed a number of items recorded in the for the previous year, provided that the total non-audit fees in the year do Consolidated income statement which it considered should be not exceed 50 per cent of that Group audit fee.
Decisions above these separately disclosed because of their size and or one time nature, thresholds must be referred to the Committee for determination.
thereby providing the reader with a better understanding of the financial information presented.
It concluded that these items should Internal control and risk management system be shown separately in the Consolidated income statement as The Committees formal remit includes reviewing the effectiveness of non-recurring items.
The Committee also noted that, in previous theinternal control, compliance and risk management systems which it years, items of this nature had been termed exceptional items but carries out in support of the Boards formal review of significant risks and concluded that the term non-recurring was more appropriate going material controls, as summarised in the Risk management report.
Further details of these items are included in Note 5 to the focus of the Committees work when it reviews internal audit reports is Consolidated financial statements.
mainly on financial, operational and compliance risks.
PwC, who provides an outsourced internal audit function, plays a significant role in the Audit effectiveness, objectivity and independence Groups internal control process, which is designed for the purposes As Chairman of the Committee I meet with the audit partner frequently, ofpreventing material financial loss and fraud, safeguarding the value including for both audit planning and review meetings.
The Committee ofassets including reputation and ensuring compliance with laws, meets the audit partner and usually the senior manager at all four of its regulations and Group policies.
formal meetings but it is the Finance Director and finance teams who havemost exposure to the audit team.
The Groups internal control and risk management system is only designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve To help the Committee carry out a formal review of the external auditors business objectives and therefore the Board can only provide reasonable, performance, a questionnaire based evaluation is undertaken towards the and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The end of each year end audit cycle by members of our finance team globally.
Board is of the view that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating The questionnaire used is the template produced by KPMGs Audit and managing significant risks faced by the Group was in place Committee Institute which considers comprehensively different aspects throughout the financial year under review and up to the date that this of the audit process.
The Committee also monitors audit effectiveness Annual Report was approved.
No significant internal control failings or byreviewing Audit Quality Inspection reports published by the FRC.
weaknesses were reported last year so none is disclosed here.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 33 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Internal control and risk management system continued Controls assurance Set out below is a summary of the key features of the Groups internal The controls assurance framework at Elementis is threefold: control and risk management system.
Board leadership supported by an open and transparent culture of Control environment nosurprises, good governance and compliance.
This means knowing The Group has policies and procedures that set out the responsibilities and understanding the businesses, quality interactions between ofbusiness and site management, including authority levels, reporting theBoard, management and business leadership teams including disciplines and responsibility for risk management and internal control.
aregular programme of presentations and reports to the Board, as Inaddition, annual compliance statements on internal control are certified well as operational site visits.
Internal and external audit programme, regular litigation and compliance reviews with the General Counsel and a programme Risk identification and review ofcompliance audits, regulatory inspections, environmental reviews A formal risk review process exists at Board and management team levels and property surveys by external specialists.
for the identification, evaluation, mitigation and ongoing monitoring of Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on which all employees risks.
See separate Risk management report.
are given training and are required to self certify compliance with, supplemented by an online compliance training programme, an Financial reporting anti-bribery and corruption policy, which contractors are also The Group operates a comprehensive financial reporting system including requiredto sign up to, whistleblowing arrangements and an forecasts, consolidation and monthly reporting.
Board reports include anti-retaliation policy.
fullmanagement accounts, comprising monthly and year to date profit and loss statements, cash flow statements and balance sheet, with Fair, balanced and understandable segmental and individual business performance analyses, as well as The Board and Committee understand the governance requirements relevant performance indicators.
Actual monthly results are monitored forthe Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and against budget, forecasts and the previous years results.
Any significant understandable, and that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, variances are investigated and acted upon as appropriate.
As well as balanced should mean even handed in terms of being positive and monthly management accounts, each operating division prepares an negative and understandable should mean simple, clear and free annual and a three year operating plan which is approved by the Board.
Thereafter a formal re-forecasting exercise is undertaken three times ayear.
The Board and Committee consider the Annual Report for 2015, taken asa whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the Investment appraisal information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position There are clearly defined investment guidelines for capital expenditure.
and performance, business model and strategy.
Allinvestment expenditure is subject to formal authorisation procedures, with major proposals being considered by the Board.
Anne Hyland Internal audit programme Chairman, Audit Committee An internal audit programme is proposed by PwC in consultation with 1 March 2016 theFinance Director and approved by the Audit Committee each year, setting out a programme of audits over the course of the next 12 months.
The programme covers the monitoring of the effectiveness ofinternal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
As well as conducting audits of operating facilities, sales offices and toller sites on a two to three year rotational basis, the internal audit programme includes reviews of Group functions and processes that in the past have included, for example, HR and payroll, legal expenditure, treasury, HSE and GHG reporting, as well as reviewing compliance with capital investment authorisations.
In 2016, PwC has been asked to review our risk management and forecasting and budgeting processes.
34 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015
