NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Chairman and members of the Nomination Committee the Met in December to: i discuss the results of the externally facilitated Committee are shown on page 26, together with their biographical Board evaluation exercise and agree actions arising therefrom: and information.
Six meetings were held during 2015 and the attendance ii review the Chairmans performance last item was chaired by the records of Committee members are shown on page 29.
It is the Senior Independent Director with the Chairman absent from the Committees policy that the Chief Executive is invited to attend all discussions and both executive directors in attendance.
ofitsmeetings, except when the discussion concerns the Chief Executive Following the evaluation review, the Board is satisfied that all our or when it is a meeting of non-executives only, and other executives are directors, both executives and non-executives, contribute effectively invited to attend where appropriate.
and demonstrate appropriate commitment to their roles and, therefore, shareholders are asked to support their re-election at the AGM.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available on the A follow-up to our evaluation process is planned in the early part of this Companys website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: year for me to meet with each director to take soundings, review individual performance and discuss any specific training needs.
Reviewing the size and composition of the Board, together with the In terms of the evaluation process, this focused on the following areas: skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members and Board basics use of time, quality of information, operation, support :  for change as necessary.
Board contribution culture, dynamics, composition : and areas and Carrying out an annual performance evaluation of the Board, its depth of engagement strategy, risk and control, performance committees and individual members.
A number of suggestions Keeping succession planning for the Board and senior executive team were made to help enhance the way the Board interacts, operates and under review.
manages its time, but no significant deficiency or weakness was identified.
The main challenges were considered to be maintaining the The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show how relationships and dynamics within the Board during a CEO transition ithas discharged its responsibilities in 2015: and accelerating the strategy development process.
Other areas of focus for the Board included management succession planning, Met in February to review disclosures in the 2014 Annual Report.
further development of the risk agenda e. g. risk appetite and keeping Met in March as a meeting of non-executive directors only, to the Boards composition under review.
discuss in general terms strategy, management performance and successionplanning.
Shareholders may find the biographical information provided on pages 26 Met in May following the announcement of David Dutros intention and 27 useful to help them understand how a directors background or toretire to implement succession plans by: i confirming that Korn experience influences the contribution he or she makes to the operation Ferry Whitehead Mann Korn Ferry, who had worked with the Board and effectiveness of the Board.
This will also assist shareholders in in previous recruitment processes, would be assisting the Committee assessing the skills and experience of the Board, as a whole, when to identify appropriate candidates internal and external : ii approving determining how to vote on certain resolutions at the AGM.
The a CEO role specification: and iii agreeing other procedural matters, information should also be read in conjunction with the Notice of Meeting such as confidentiality and timetable.
accompanying this Annual Report proposing the election re-election of all Met in June to: i discuss and agree format of Board evaluation: directors at the 2016 AGM.
ii review and discuss progress in the CEO recruitment process and, inparticular, consider long and short list candidates: and iii review In connection with the retention of Korn Ferry during 2015, the Board business critical role succession plans with the CEO.
confirms it has no other relationship with the firm other than as Met in July twice to: i select four finalists from the six remaining short recruitment adviser.
listed candidates for a second stage interview with a panel of Committee members all six of whom had already been interviewed byKorn Ferry and by the Chairman and Senior Independent Director : Andrew Duff and ii select and recommend to the Board a preferred candidate from Chairman the four finalists to enter into discussions over terms.
1 March 2016 Towards the end of August, the Committee agreed that Boardroom Review Limited BRL would be engaged to carry out an external Board effectiveness review that included individual interviews with Board members and the Secretary, as well as observing at a Board and committee meeting.
There are no connections between the Company and BRL other than the services provided in connection with the evaluation review.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 31
