Compliance with the Code Director attendance in 2015 Board composition As identified on pages 26 and 27, the Board comprises two executive Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee directors Chief Executive and Finance Director and five non-executive directors including the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Andrew Duff 8 8 6 6 7 7 TheChairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, whilst the Chief David Dutro 8 8 Executive is responsible for running the Groups businesses.
The roles Brian Taylorson 8 8 ofChairman and Chief Executive are separate, clearly defined and Andrew Christie 8 8 4 4 6 6 7 7 noindividual has unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman Steve Good 8 8 4 4 6 6 7 7 issupported by the Senior Independent Director who is available to shareholders if the normal channels for raising any concern prove to Anne Hyland 8 8 4 4 6 6 7 7 beineffective or inappropriate.
Nick Salmon 8 8 4 4 6 6 7 7 The Chairman sets the style and tone in which the Board operates and Chairman of Committee retired from the Board on 7 February 2016 ensures there is a forum for constructive discussion and challenge, as well as a framework and the conditions to enable the Board as a whole, and Board independence its individual directors, to contribute effectively in the performance of their The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent roles.
Such a framework and conditions include access to information, incharacter and judgement throughout 2015 and is satisfied that each support and development opportunities, understanding the views of director exercises independent judgement.
The directors are required shareholders, and maintaining constructive relationships between atall times to avoid conflicts of interest, act for a proper purpose and in executive and non-executive members of the Board.
the best interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties.
No individual or group dominates decision making.
Information about the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment with the Company Board operation including remuneration and fee levels is set out in the Directors The Board has a formal programme of activities that are undertaken remuneration report.
All non-executive directors are appointed for three atscheduled meetings throughout the year and this is supplemented year terms that can be renewed by mutual agreement, subject to annual byad hoc meetings, conference calls or other Board events, as and when re-election by shareholders, satisfactory performance and meeting appropriate.
Eight formal meetings were held in 2015 and the attendance independence requirements.
records of the directors are shown in the table above.
The Board is supported in its activities by Board committees that have been delegated Information about the Boards CEO recruitment process in 2015 is given specific responsibilities as set out in their terms of reference and a formal inthe Nomination Committee report.
schedule of matters reserved for the Board allows certain decisions to bedelegated to the executive directors.
The schedule of matters reserved Board evaluation for the Board includes: approval of strategic and annual operating plans: The Board carried out an externally facilitated evaluation of its approval of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals: risk performance during the latter part of 2015.
More details are set out compliance and management programmes, as well as insurance intheNomination Committee report.
arrangements: major non-recurring projects and major capital expenditures: and major legal settlements and litigation.
The Board Having carried out such an evaluation, the Board considers that reviews the business, financial and operational HSE performance itscomposition contains the appropriate balance of diversity of views, oftheGroup at each of its formal meetings, including major business qualifications, skills, experience and personal attributes necessary initiatives, threats and opportunities, as well as progress on product tocarry out its duties and responsibilities, although it will keep this innovation and new customers.
underreview as the process of strategy development under the new CEOprogresses.
Board and committee dates are scheduled at least a year in advance, asare overseas site visits, and a 12 month forward planner helps to Board diversity ensure that the Board spends an appropriate amount of its time focused The Boards policy is that appointments should be made on the basis on the strategic issues affecting the Groups businesses.
The Board agrees that diversity, including gender diversity, is an important factor in Board effectiveness and To assist the Board in carrying out its duties, information of an appropriate supports the Codes principles and provisions on gender diversity.
As part quality is issued in a timely manner ahead of Board and committee of its commitment, the Board insists that any recruitment adviser retained meetings.
If there are any unresolved matters concerning Board ensures female candidates are included in any long list presented for decisions, of which there were none in 2015, these would be recorded consideration and this was the case in respect of the CEO search process inthe minutes of meetings.
In relation to the recommendations of the Davies Review into Women on Boards, the Board has not set a minimum target for the percentage of the Board to be female.
Gender diversity below Board level is discussed in the Corporate responsibility report.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Induction, development and support Directors and officers liability insurance All new directors participate in an induction programme that includes The Company maintains liability insurance for the directors and officers meeting the management team, other senior executives and business ofthe Company and its subsidiaries.
Since 2008, the directors of the leaders: meeting the internal and external auditors: meeting the Company have been in receipt of an indemnity from the Company in Companys joint corporate brokers: meeting major shareholders where respect of any liability or loss that may arise out of, or in connection with, appropriate : and undertaking a programme of site visits.
Paul Waterman the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors received a similar but more extensive and intensive induction programme ofthe Company, or of any subsidiary, to the extent permitted under which, in addition to the above, included a series of meetings with the theCompanies Act 2006.
Copies of these indemnities, which continue Chairman, executive directors and Company Secretary, as well as toremain in place, are available for inspection at the Companys attendance at Board and committee meetings held in December.
registered office during normal business hours and will be available forinspection at the AGM.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice, as appropriate, By order of the Board at the expense of the Company.
Directors are given the opportunity throughout the year to undertake training and attend seminars to keep their skills and knowledge up to date, and receive internal briefings Wai Wong ontechnical and or other regulatory developments that they need to Company Secretary bemade aware of.
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman 1 March 2016 inensuring that the Board and Board committees operate within the governance framework adopted and that communication and information flows within the Board and its committees and between management andnon-executive directors are effective.
Communications with shareholders The Company maintains a programme of activities throughout the year toensure there is effective communication with shareholders, analysts and the financial press that include stock exchange announcements, investor meetings, the Annual Report and updates on the corporate website.
The AGM gives institutional and private shareholders the opportunity to speak with the directors and the Chairmen of the Audit andRemuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
It is our practice to ensure the Board receives regular feedback from shareholders following meetings with management in results and other investor roadshows.
Analysts forecasts and research reports about the Company and the wider chemicals sector, as well as presentations and reports from the Companys joint corporate brokers, are provided to all directors on a timely basis, helping non-executive directors to develop aclear understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for contact by shareholders at any time.
From time to time, where appropriate, the Chairman and, in connection with remuneration proposals, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will organise a programme of meetings with major shareholders to update them on any significant developments in business strategy, corporate governance matters or consult them on proposals forexecutive remuneration.
30 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015
