Corporate Governance report Dear fellow shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our corporate governance reports for 2015.
This year the business has gone through a very significant period of change with the appointment of our new Group Chief Executive.
The Boards role in such a period of change has been particularly important with robust corporate governance supporting the transition.
Further details can be found in the Nomination Committee report on pages 65 and 66.
The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and actively engages in two-way communication with The Boards role in such a them.
During the year we held numerous face-to-face meetings, hosted site visits and period of change has been invited shareholders to presentations on both the Groups financial results and elements of particularly important its strategy.
I also had several meetings with shareholders about management succession.
with robust corporate As a UK listed company, we are required governance supporting to explain how we have applied the main principles set out in the UK Corporate the transition.
Governance Code Code and whether the relevant provisions have been complied with throughout the financial year.
This report explains how we have applied the Code during the year and confirms our compliance.
During the last financial year we conducted our first externally facilitated Board evaluation.
This year we have carried out an internal evaluation which was built upon the findings of last years.
The results and recommendations of this years evaluation are discussed in detail later in this report, as well as progress made on last years external evaluation.
Executive remuneration has been a topic of considerable interest again over the year with the new regulations coming into play for the first time.
The Remuneration Committee has been busy reviewing the consequent evolution of market practice and considering the implications for implementation of our policy.
The Directors Remuneration Report on page 67 sets out in detail the Companys approach.
Peter Johnson Chairman 21 May 2015 www.
com Stock Code: ECM 50 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance Board activity The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and actively engages in two-way communication Strategy Shareholder relations Throughout the year, the Board has reviewed the Groups The Board engaged with smaller shareholders at the 2014 strategy and plans for delivering our key strategic Annual General Meeting AGM held in July, and during the priorities.
Regular discussions have taken place with senior year the Executive Directors had face-to-face meetings and management monitoring progress against the strategic and calls with institutional shareholders and analysts in the UK, budgetary targets.
Full details of our key strategic priorities North America and Europe.
Further details can be found on can be found in the Strategic Report on page 10.
The Board regularly reviews reports that contain ongoing basis as well as tracking progress against the investor feedback from institutional investors, compiled by strategic KPIs, the Board approves investment proposals the Companys brokers.
This included a detailed review of and significant capital expenditure.
Previous strategic investor feedback, perceptions and a review of the shape of investment proposals are reviewed, to consider whether the existing shareholder register.
they delivered on their anticipated benefits and to establish Governance any learnings from the relevant projects.
The Board has also Following last years externally facilitated evaluation of its received updates on competitor results as well as general effectiveness, the Board carried out an internal review this developments in the market.
To enhance the Board members year, of itself, its committees and individual members.
knowledge of the business, they visited the German business Further details are given on page 55 of this report.
It in September, and in January they visited one of the Groups considered updates on a number of areas including the operational sites in the UK.
During these visits they met with management of inside information, corporate governance the management teams, had a demonstration from a key and competition law risk.
On a quarterly basis the Board supplier and presentations on global inventory planning and considers Group health and safety, and receives reports eCommerce.
on any grievances raised across the Group together with Financial a summary of the themes arising from the whistleblowing The Board reviewed and signed off on the 2014 Annual process Speak Up.
Report and Accounts and the Half-year financial report for Risk management the year under review, including discussion and approval During the year the Board has undertaken its annual full of the relevant final and interim dividends.
The Board Group Risk Review and has also considered more specific receives monthly updates on the financial performance of and detailed risk reviews such as the Groups approach to the Group, approves the annual budget, monitors progress managing export controls, IT system dependencies and risk on the strategic five-year plan and the reforecasts during in relation to competition law.
The Board has been updated the year.
The Board reviewed the investment strategy and on the ever changing nature of cyber risk and what actions recovery plan for the Defined Benefit pension plan, and has are being taken to manage this risk.
Looking forward, the reviewed and agreed the ongoing bank and loan refinancing Board has reviewed a register of principal risks affecting the programme.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 51 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance report continued The information required by the Code on Directors UK Corporate Governance Code accountability, our process for the appointment of Directors During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Company has including our approach to diversity and our report on been subject to the provisions of the Code published in Directors remuneration, can be found in the following September 2012.
The Code is publicly available at sections: www.
There are five main principles of the Code covering: Audit Committee report on page 58: Nomination Committee report on page 65: and Leadership Directors Remuneration Report on page 69.
Effectiveness Relations with shareholders During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Directors Accountability consider that the Company complied throughout the Remuneration accounting period with all the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
The sections within this Directors report explain how these principles have been applied.
Ensuring and maintaining the Groups systems of risk The Board management, internal control and corporate governance Role, effectiveness and composition Reviewing health and safety policy and its effectiveness The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Company.
The Board has carefully Discussing and agreeing strategic plans considered the guidance criteria regarding the composition On the advice of the Nomination Committee, reviewing of the Board under the Code.
In the opinion of the Board, succession plans for the Board and senior management the Chairman and all the Non-Executive Directors bring Evaluating Group and subsidiary performance and independence of judgement and character, a wealth of reviewing forecasts experience and knowledge, the appropriate balance of skills, and assign sufficient time to enable them to effectively The Board is fully committed to diversity of gender, race carry out their responsibilities and duties to the Board and and nationality and ensures it considers candidates from all to the committees on which they sit.
They are sufficiently such backgrounds when appointing new Board members.
independent of management and are free from any other Further details of our approach to diversity in relation to circumstances or relationships that could interfere with the appointments at Board level can be found in the Our people exercise of their judgement.
section on page 36 and the Nomination Committee report on page 65.
Biographical details of the Directors standing for election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM are set out on pages 44 Committees to 46 and in the Notice of Meeting.
These set out their skills The Board has a number of standing committees consisting and experience, together with details of their membership of certain Directors and, in the case of the GEC and Treasury of Board committees.
Details of the Boards composition, Committee, certain senior managers to whom specific tenure and international experience are also shown on these responsibilities have been delegated, and for which written pages.
terms of reference have been agreed.
These terms of The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its reference are available for inspection on the Companys approval which includes responsibility for: website.
Board members receive minutes of meetings of all of its committees, where appropriate, and can request The approval of the Group strategy and its budgetary and presentations or reports on areas of interest.
business plans The performance of the Audit, Nomination and The review and approval of major investment proposals Remuneration Committees are assessed annually as part of and capital expenditure the evaluation process described below.
Further details of The approval of annual and half-year results and trading the work, composition, role and responsibilities of the Audit, updates Remuneration and Nomination Committees are provided in separate reports on pages 58 to 89.
The approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment and recommendation of interim and final dividends The review and approval of Group tax strategy www.
com Stock Code: ECM 52 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance Effective division of responsibilities and Board operation The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by different individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive has been clearly established: their responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
Chairman Group Chief Executive Responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring Responsible for the Group on a day-to-day basis.
its effectiveness across all aspects of its role, setting Accountable to the Board for the operational its agenda to ensure adequate discussion of all items performance of the Group.
Responsible for the of business and promoting openness and debate.
The development of strategy and its presentation to Chairman facilitates constructive relations between the Board, the implementation of the agreed Group Non-Executive and Executive Directors and holds strategy and the achievement of its agreed objectives meetings with Non-Executive Directors without and its communication within the business and with Executives being present.
The Chairman also ensures all shareholders and the investment community.
Executive Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information management, including leadership of the executive and is responsible for effective communication between team, ensuring robust management succession the Board and its shareholders.
plans are in place and discussed with the Board and championing health and safety, risk, corporate responsibility and environmental matters.
Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Responsible for chairing the meeting of Non-Executive Responsible for upholding high standards of integrity Directors for the purpose of evaluating the Chairmans and probity.
Constructively challenge regarding strategy, performance.
The Senior Independent Director also performance of management and also satisfy themselves provides an alternative communication channel for on the integrity of financial information and controls shareholders, and other Directors if required, as well as and systems of risk management.
In doing so, they providing a sounding board for the Chairman.
take into account the views of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Group Finance Director Company Secretary Maintains strong financial management and implements Ensures efficient information flows within the Board and effective financial controls as well as developing the its committees and between Executive Directors and Groups financial policies and strategies including debt Non-Executive Directors, as well as acting as Secretary finance management and advising on capital structure.
to the Board and its committees.
Supports and advises Ensures a commercial focus across all business the Chairman on various matters including succession activities, the appropriateness of risk management planning.
Facilitates the induction of new directors as well as supporting and advising the Group Chief and assists with training and development needs as Executive and maintaining effective communications required.
Ensures compliance with Board procedures, with shareholders and investors.
corporate governance matters, statute and regulatory regimes affecting the Group, and updates the Board on these.
Co-ordination of Board evaluations including presenting the findings and recommending actions.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 53 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance report continued At each Board meeting: Information and development Training and induction The Group Chief Executive presents a comprehensive Directors are encouraged to update and refresh their skills, update on the business issues across the Group knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending external The Group Finance Director presents a detailed analysis seminars and briefings, through participation at meetings and of the financial performance, as well as reports on through visits to operating units, both in the UK and overseas, investor relations and feedback from investors as well as by receiving presentations from senior management.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the GEC members and other senior managers attend relevant Company Secretary.
parts of Board meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility, providing updates on Board committees and Directors are given access to developments and changes to the business independent professional advice at the Groups expense The Strategic Dashboard is included to provide an update if they deem it necessary in order for them to carry out on progress on the Groups strategic objectives their responsibilities.
Specific training provided to the Board during the year included share dealing requirements The Company Secretary presents a report on key and processes for the management of inside information regulatory and legal issues that affect the Group procedures, competition law risk and an update regarding Between Board meetings, Directors also meet with GEC corporate governance matters.
members and are provided with information in a timely A tailored induction programme is provided for each new manner on matters affecting the business as and when Director.
Further details of our induction programme can be relevant.
found in the Nomination Committee report on page 65.
The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board meetings Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information Committees during the year and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings, demonstrating on the matters to be discussed at each meeting.
The Board uses a third-party Board portal which enables faster and commitment to their role as Directors of the Company.
The Board normally meets seven times per year and more secure distribution of information whilst avoiding the need to circulate paper copies, minimising our effect on supplementary meetings of the Board are held as and when necessary.
The Company Secretary ensures good information flows within the Board and its committees and between executive management and Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Audit Board Nomination Committee Committee scheduled Committee scheduled scheduled 3 3 Number of meetings held during the year 7 4 3 6 Peter Johnson 7 7 6 1 Ian Mason 7 7 Simon Boddie 7 7 2 Adrian Auer 1 1 1 1 Karen Guerra 7 7 4 4 3 3 6 6 Paul Hollingworth 7 7 4 4 3 3 6 6 John Pattullo 7 7 4 4 3 3 6 6 Rupert Soames 7 7 4 4 3 3 6 6 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets 1.
Ian Mason stood down as Group Chief Executive with effect from 31 March 2015.
Adrian Auer resigned as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 30 June 2014.
Unscheduled Board and Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year in relation to the change of Group Chief Executive.
com Stock Code: ECM 54 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance were being discussed and believe that clear strategic Board evaluation targets are being properly tracked and reported against.
It The Board recognises the benefit of an external evaluation was also acknowledged that the risk process was working which it believes provides fresh insight and objectivity to well with positive discussions during the year around key its committees and Directors, enabling it to improve its areas such as cyber risk, export controls and IT disaster leadership, effectiveness and focus.
We aim to carry out recovery.
The Board discussed the results of feedback for externally facilitated evaluations every two or three years.
the Chairman and SID and overall the feedback was positive.
Following last years external evaluation, we have this year The Chairman also held one-to-one meetings with each carried out an internal evaluation which was co-ordinated of the Directors individually covering the themes outlined by the Company Secretary.
Initial discussions between the above, the dynamics of the Board, and the training and Chairman and the Company Secretary were held to discuss development needs of the Directors, as well as any other the design of the questionnaire and what the Board was areas of concern.
seeking to achieve from the evaluation.
The aim of the questionnaire sent to Board members was Outputs from last years external evaluation to gain views on certain key corporate governance areas As a result of last years external evaluation, the Board and to give members an opportunity to say candidly what now receives regular updates on the seven strategic they thought, including what was being done well and what priorities as part of its annual timetable, including an needed to be improved.
Views were also sought on the update on competitors, with a Strategic Dashboard Chairman and Senior Independent Director SID and also being discussed at each meeting.
The Nomination the workings of the committees of the Board.
Committee has met more frequently during the year to discuss Board succession plans and recruitment, The questionnaire included issues such as: taking into account the need for more diversity at Balance of skills and experience Board level.
The Board met with members of the senior management team to assess available talent within the Effectiveness of meetings and team dynamics Group.
Development and performance against strategy Outputs from this years internal evaluation Succession planning The Board agreed there should be greater discussion Risk management around succession plans for both the GEC and senior Training and development management.
Succession planning contingencies should be discussed including, in a period of change of The responses to the questionnaires were collated by the the Group Chief Executive, the prioritisation of shortCompany Secretary who prepared reports for the Chairman term issues, as well as the longer-term questions and the Chairman of each committee.
These reports were such as the development of change capability around then reviewed and discussed by the Board and each of the the business.
The Board will continue to focus on the committees as appropriate.
competitor landscape, looking at the different business models and marketplace developments in more detail.
The results of this years internal evaluation were again positive with good levels of engagement.
Board members agreed that meetings worked well, that the right topics 1 2 3 4 The Chairman The Company The Company Secretary prepared The reports of the findings discussed and agreed Secretary prepared reports of the findings from the review and recommendations were the scope of the a questionnaire identifying strengths, challenges and discussed by the Board, evaluation with the which was sent to priorities.
A number of recommendations and each of its committees, Company Secretary.
Board members for were also included for discussion by the agreeing any relevant completion.
Board and each of its committees.
actions for the year ahead.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 55 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance report continued Further details on the financial performance, financial Director re-election position and cash flows of the Group are discussed in the The Code requires all Directors to retire and stand for Business and financial review on page 16. re-election at each Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company complies with the Code requirement in this Note 21 on page 125 of the consolidated financial respect.
statements provides details of the Groups debt maturity profile, capital management policy, hedging activities and The Board has a broad range of skills and experience and financial instruments and its exposures to interest rate and works together effectively as evidenced throughout this foreign currency risks.
The Board, following its evaluation process, also considers that the performance of The Group is cash generative, as evidenced by its cash all the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates flow performance, with free cash flow representing 69.7% commitment to their role and therefore recommends their of profit after tax for the year ended 31 March 2015. re-election.
Management reviews its actual and forecast cash flows each month to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to Further details of each Director standing for election and meet the Groups requirements.
re-election are provided on pages 44 to 46 and details of their attendance at Board and committee meetings are given At 31 March 2015, the Groups net debt was 152.6 million on page 54 of this report.
with total committed debt and loan facilities of 263.4 million and undrawn committed facilities of 105.3 million.
Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups The Groups main sources of finance are a syndicated system of internal control, which has been designed and multi-currency facility from eight banks totalling 172 million implemented to meet the particular requirements of the into three tranches of US$75 million, 85 million and 50 Group and the risks to which it is exposed.
The Group has an million maturing in August 2019, and US$150 million of established and ongoing process of risk management and Private Placement PP notes, split US$65 million maturing internal control, which has continued throughout the year June 2015 and US$85 million maturing June 2017.
With the under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual repayment of the US$65 million PP notes in June 2015, the Report and Accounts.
Group has agreed to issue US$100 million of fixed rate five year PP notes with completion dates in June 2015, subject In accordance with the requirements of the Code and the to satisfaction of customary closing conditions.
These notes recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal will be due for repayment in June 2020. control, the Audit Committee has regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and Compliance with the Groups banking covenants is risk management and reported the results to the Board.
monitored monthly and sensitivity analyses are periodically These reviews covered material controls, including financial, applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants and operational and compliance controls and risk management net debt.
At 31 March 2015 there was significant headroom systems.
Further details of this process are given in the between the Groups financial position and its banking Audit Committee report on page 58 and the Strategic Report covenants: it is expected that such covenants will continue on page 26. to be complied with for the foreseeable future.
The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable The Group has sufficient financial resources, a large and but not absolute assurance against material misstatement geographically spread customer base and strong supplier or loss.
Therefore, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Going concern The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have In its review of the financial statements for the year ended a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 31 March 2015, the Audit Committee also considered resources to continue in operational existence for the analysis to support the going concern judgement.
For this reason the Directors believe that The Groups activities, strategy and performance are it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis discussed in the Chairmans introduction on page 04, Our in preparing the Groups accounts.
strategy on page 10 and the Business and financial review on page 16. www.
com Stock Code: ECM 56 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance The Directors confirm that this statement has been prepared The Group Finance Director regularly reports to the in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Board on investor relations, including reports compiled Guidance of UK Companies 2009, published by the Financial by the Companys brokers and containing feedback from Reporting Council in October 2009. institutional shareholders.
This ensures that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages two-way communication with Investor relations activity during the year included: both institutional and private investors.
The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive Face-to-face meetings and telephone briefings for a copy.
It is also available on the Companys website, analysts and investors in the UK, US and Europe, www.
com, which additionally contains covering the vast majority of shareholdings up-to-date information on the Groups activities and Face-to-face presentation of the full-year results and published financial results and presentations.
audio webcast of the half-year results The Board ensures that regular and useful dialogue is Recorded webcasts and presentations are available maintained with shareholders and the Annual General on the corporate website: video interviews with Meeting is used as an additional opportunity for the the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Chairman and other Board members to meet with Director are also available on the corporate website shareholders and investors and give them the opportunity Investor roadshows held in the UK, US and Europe to ask questions.
Final voting results are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys Investor site visits to distribution centres in the UK website following the meeting.
Participation in broker conferences across the world Executive Directors have frequent discussions with Launch of a responsive version of the corporate institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the website automatically adapts to the screen size of Groups performance, which include meetings following the viewing device and updated for iPad and iPhone the announcements of the annual and interim results.
apps At these meetings the Executive Directors meet with Annual General Meeting where each member of the major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy Board is available to answer questions and governance.
During the year, the Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee had face-to-face Several meetings between the Chairman and meetings and calls with shareholders, and the SID and shareholders about management succession Non-Executive Directors were available for discussions if required.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 57 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
