Corporate Governance Nomination Committee report considerable international experience will also help broaden the diversity amongst the Board members.
The Committee meets as required and has responsibility for the following matters: Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure it has an appropriate balance of skills, expertise, knowledge and including independence for the Board Reviewing succession plans for the Board, taking into account the future challenges facing the Group Ensuring that the procedure for appointing Directors is rigorous, transparent and objective, having regard for diversity Dear fellow shareholder As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Making recommendations to the Board I would like to present our report detailing on suitable candidates for appointments the role and responsibilities of the to the Board, ensuring that new Directors Committee and its activities during the year.
undergo an appropriate induction relevant to the Group This has been a very important year for both the Board and the Nomination Committee Specific objectives during who had an integral role in ensuring that the year the succession planning was robust in a As explained above, the Committee has period of significant change.
Our main focus focused on succession planning, including this year has been in transitioning from emergency and interim, for both Executive our long-serving Group Chief Executive, and Non-Executive Directors, taking into Ian Mason, to his successor.
This needed account its strategic role and the needs of careful thought about the right skills, the Board over the long-term.
experience and personal qualities required in his replacement in order to deliver a Specific objectives for the significantly better financial performance for coming year the Company.
The Committee has helped support the We are very pleased with the appointment business through a significant period of of Lindsley Ruth who has demonstrated a change this year and the new appointments strong track record of delivering growth and will now need time and support to establish financial performance in the international themselves fully.
Our focus on being clear Following this years Board evaluation the what qualities and experience we were Committee will continue to monitor the looking for enabled us to move fast, ensure long-term succession plans for both the there was no gap between Ian leaving and Executive and Non-Executive Directors Lindsley starting, and recruit someone who as well as consider the strength of the has been able to start making a difference succession plans below Board level to straight away.
ensure we have the right capability to drive This year we also decided to strengthen the the long-term growth of the business.
Boards eCommerce experience and skills.
The appointment of Bertrand Bodson with Peter Johnson his global digital experience will further Chairman of the Nomination Committee support the Groups medium-term target 21 May 2015 of transacting 70% of our business online.
The addition of a non-UK national with Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 65 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Nomination Committee report continued Details of the Companys policy on Executive Directors Committee members service contracts and terms of appointment for Peter Johnson Chairman Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Directors Adrian Auer up to 30 June 2014 Remuneration Report on pages 74 and 77 respectively.
Karen Guerra The Board takes into account the need for it to refresh Paul Hollingworth its membership progressively over time.
Non-Executive John Pattullo Directors are normally expected to serve for six years.
They Rupert Soames may be invited to serve longer, but additional service beyond six years is subject to rigorous review, and service beyond Details of the skills and experience of the Committee nine years is unlikely.
members are given in their biographies on pages 44 to 46.
The terms of appointment for the Board members are Members and their attendance at meetings during the year available for inspection at the Companys registered office are set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 54. and at our AGM.
During the period under review the Committee met six Succession planning times and I provide updates to the Board on the proceedings Succession planning, both at Executive and Non-Executive of each meeting.
level, remains a key focus for the Board.
The Global HR Appointment of Directors Director gave presentations to the Board during the year on organisational capability and succession planning Where a new Director is to be appointed, a candidate profile for key senior management roles.
On recommendation is developed based on a review of future business issues from the Committee, the Board agreed details of the key against the experience and skills of existing Board members.
competencies required to enhance the composition of This is used to brief external recruitment consultants the Board and those competencies have been used in the appointed by the Committee to undertake the selection search for new Directors.
Initial meetings are held by a combination of the Company Chairman, the Company Secretary and another Diversity Board Director with prospective candidates and a shortlist is selected to meet other Board members.
The Committee The Committee has a Policy Statement which emphasises then meets and decides which candidate, if any, will be its adherence to the Group Diversity Policy in considering recommended to join the Board.
succession planning and recruitment at Board level, and is mindful of the policy when instructing any recruitment For our current recruitment activities we appointed Russell consultants or other advisors it appoints.
The Committee Reynolds Associates and The Zygos Partnership to assist states that it is in the best interests of the Company us.
They have no other connection to the Company and are to ensure balance and diversity at Board level, and will therefore fully independent.
encourage recruitment consultants to widen search parameters so that a diverse range of candidates may be Any appointments to the Board receive an induction in considered, where appropriate.
The Committee has actively respect of their directorship.
This will typically include sought to increase both gender and national diversity whilst meetings with senior management, sales visits to also recognising the importance of inherent diversity of customers, presentations from key business areas, and experience and approach.
tours of our UK warehouses, as well as technical training on legal and governance issues and any other relevant The current recruitment activities have resulted in bringing documentation.
additional international composition and experience to the Board with the appointment of Lindsley Ruth American and Terms of appointment Bertrand Bodson Belgian.
Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but instead have a letter of appointment which sets out expected time commitments.
Such time commitments can involve peaks of activity at particular times.
