Audit Committee report Director, have worked together with the Group Finance team to embed the PwC audit approach in order to achieve a high quality audit for this financial year.
We would also like to thank KPMG for their professionalism during the transition.
As a result of the external Board evaluation carried out during the last financial year we continue to review the processes for monitoring the Group performance against strategic targets and milestones.
Internal control has continued to be a priority for the Committee, and the Group as a whole.
This years Board Committee evaluation particularly noted the Board Committees confidence in the effectiveness of the Internal Audit team.
Dear fellow shareholder Specific objectives for the As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I coming year would like to present our report detailing the In addition to maintaining a sound system role and responsibilities of the Committee of internal control, the Committee has and its activities during the year.
agreed on a number of specific objectives for the coming year.
With the global roll-out The Committee aims to protect the interests of a SAP-based system, the Group is able of shareholders by: to benefit from placing greater reliance on Assisting the Board in ensuring the standardised automated controls.
As a result integrity of the financial and corporate we will focus on ensuring that appropriate reporting and auditing processes processes are in place for the review and utilisation of automated controls, including IT Ensuring effective internal control and risk user access rights.
We will continue to focus management systems are in place on cyber risk.
Assisting the Board to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment Noting the changes to the UK Corporate of the Group position and prospects in Governance Code and associated guidance the Annual Report and Accounts relating to the viability statement and corporate risk management respectively, the Approving the remit of the Internal Audit Committee is considering the implications function and reviewing its effectiveness for the business.
and findings Ensuring that an appropriate relationship We will also continue to move forward with is maintained between the Group and its integrated reporting, with the aim to provide Auditor including the recommendation to our shareholders with a good understanding approve the Auditors appointment and fees of the business and how we operate.
Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of On behalf of the Committee, I would like to the external audit process thank everyone for their hard work over the Reviewing whistleblowing, anti-bribery year, including PwC as our Auditor, and the and fraud procedures Internal Audit and Group Finance teams.
Specific objectives achieved Paul Hollingworth during the year Chairman of the Audit Committee During the year, one of our main objectives 21 May 2015 was to ensure the orderly transition from KPMG to  PwC, our new Auditor.
The Committee, including myself, along with the Group Finance www.
com Stock Code: ECM 58 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance Main activities of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31 March 2015 May July November February Draft Preliminary Interim Management Draft 2015 Half-year Interim Management Statement and Annual Statement financial report Statement Report and Accounts Auditors highlights Accounting Standards, Group Finance memorandum issues and year-end procedures, reporting Going Concern review disclosures and Accounting update Group Finance management procedures, Stock provisions representation letter disclosures and assumptions and Going Concern review management historical data Fair, balanced and representation letter Review of current understandable criteria Impacts of changes accounting treatments Significant areas of in accounting on the including vendor accounting estimates financial results.
rebates judgements Auditors highlights memorandum Business continuity Risk and Control Meeting with Head Internal Audit plan for update review of Internal Audit 2016 without executive Internal Audit report Review of Internal Internal Audit report management including Fraud report Audit Performance including Fraud report without Internal Audit Internal Audit report including Fraud report Internal Audit report including Fraud report Audit transition Review of Auditors Auditor fees Review of IT controls planning Audit Strategy and environment Review of non-audit Review of audit fees Review of non-audit fees Review of non-audit fees fees Review of Non-audit fees as Audit Committee Audit Committee whistleblowing a policy including timetable evaluation procedures update on EU Review of legislation and policy Meeting with the whistleblowing approval External Auditor procedures without executive management Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 59 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Risk & internal External Compliance Review of financial statements control Auditor Audit Committee report continued The Board is satisfied that the Chairman Meetings are scheduled in accordance with Committee members of the Committee has the current the financial and reporting cycles of the Paul Hollingworth Chairman and relevant financial and accounting Company and generally take place prior to Adrian Auer up to 30 June 2014 experience required by the provisions of Board meetings to ensure effectiveness of the Karen Guerra the Code and that the other members collaboration with the Board.
John Pattullo of the Committee have a sufficiently Rupert Soames Members and their attendance at meetings wide range of business experience during the year are set out in the Corporate and expertise such that the Committee Other regular attendees Governance report on page 50. can effectively fulfil its responsibilities.
Company Chairman Details of the skills and experience of The Committee has independent access to Group Chief Executive the Committee members are given in the Internal Audit team and to the Auditor.
Group Finance Director their biographies on pages 44 to 46.
The Head of Internal Audit and the Auditor Company Secretary have direct access to the Chairman of the Attendance of others is at the invitation Group Financial Controller Committee outside formal Committee of the Committee Chairman only and Head of Internal Audit meetings.
does not restrict the Committees Group Risk Manager independent decision-making.
Minutes of each Committee meeting are Auditor provided to Board members.
Fair, balanced and understandable Activities during the year In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested Financial reporting parties, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced and The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial understandable assessment of the Groups position and reporting is to review, with both management and the Auditor, prospects, providing necessary information for shareholders the annual and half-year financial reports.
The Committee to assess the Groups business model, strategy and focuses on, amongst other matters: performance.
For the year ended 31 March 2014 the Group The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and introduced a new process for reviewing the Annual Report practices and Accounts to ensure that they were fair, balanced and understandable.
The process was used again this year.
It The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with included: financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements A thorough understanding of the regulatory requirements for the Annual Report and Accounts Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or there has been discussion with the Auditor A draft copy provided to the Committee early in the Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a drafting process to assess the broad direction and key whole, is fair, balanced and understandable messages, with a further draft provided prior to sign-off of the Annual Report and Accounts As part of the annual and half-year financial reports approval A cascaded sign-off across the Group to determine the process, the Committee met with the External Auditor.
accuracy and consistency of the data and language During this exercise the Committee considered the key A detailed review by all appropriate parties including the audit risks identified as being significant to the accounts for external advisers the year ended 31 March 2015 and the most appropriate treatment and disclosures of any new or judgemental A checklist of all the elements of the process was matters identified during the audit and half-year review, as completed to document the process and presented to well as any recommendations or observations made by the the Committee for review to provide assurance that the Auditor.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the appropriate procedures had been undertaken.
Committee in relation to the key financial matters for the year under review and how these were addressed are set The Committee has reviewed the Groups Annual Report and out on page 61.
Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 and has advised the Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Accounts To support its review, regular reports are also received from taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
provides the information necessary to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Details of the Groups KPIs are shown on page 24 of the Strategic Report.
com Stock Code: ECM 60 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Membership and meetings Corporate Governance Details on accounting policies and areas of judgement can Significant accounting issues be found in the notes to the accounts on pages 102 to 138. and areas of judgement The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement policies and practices adopted by the Group and any considered by the Committee during the year, and how significant areas of judgement that may materially impact these were addressed, are set out below.
Further details reported results as well as the clarity of disclosures, in each of these areas are detailed in the summary of key compliance with financial reporting standards and the estimates and judgements in Note 1 on page 102. relevant requirements around financial and governance reporting.
Significant accounting issues and areas How the Committee addressed of judgement these matters Inventory valuation: Inventory represents a The Group estimates the net realisable value of inventory in order to material proportion of the Groups net assets.
determine the value of any provision required and key judgements At 31 March 2015, the Group had 285.1 million relate to the duration of product life cycles, amount of anticipated 2014: 258.8 million of inventory on the sales over this life cycle and the value recoverable from any excess balance sheet.
An update of these assumptions, based on recent experience, was presented to the Committee for review.
Pension valuation: The Group has material Small changes to the assumptions used to value the UK retirement defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, benefit obligation can have a significant impact on the financial Ireland and Germany.
At 31 March 2015, the position and results of the Group.
The Committee reviews the total deficit in relation to these Defined Benefit assumptions put forward by the actuaries and the Group Pension pension schemes was 56.3 million 2014: Manager.
Goodwill: There is 176.5 million of goodwill The value of goodwill is reviewed regularly for impairment using a on the balance sheet at 31 March 2015 2014: value in use model using cash flow and discount rates as set out 156.8 million, which principally relates to the in Note 12 on page 119.
The Committee reviews these impairment acquisition of Allied Inc. in July 1999. tests every year, confirming that adequate headroom is in place and no impairment provision is required.
Taxation: The Groups taxation provision requires Last year the Board reviewed and endorsed the Groups tax strategy.
accounting estimates regarding tax liabilities The Committee reviews the effective tax rate and the balance sheet accruing across our multiple geographies and provision at the half-year and the full-year, and discusses the position the recoverability of losses.
with senior management as well as the Auditor.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups accounting As a result we will now recognise more income earlier in treatment of vendor rebates this year, and as a result has the year and will prepare our half-year results on this basis disclosed an updated accounting policy in the Annual Report going forward, restating comparative periods as required.
This takes into account recent There is no material impact on our full-year results.
Due to Financial Reporting Council FRC guidance and aims to the amounts and timings of the receipts, the Committee provide our shareholders with clear and relevant information believes that there are no material accounting areas of to assess the impact of these rebates on the Groups judgement required relating to this item.
In its review of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 the Committee also considered analysis to support the Companys going concern statement.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 61 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Audit Committee report continued The Group has significant foreign exchange transactions and Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include uses foreign exchange hedges to minimise profit and loss weekly, monthly and annual reporting cycles.
An annual volatility and allow management time to respond to changes budget is set across the Group and approved by the GEC in foreign exchange rates.
During the year the Group has and the Board.
This is then updated through quarterly updated its internal documentation and revised its internal reforecasts, and tracked through monthly reporting of actual procedures to ensure a greater consistency across the against both budget, forecast and prior year.
are reviewed by both the GEC and the Board.
In each market local leadership teams review variances and key Internal control and risk management performance indicators.
These are then reviewed at regional The Boards responsibilities for internal control are set out in and global levels by cross-functional teams, and by global the Corporate Governance report on page 56. functional leadership teams.
Specific reporting systems cover treasury operations, major investment projects and The Committee receives quarterly reports from the Head of legal and insurance activities, which are reviewed by the Internal Audit on the performance of the system of internal Board and its committees on a regular basis.
control, and on its effectiveness in managing principal risks and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
Internal audit The Committee annually reviews and approves the scope The Committee annually reviews the Groups risk and resourcing of the internal audit programme with the management process with the outcome of the review being Groups internal auditors.
The scope is decided upon by reported to the Board and any areas identified for further reference to the perceived geographic, functional and consideration are discussed at subsequent meetings.
operating risks around the business.
These risks are This, together with the provision of regular updates to identified from previous audit experience, input from the the Board on the principal risks, allows the Board to make senior management team and other external sources.
the assessment on the systems of internal control and the residual risk for the purposes of making its public The Committee reviews: statement.
Further information regarding principal risks and uncertainties to the business is given on page 26 of the The level and skills of resources allocated to the Internal Strategic Report.
Audit function to conduct this programme of work The summary of the results of each audit and the Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been resolution of any control issues identified identified through the monitoring processes outlined above, plans for strengthening them are put in place and action The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function plans regularly monitored until complete.
During the period The Head of Internal Audit has regular contact with the under review there were no control failings or weaknesses Chairman of the Committee, in the form of telephone calls that resulted in unforeseen material losses.
These discussions are around The Boards report on the systems of internal control audit planning and matters noted during internal audit and their effectiveness, together with the going concern assignments.
The Company Chairman and other members statement, can be found in the Corporate Governance report of the Committee are also available if required.
On an annual on page 50. basis the Committee meets with the Head of Internal Audit without the presence of the executive management.
Internal financial controls Auditor Internal financial controls are the systems employed by the Group to support the Directors in discharging their The Committee and the Board put great emphasis on the responsibilities for financial matters.
Those responsibilities objectivity of the Groups Auditor, PwC, in their reporting are noted on page 90. to shareholders.
To ensure full and open communication, the Group Audit Partner from PwC and the Group Audit The main financial control elements are described below.
Engagement Director from KPMG up to May 2014 were present at all of the Committee meetings.
Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and its committees, with delegation of operating responsibility The performance and effectiveness of the Auditor through the Board committees to management in all is reviewed annually by the Committee, and covers locations.
Group Finance and Group Treasury manuals are qualification, expertise, resources and appointment as well in place to outline the accounting policies and controls as assurance that there are no issues which could adversely necessary in identified areas of financial risk.
affect the Auditors independence and objectivity taking into www.
com Stock Code: ECM 62 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance account the relevant standards.
As part of risk evaluation The Group has a policy on employment of former employees planning the Committee considers the risk of its current of the Auditor.
This requires that any such employment is Auditor withdrawing from the market.
considered on a case-by-case basis and takes into account the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards on such Historically, feedback is collated from senior management appointments.
Any appointment requires approval by around the Group, which is given to the Auditor to help a combination of the Group Finance Director, the Audit them improve their processes.
Going forward this process Committee and the Board, depending on the seniority of the will form part of PwCs own system of quality control.
Committee also met with the Auditor without executive management being present, to discuss the adequacy of External audit tender controls and any significant areas where management Last year we carried out an external audit tender process judgement has been applied.
and PwC were appointed as our new Auditor at last years AGM.
This is in accordance with the FRC Guidance on Audit The Auditors engagement letter and the scope of the Committees and the Code, both published in September years annual audit cycle was discussed in advance by the 2012, which stipulated that FTSE 350 companies should put Committee.
Following discussions between local finance their external audit services contract out to tender at least teams and the local PwC offices and a review by Group once every ten years.
There are no contractual obligations management, audit and non-audit fees are reviewed by the that restrict the Committees choice of external auditors.
Committee and are then recommended to the Board for approval.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are given in The Company considers the annual appointment of the Note 4 on page 107.
Auditor by the shareholders at the AGM to be a fundamental safeguard.
A formal statement of independence from the Auditor is received each year.
The Group will not engage the Auditor to undertake any work that could threaten their independence.
The Company policy with regard to non-audit assignments is detailed below.
Non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditor The Group has a policy to ensure that the provision of Before commissioning non-audit services, the such services does not impair the Auditors independence Committee or the Group Finance Director, as or objectivity.
In determining the policy, the Committee appropriate, must ensure that the Auditor is satisfied has taken into account possible threats to Auditor that there are no issues as regards independence and independence and objectivity.
The Group Finance Director has authority to Policy on non-audit services: commission the Auditor to undertake non-audit work where there is a specific project with a cost that is When considering the use of the Auditor to undertake not expected to exceed 50,000.
This work has to be non-audit work, the Group Finance Director should reported to the Committee at its next meeting.
If the give consideration to the provisions of the FRC cost is expected to exceed 50,000, the agreement Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the of the Committee is required before the work is preservation of independence and objectivity.
In either case, other potential providers The Auditor must certify that they are acting must be adequately considered.
The total non-audit fees for any financial year should In providing a non-audit service, the Auditor should not exceed 70% of the average of the external audit not: fee over the last three years.
In practice the non-audit audit their own work fees are normally significantly below this level.
make management decisions for the Group The Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the Auditor or other providers of accountancy services create a mutuality of interest anywhere in the Group where fees are likely to exceed find themselves in the role of advocate for the 10,000.
Group Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 63 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Audit Committee report continued Committee evaluation The activities of the Committee were reviewed as part of the internal Board evaluation process performed during the year under review.
Details of the evaluation process can be found in the Corporate Governance report on page 55.
Fraud The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and detection of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must be reported to the Company Secretary within 48 hours and investigated by operational management or Internal Audit, as appropriate.
The outcome of any investigation is reported to the Company Secretary.
A register of all suspected fraudulent activity and the outcome of any investigation is kept, which is circulated to the Committee on a regular basis.
During the year in question, very few frauds were reported, none of which were of a material nature.
Anti-bribery An anti-bribery policy applies throughout the global business, with an assessment made as to which parts of the business present greater risk.
This policy is implemented by means of a global compliance programme which focuses on areas of risk identified.
All managers across the Group are required to sign and accept the policy on an annual basis, and managers and all staff in risk areas have access to an online training module.
A gift and hospitality register is operated to ensure transparency.
Contracts with relevant third-party companies also contain anti-bribery provisions.
Whistleblowing In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters and ensuring that these concerns are investigated and escalated as appropriate.
An external third party operates the reporting tools to ensure anonymity where required.
Whistleblowing is referred to as Speak Up internally and is available to all employees in the Group.
The availability of the scheme is advertised to all employees and was refreshed this year with an internal campaign to heighten awareness.
The Committee receives aggregated reports on matters raised through these services and monitors their resolution throughout the Group.
