58 Nomination Committee Report In addition, the Committee takes care to ensure that there Dear Shareholders, is a continuous pipeline of high-performing executive The Nomination Committee is responsible for monitoring talent beneath Board level who are nourished.
In this the performance, appropriateness and future succession sense the Nomination Committee provides a broader of the Companys executive and Board talent.
Following human resources planning role and the Chairman of the planned executive and non-executive retirements and Committee continues a mentoring role see page 48 with successful replacements to the Board, we are now in a the senior manager responsible for human resources.
The position of having both the appropriate mix of skills and effectiveness of the Committee was considered as part of experience, as well as future stability, to monitor the the external Board evaluation process.
execution of the Companys ambitious five year strategy.
The Committees main focus in 2015 was therefore What the Committee did in 2015 completing the addition of Marisa Cassoni as a nonThe main focus of the Committees work in 2015 included: executive director to the Board as well as planning and completing, with the support of an independent third supporting management in identifying experienced and party executive search firm, the search for a nonhigh quality new talent for the senior management team.
executive director with extensive financial experience Continuing to ensure the Company has the right senior in line with succession planning strategy culminating talent in place to execute the Company strategy will in the appointment of Marisa Cassoni on 1 April remain a priority of the Committee for the coming year.
Marisa is a chartered accountant and finance Robert Walker professional with 40 years experience and is currently Chairman, Nomination Committee a panel member of the Competition and Markets Authority and thus ensuring that there is a clear succession plan as regards financial reporting.
In this search process, the Committee paid due attention to Composition gender diversity: In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, continuing to review the senior management structure the Committee was composed of all of the non-executive and talent below Board level and senior appointments directors, being Robert Walker, David Maloney, Peter to the business as part of accommodating the Baguley, Adam Fowle and Marisa Cassoni from date of requirements of the new strategy and organisation appointment.
structure to deliver that with a focus on people Roles and responsibilities development and the attraction, retention and management of talent in general: and The key roles and responsibilities of the Committee are: reviewing the Committees terms of reference, and identify and nominate for Board approval, candidates conducting the annual review of the Committees to fill Board vacancies having regard to, amongst other performance.
things, the benefits of diversity including gender, as and when they arise: Diversity We pursue diversity, including gender diversity, throughout act proactively, recognising it is important to plan Board the business, and the Board endorses the aspirations succession well in advance and for all scenarios: of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills ensure that the Companys Board and executive and Lord Davis of Abersochs agenda for more Women leadership skills are fully aligned to the Companys longon Boards.
While we are not committing to any specific term strategy: targets for the number of women on the Board we continue to consider and make appointments based on succession planning for directors and other senior merit with the overriding objective of appointing the best executives taking into account the challenges and candidate.
As part of our early non-executive succession opportunities facing the Company: and planning, we focused our search on suitably qualified ensure any appointees have sufficient time to undertake and experienced women who may be available for a their role.
future appointment, but who would also be eligible to be appointed on merit.
We use executive search firms who In planning the appointments, the Committee prepares a have signed up to the voluntary code of conduct setting full description of the role, skills and capabilities required: out the seven key principles of best practice to abide by appoints external search firms, each time reviewing throughout the recruitment process and we continue to available options, and ensuring that the firm selected has follow a policy of appointing talented people at every level signed up to the relevant industry codes for example, on to deliver high performance.
In addition, 43% of the total diversity and has no connection with the Company: and workforce in the Company are female, including 6 out of finally, engages from time-to-time with the Groups major 17 senior managers.
shareholders on future skills requirements and ideas for potential candidates.
R M Walker Chairman, Nomination Committee 16 November 2015 Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
