Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 51 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Audit Committee Report The Committee therefore ensures that the identification Dear Shareholders, and management of all key risks is embedded across I am pleased to present the report on the activities of the all areas of the business, with regular assessments to Audit Committee for the year ended 30 September 2015, highlight the risks and to monitor the progress and status and to be able to confirm, on behalf of the Board, that of the controls in place to mitigate that risk.
This has also the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and been embedded into the annual strategic review process understandable.
to ensure that throughout the implementation of our new In September 2014, the UK Financial Reporting Council five year strategy, the risks associated with the changes FRC updated the Corporate Governance Code the Code, are appropriately considered and controlled.
We have applying to all companies with shares listed on the London ensured that this process has already commenced and all Stock Exchange for financial reporting periods beginning workstreams relating to the new strategic approach are on or after 1 October 2014.
Therefore Enterprise has appropriately considering the risk relating to those areas.
applied the Code during the year ending 30 September Accordingly, going forward we will hold an additional 2015.
Committee meeting to coincide with, and consider the output from, the annual strategic review process.
The principle behind this updated guidance is to ensure that risk management and internal control are embedded In line with prior years, the members of the Committee in the business process by which a company pursues its have spent time with the operations and property teams objectives.
in the field and have also participated in key discussions on areas of financial judgement, such as the valuation While the Committee believes that the Groups existing meetings between the external auditor and professional risk assessment process was sufficiently robust to valuers, so that we can better understand the risks and comply with these latest guidelines, we have undertaken challenges facing the business.
an additional exercise during the year which reviewed and improved our risk management processes.
The We are satisfied that the business has maintained robust exercise was undertaken with the assistance of external risk management and internal controls and that the internal advisers, who were able to advise on current best practice audit programme is appropriately formulated to confirm on the format of documentation and reporting on risk that those controls are effective.
risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 32 to 38 and have been reviewed in detail by the Committee to ensure As a result of this review we have enhanced the detailed that we are comfortable that the business has addressed documentation of the key risks to the business and them appropriately within its on-going operating model sources of assurance on the effectiveness of the internal and priorities.
controls related to those risks, creating a Key Risks Register and Assurance Framework.
This document has David Maloney enabled us to focus on those areas of risk and controls Chairman, Audit Committee that need to be considered on an on-going basis across the business: those principal risks and uncertainties that are of sufficient significance to be disclosed in the Annual Report: and also those material residual risks, that could still pose a significant threat to the viability of the business as a whole, so need to be fully considered as part of the viability statement process.
As a direct consequence, we established a formal management risk committee to consider risks throughout the year going forward, have undertaken more detailed challenging of the risks and associated assurance sources and have also ensured that the Internal Audit focus can be directed to the most critical controls.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 51 07 12 2015 17:24:39 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 52 Audit Committee Report remuneration, terms of engagement and objectivity of Composition the external auditor, including its appropriateness to The Committee was chaired during the year by myself, as undertake non-audit work: the Board considers that, by virtue of my former executive the internal audit programme is sufficiently robust to and current non-executive director positions full details of confirm the effectiveness of the Groups controls.
This is which are set out on page 44, I have current and relevant achieved by reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness financial experience.
The other non-executive directors, of the Groups internal control and risk management being Peter Baguley, Adam Fowle and Marisa Cassoni systems, including the internal audit function, reviewing from her appointment on 1 April 2015, form the rest of the Groups systems and controls for preventing and the Committee and the Board considers that the entire detecting fraud and bribery and reviewing the adequacy Committee is independent.
and effectiveness of the Groups arrangements for Roles and responsibilities its employees to raise concerns about possible The Committee has been assigned with advising the Board wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
As in respect of its responsibility for ensuring the Annual part of the implementation of the new strategy, this Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, are fair, included reviewing the evolving focus of the Internal balanced and understandable and provides the information Audit programme, which now includes retail audit necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, resource focused on the controls in managed pubs: performance, business model and strategy.
the interim and year end results, preliminary announcements and the Annual Report and Accounts In addition, while the Board has ultimate responsibility are fair, balanced and understandable to the Board.
for maintaining a robust framework of internal controls This involves reviewing the documents to ensure that and risk management and for overseeing, reviewing the description of the business agrees with our own and ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups risk understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern management and internal control systems, it has us, appropriate weight has been given to the good delegated the monitoring and review of this framework to and bad news, the discussion of performance properly the Committee.
reflects the story of the relevant period and that there The Committee therefore met three times during the year is a clear and well-articulated link between all areas of to consider all relevant information to enable it to assess disclosure.
This included extra consideration this year of and confirm that: the new Group strategy, announced in May 2015: the interests of shareholders are protected in relation to the principal risks and uncertainties have been financial reporting and internal control by monitoring the appropriately identified and assessed, including integrity of the annual and interim financial statements, reviewing internal processes used to identify and monitoring any formal announcements relating to the monitor all key risks and associated controls.
The Companys financial performance and reviewing and Committee reviewed those key risks and the quality challenging as necessary the judgements and actions of of the assurance on the effectiveness of the controls management in relation to the financial statements: that mitigate those risks, allowing it to conclude on the principal risks for disclosure and what, if any, material there is a sufficiently robust and effective external residual risks remain so that they could be factored into audit.
Specifically, the Committee considers the the assessment of Going Concern and the Groups onindependence of the external auditor, the appointment going viability: and reappointment of the external auditor and all reports from the external auditor in respect of the all key control policies and procedures in the business auditors review of the interim results, the audit plan remain appropriate, including an annual review of the for the year and the results of the annual audit.
These effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing policy: and reports included the scope of the interim review and the Committee continues to operate appropriately for annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the auditor the circumstances of our business.
As part of this, we to address and conclude upon key estimates and other review our terms of reference, we ensure that there is key audit areas, the basis on which the auditor assesses sufficient expertise and resource in the Committees materiality, the terms of engagement for the auditor composition for us to fulfil our responsibilities and an on-going assessment of the impact of future effectively and we perform an annual review of the accounting developments on the Group.
To monitor its Committees performance.
independence, the Committee annually reviews the Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 52 07 12 2015 17:24:39 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 53 for the year ended 30 September 2015 The Committee reports to the Board on how we have Going concern and viability review discharged our responsibilities.
The full terms of reference The Group has to comply with a number of financial are available on the Companys website, or on request covenants that relate to the financing structure of the from the Company Secretary.
Group as set out in note 23 on pages 119 to 127 of the accounts.
Reaching a conclusion on the reliability of the Significant issues considered in relation budgets prepared by management is considered important to the financial statements to the Committee to ensure that covenants will not be During the year the Committee, management and the breached and the Group will remain a going concern.
external auditor considered and concluded on what The Committee therefore reviewed, challenged and the significant issues were in relation to the financial concluded upon the Groups going concern review statements and how these would be addressed.
including giving due consideration to the appropriateness Valuation of the estate of key judgements, assumptions and estimates underlying The Group has a policy of accounting for its licensed the budgets that underpin the review and a review of estate at fair value based on an annual revaluation exercise compliance with key financial covenants.
This also included performed by two independent valuation firms and an a comprehensive review of the key risk factors impacting internal team of RICS qualified chartered surveyors.
For the Group and the assessment of the internal controls this years exercise we decided to obtain a full external that mitigate this risk, together with reviewing how the valuation of the Unique estate.
This change means that risks have been considered in the assessment of going approximately 92% of the Groups estate, by value, is concern.
now being valued by external valuers, compared to 47% This process enabled the Committee, on behalf of the in prior years.
The selection of the new valuation firm, Board, to assess whether any material residual risks Colliers International, was reviewed and approved by the remained that could pose a significant threat to the Committee.
viability of the business as a whole.
The Committee also The value of property, plant and equipment is the assessed over what period such a viability review would largest number on the balance sheet and the resultant be appropriate.
The impact of those risks that could affect movements following the annual revaluation are also the future viability of the Group over the next five years significant.
The valuation of the pub estate, including was then reviewed and the resilience of the Group to assets held for sale, against the backdrop of continued the occurrence of these risks, in severe yet plausible difficult economic conditions is a key consideration.
As a result of this analysis, the Committee therefore focuses attention on understanding disclosures detailed in the Viability Statement, on page 38, and challenging the valuation, and the appropriate were recommended to, and approved by, the Board.
accounting approach and disclosures, by reviewing the Goodwill impairment review planned approach, the key assumptions, the valuation In conjunction with the assessment of going concern reports and other documentation analysing the outcome of and the Groups future viability, the Committee reviewed the process.
and approved the Groups impairment review in respect In addition, I again attended the meeting held between of its tangible and intangible fixed assets.
Following the the external auditor and each of the external independent strategic review in the year the Group now allocates professional valuers and the internal professional valuers.
its goodwill across the operating segments identified, The purpose of the meeting is for the external auditors requiring impairment to be tested by operating segment.
and myself, on behalf of the Committee, to understand Included in the key assumptions underlying the and challenge if appropriate any assumption or material impairment review was the discount rate utilised in such changes in valuation.
To assist the discussion, detailed calculations in relation to last year and those used by other analysis is prepared by both management and EY which companies in the industry see note 15 on pages 105 and explores the underlying basis of, and conclusions reached 106 of the accounts.
The Committee concluded it would in respect of, the annual valuation of the Groups pub not be appropriate to change the rate at the current time.
assets further details of which are set out in note 17 to the accounts on pages 107 to 115.
Any outliers in the valuation were also analysed in further detail.
indd 53 07 12 2015 17:24:39 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 54 Audit Committee Report In accordance with best practice and professional Deferred tax standards, external auditors are required to adhere to a The provisioning for deferred tax remains a complex rotation policy whereby the audit engagement partner area requiring the Group to reflect the interaction is rotated after five years.
The most recent audit partner between multiple elements of tax legislation and the rotation was in 2011 and the current audit partners five specific requirements of IFRS.
The application of these year term ends at the forthcoming AGM.
EY will therefore requirements to a pub estate comprising in excess of rotate their audit partner ahead of the 2016 audit and the 5,000 individual assets, introduces further risks which are Committee is satisfied that the new engagement partner addressed through the use of detailed tax models against has the experience and industry knowledge to be the lead information held on an asset by asset basis.
The Committee ensures that adequate resource is Independence and non-audit services dedicated to the on-going maintenance of these tax models, that the output of these models is subject to A key issue that could impair auditor independence, and robust and rigorous internal review and that, where the auditors objective opinion on the Groups financial necessary, management have validated the manner in statements, is the engagement of the external auditor for which tax legislation and or IFRS should be applied with the provision of non-audit services.
our external tax adviser and, where appropriate, the The Groups policy on engaging the external auditor for external auditor.
non-audit services is therefore designed to ensure that such engagements do not result in the creation of a Approach to appointing the external mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, auditor and how objectivity and that a transparent process and reporting structure is independence are safeguarded relative established to enable the Committee to monitor policy to non-audit services compliance and that unnecessary restrictions on the The Companys policy on the independence of auditors engagement of auditors for non-audit services are avoided is consistent with the ethical standards published by where the provision of advice is commercially sensible and the Audit Practices Board.
We also comply with the is more cost effective than other providers.
Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 relating to The policy specifies: audit tendering and the provision of non-audit services, as discussed further below.
services that are specifically not permitted this includes work relating to accounting records that Independence safeguards and the will ultimately be subject to external audit, valuation reappointment of the external auditor services, remuneration advice for key management The reappointment of EY as the Groups external auditor and the provision of strategic advisory or consultancy incumbent since the Company started trading in 1991 services: was reviewed during the year.
The audit was put out to a services that are permitted with prior approval of the market tender during 2012, with EY chosen to continue CFO this includes accounting advice and reviews of with the audit services and KPMG appointed for taxation accounting standards and advice, due diligence matters services.
As the Group will be required to tender the audit as required by debt prospectuses, assurance work in for the year ending 30 September 2021, in accordance respect of tax matters including tax compliance, routine with recent EU regulations, it is planned to initiate a tax planning and tax advisory services: and tender process ahead of time to allow for the audit to services that are permitted with prior approval of the be moved to another firm of auditors for that financial Committee this includes any new engagement for an year.
These plans will be kept under annual review and if individual service or specific project other than defined legislation changes, or there are any concerns as to EYs within the above two categories.
independence, the quality of their audit or the service levels, then the audit tender might be undertaken sooner.
indd 54 07 12 2015 17:24:39 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 55 for the year ended 30 September 2015 The CFO reports to the Committee annually outlining all In addition to the above, I, on behalf of the Committee, proposals considered during the year and the decisions met with the external auditor and with the Director of taken, any proposals which the Committee is or has been Internal Audit without the presence of management requested to approve and the current level of expenditure during the year and I have had regular contact with the for non-audit fees.
audit engagement partner during the year.
Robert Walker also had two private meetings with the audit engagement The total fees paid to the external auditor during the year partner during the year.
Of this amount, 12,000 related to non-audit services, being work Based on all of this information the Committee concluded associated with our financing activities.
This is work that the external audit process was operating effectively, that would normally only be performed by the external that EY remains sufficiently independent and that it auditor as it requires confirmations to third parties, such continued to prove effective in its role as external auditor.
as Trustees, as to the correct extraction of data from our The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board accounting records.
Full details are set out in note 17 to to propose to shareholders the reappointment of EY as the accounts on pages 107 to 115. auditor until the conclusion of the AGM in 2017.
Full details are set out in the Notice convening the AGM on pages 152 Independence and performance to 153. assessment by the Committee Role of internal audit The Committee has assessed the independence of the Internal audit is independent of business operations, external auditor and is satisfied that their independence undertaking an on-going programme to provide assurance is not impaired due to the fact that the audit engagement on the adequacy of internal control and risk management partner rotation policy has been complied with: the level processes across the Groups operations.
It is responsible and nature of the fees paid for non-audit services was of for reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness of internal a level that does not present any on-going threat to their controls and risk management systems to the Committee independence and a separate external firm is appointed for and, ultimately, the Board.
The Director of Internal Audit taxation advisory services.
attends Committee meetings to present the findings of The Committee has authority to take independent advice such reviews at regular intervals throughout the year and as it determines necessary in order to resolve issues on reports on internal audits performance against the agreed auditor independence.
No such advice was required during annual internal audit plan, such plan being agreed during the year and there are no contractual restrictions over the year by the Committee.
The Committee also reviewed the external auditors performance, taking into account input from management, consideration of responses to questions from the Committee and the audit findings reported to the Committee.
As part of the process, the Committee reviewed the auditors performance against criteria consistent with that adopted in the prior year.
indd 55 07 12 2015 17:24:39 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 56 Audit Committee Report an internal audit function which implements the annual Effective risk management and internal internal audit plan and provides independent assurance control to executive management, the Committee and the The system of internal controls is designed to manage Board on the effectiveness of internal controls and risk rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business management.
This includes evolving the internal audit objectives and can only provide reasonable and not plan to ensure that it focuses, where relevant, on the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
highest risk areas identified in the Key Risk Register and Operating policies and controls are in place, and have been Assurance Framework.
in place throughout the year under review, and cover a In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal wide range of issues including financial reporting, capital control the Committee has: expenditure, information technology, business continuity and management of employees.
Detailed policies ensure received six-monthly self-assurance statements the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting and completed by key senior managers confirming that the preparation of financial statements including the controls and risk management processes in their consolidation process.
The key elements of the Groups business units have operated satisfactorily.
These on-going processes for the provision of effective internal returns are reviewed in detail by the Director of control and risk management systems include: Internal Audit and challenged where appropriate by the management risk committee, which updates the risk established organisational structure with clearly defined register: lines of responsibility and levels of authority: received and reviewed the risk register, including documented operational and controls policies and detailed analysis of the key financial and accounting procedures: controls that provide assurance to mitigate the key regular Board meetings to consider matters reserved risks, and proposed principal risks and uncertainties for directors consideration: disclosures, which were then approved for use in the an annual Board corporate strategy review to assess Annual Report and Accounts: and the appropriateness of the current business strategy met with the Director of Internal Audit, without and any potential changes to the future Group strategy.
management being present to discuss their remit and In future years this process will also include an Audit any issues arising from internal audits carried out, Committee meeting to incorporate a formal review of reviewed all the internal audit reports and monitored material business risks and uncertainties facing the managements responsiveness to the findings and business.
This additional Committee meeting will be recommendations of those reports.
facilitated by third party risk consultants to ensure that In respect of Group financial reporting, the finance the Board can consider the latest best practice risk department is responsible for preparing the Group financial management advice and approaches: statements using a well-established consolidation process regular review by the Board of financial budgets, and ensuring that accounting policies are in accordance forecasts and covenants with performance reported to with IFRS.
All financial information published by the Group the Board monthly: is subject to approval by the Committee.
There have been regular management reporting, providing a balanced no changes in the Companys internal control over financial assessment of key risks and controls: reporting during the year under review that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the a detailed investment process for major projects, Companys control over financial reporting.
including capital investment coupled with a postinvestment appraisal analysis: the establishment of a formal management risk committee during the year, responsible for on-going maintenance of the risk register and evaluation of controls and assurances, reporting its findings back to the Committee.
The initial meeting of this management risk committee considered the year end reporting position, recommending the appropriate disclosures on the principal risks and uncertainties, and will meet quarterly in future years: and Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 56 07 12 2015 17:24:39 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 57 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Following advice from the Committee, the Board has Whistleblowing confirmed that it is satisfied that we have carried out a The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy, which is robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, reviewed annually, that encourages employees to report including those that threaten its business model, future any malpractice or illegal acts or omissions or matters of performance, solvency or liquidity.
As a result it has similar concern whether in the UK or elsewhere by other concluded that an effective system of internal controls employees or former employees, contractors, publicans, and risk management processes are in place which suppliers or advisers using internal mechanisms for enable the Company to identify, evaluate and manage key reporting.
The policy acts as a mechanism to report any risks and which accord with the FRCs Guidance on Risk ethical wrongdoing or malpractice or suspicion which may Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and amount to ethical wrongdoing or malpractice.
Examples Business Reporting 2014. of ethical wrongdoing or malpractice include bribery, corruption, fraud, dishonesty and illegal practices which While the Committee believes that the Groups risk may endanger employees or other parties.
There have management process was sufficiently robust from the been no material instances of whistleblowing during the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval year under review.
of the accounts, we have been reviewing and improving the processes and documentation during the year.
Further Accountability details of risk management frameworks and the principal The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and risks and uncertainties facing the business can be found understandable assessment of the Companys financial on pages 32 to 38. position and prospects.
The responsibilities of the directors Anti-bribery and corruption code of and external auditor are set out on pages 83 and 150.
As set out in the Directors Report, the directors consider the conduct Companys business is a going concern.
The Group is committed to conducting its business with the highest degree of integrity, including a zero tolerance D O Maloney approach towards all forms of bribery, corruption, fraud Chairman, Audit Committee and theft and procedures within the Company have been 16 November 2015 designed to minimise these risks.
The Group has in place an anti-bribery and corruption code of conduct which has been formally approved by the Board and extends to all of the Groups business dealings and transactions involving its directors, officers, employees or third parties including, but not limited to, agents, advisers, contractors, publicans or suppliers engaged in business with the Group.
Engaging in fraud, bribery or corruption is unlawful and any employee, director or officer found to have breached the code of conduct will be liable to disciplinary action which may result in dismissal or other serious sanctions.
Breaches of the code of conduct by third parties may result in immediate termination for breach of all contracts with the Group.
A copy of the code of conduct is available on the Companys website.
There have been no recorded instances of bribery or corruption during the period under review.
indd 57 07 12 2015 17:24:39 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
