46 Governance Report Dear Shareholders, Compliance with the UK Corporate Over the past two years, the Boards priority has Governance Code 2014 been to successfully execute the Chief Executive The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Code sets succession in February 2014, when Simon Townsend out guidance in the form of main principles and specific was appointed, and the addition of two non-executive provisions on how companies should be directed and directors, following planned retirements from the controlled to follow good governance practice.
This process was completed with the addition of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require listed to the Board of Marisa Cassoni in April this year.
We companies incorporated in the UK to disclose, in relation consider that the Board now has the appropriate to the Code, how they have applied those principles skills and experience to challenge and support the and whether they have complied with the provisions execution of the Companys five year strategy that was throughout the financial year.
The Company reviews its compliance with the Code It was also timely to commission an external Board regularly and considers that it has fully complied with evaluation this year, which concluded that the Board is the provisions of the Code that are applicable to it for the performing very effectively.
whole of the year ended 30 September 2015.
The Boards initiative of nominating individual nonThe Audit Committee Report on pages 51 to 57, the executive directors including the Chairman to Nomination Committee Report on page 58 and the mentor key executives below Board level, and their Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 82 are businesses, continues to be highly successful.
The also incorporated into this Report by reference.
For further external evaluation concluded that we were a Board details on the Companys compliance with the Code and that rolls up its sleeves and keeps up to speed the terms of reference for each of its Committees, see the on business issues and change.
We continued with Companys website www.
our programme of holding Board meetings on the Leadership road to give the Board an extra opportunity to meet with key suppliers and advisers: meetings were Role of the Board also conducted in the operating regions to engage The Board has a collective responsibility for the with publicans, to inspect investment schemes and effective oversight of the Group and its business and to consider commercial opportunities.
For the coming promote the long-term success of the Company for its year the Boards overwhelming priority is to monitor, shareholders.
Its role includes reviewing and approving challenge, and encourage the successful execution key policies and decisions of the Company, particularly of the Companys five year plan.
Each member of the in relation to Group strategy and operating plans, senior executive team will attend Board meetings to governance and compliance with laws and regulations, update on delivery of key parts of the strategic plan.
business development, major investments and disposals and, through its Committees, financial reporting and risk Robert Walker management.
Chairman The Board has established a schedule of matters reserved for Board decision.
This schedule details key aspects of the affairs of the Company which the Board does not delegate, including key strategic, operational and financial issues.
A copy of the schedule of matters reserved can be found on the Companys website.
The Board delegates to management the day-to-day operation of the business, subject to appropriate risk parameters.
Board meetings are scheduled to coincide with key events in the Companys financial calendar, including interim and final results and the AGM.
Other meetings during the year will review the Companys Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 46 07 12 2015 17:24:24 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 47 for the year ended 30 September 2015 strategy and budgets for the next financial year and the of the Chairman and clear divisions of accountability and Companys key risks as well as reviewing each of the main responsibility have been agreed by the Board, are set out operating functions financial, commercial, operational and in writing and are available on the Companys website.
Role of the Company Secretary Board Committees Loretta Togher is the Company Secretary.
The role of the Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, Company Secretary is to develop, implement and sustain the Board has delegated to its Audit, Nomination and good governance practices.
This includes supporting Remuneration Committees certain authorities.
The the Chairman and non-executive directors as necessary, terms of reference for each of the Audit, Nomination managing Board and Committee meetings, facilitating the and Remuneration Committees are published on the induction of new directors, ensuring appropriate directors Companys website.
Separate reports for each of these and officers insurance is in place and that the Group Committees are included in this Annual Report and is compliant with statutory and regulatory governance Accounts from page 51. requirements.
The written responsibilities of the Company Secretary have been agreed by the Board, are set out in Role of the Chairman writing and are available on the Companys website.
Robert Walker is the Chairman and is responsible for the Independence of directors leadership and effectiveness of the Board, taking into account the interests of stakeholders and promoting The Board has a strong independent element and at the the highest standards of governance.
A summary of the date of this report currently comprises, in addition to the Chairmans responsibilities has been agreed by the Board, Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive is set out in writing and is available on the Companys directors.
The Chairman and all of the non-executive website.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman met directors throughout the year are considered to be with the non-executive directors six times during the year, independent in character and judgement: they satisfied without the executive directors being present, to discuss the criteria in the Code on appointment and continue to in detail matters which they believed to be relevant for satisfy the criteria.
The non-executives have a wide range the purposes of the strategic business review, including of skills and experience: they constructively challenge key operational and financial issues, performance of the management: help develop the Companys strategy and CEO and overall feedback arising from the external board have satisfied themselves as to the integrity of the Groups performance evaluation process.
financial information, controls and risk management strategy.
Further information about how they have Role of the Senior Independent Director achieved this can be found in the Audit Committee Report SID on pages 51 to 57 and the Directors Remuneration Report David Maloney is the SID.
He is available to shareholders, on pages 59 to 82. provides a sounding board to the Chairman and All directors may take independent professional advice serves as an intermediary for the other directors if at the Companys expense.
There is a formal written necessary.
The SIDs role includes responsibility for the procedure, available on the Companys website, Chairmans appraisal and succession.
A summary of the concerning independent professional advice and setting responsibilities of the SID has been agreed by the Board, out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board.
is set out in writing and is available on the Companys website.
In compliance with the Code, the SID met with At the date of this report David Maloney has been on the other non-executive directors during the year in a the Board for over seven years and his reappointment forum that did not include the Chairman or the executive is subject to a rigorous review.
Peter Baguley and Adam directors.
Fowle have been on the board for three and two years respectively and their reappointment is also subject Role of the Chief Executive Officer CEO to rigorous review.
Marisa Cassoni was appointed to Simon Townsend is the CEO.
The CEO is responsible the Board on 1 April 2015 and is, therefore, subject for the preparation, evaluation and implementation of to reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board the Companys strategic goals and in leading the senior believes that David Maloney, Peter Baguley, Adam Fowle management team.
The role is distinct and separate to that and Marisa Cassoni continue to display all of the qualities of independence as set out in the Code.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 47 07 12 2015 17:24:24 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 48 Governance Report Effectiveness Meetings and attendance The Board held eight scheduled meetings in the year under review.
In addition, a strategic business review was held off site at which high level strategic issues, including future business direction and its financial and operational implications, were reviewed and debated.
The Board has an agreed approach for dealing with conflicts of interest in relation to matters which are scheduled for Board consideration, although no such conflicts arose during the year under review.
If directors are unable to attend meetings in person then they are consulted prior to the meeting and their views made known to the other directors and or they may attend the meeting or part thereof by telephone or other conference facility.
A monthly board pack is prepared at the end of each financial period which includes an update on key performance targets, trading performance against budget and includes detailed financial data and analysis including a review of applicable financial covenants.
Board papers are generally circulated seven days prior to meetings to ensure directors have sufficient time to review papers ahead of the meeting.
Attendance at scheduled meetings is set out below: Attendance at Board and Committee Scheduled meetings during year ended Board Nomination Remuneration 30 September 2015 meetings Audit i, v i Number of scheduled meetings held 8 3 2 4 Robert Walker 8 3 ii 2 4 Simon Townsend 8 3 ii 2 4 iii Info graphic option ?
Neil Smith 8 3 ii 2 1 iii David Maloney 8 3 2 4 Peter Baguley 8 3 2 4 Adam Fowle 8 3 2 4 Marisa Cassoni iv 4 2 2 i Additional meetings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees were held outside those scheduled meetings referred to above to deal with matters arising as required, and were attended by all members of the Committees.
ii Robert Walker, Simon Townsend and Neil Smith attended meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
iii Simon Townsend attended meetings of the Remuneration Committee, or part thereof, by invitation and Neil Smith attended when requested.
iv Marisa Cassoni was appointed as a director on 1 April 2015 and therefore did not attend any meetings held before that date.
v The executive directors have attended meetings of the Nomination Committee by invitation.
The training and development needs of directors are Training and development reviewed and assessed by the Chairman as part of the The Companys directors have a wide range of expertise annual Board performance evaluation process.
as well as significant experience in strategic, financial and operational matters.
All new directors receive a Business mentoring by non-executives personalised induction programme designed to develop As mentioned briefly in the introduction, the Board their knowledge and understanding of the Group, its continues with the allocation of operating sectors and culture and operations.
On her appointment, Marisa central functions to non-executive directors, including Cassoni undertook such an induction, which included the Chairman.
Effectively, putting the Board to work.
meetings with senior management across the Group and Each year non-executive directors are allocated an third party advisers such as the Companys stockbrokers operating sector and or central functions such as property, and legal advisers as well as visiting pubs and meeting commercial or HR.
The non-executive director is then publicans with regional management.
New directors also encouraged, on their own initiative, to organise a series of participate in the mentoring programme described below.
regular contacts, meetings and visits throughout the year All directors have access to management and to the with his her respective assignment.
We then rotate these advice of the Company Secretary, who regularly updates assignments every year.
the Board on material governance and compliance issues.
indd 48 07 12 2015 17:24:24 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 49 for the year ended 30 September 2015 This initiative continues to be highly successful: in effect The CEO is responsible for regularly reviewing other integrating the Board more closely with the business, its executive directors performance against objectives and field operations, new business and commercial activities.
the CEOs performance is assessed by the Chairman in consultation with the non-executive directors.
In addition, Board evaluation the Remuneration Committee regularly reviews executive The Company commissioned an external Board evaluation director performance in connection with their personal during the year which was conducted by Duncan Reed of performance objectives.
The Chairmans performance Condign Board Consulting.
This process was led by the is appraised by the SID in consultation with the nonChairman and Mr Reed.
Each director took part in oneexecutive directors, taking into account the views of the to-one meetings with Mr Reed which covered headings executive directors, and the non-executive directors circulated in advance and included: performance is reviewed by the Chairman.
As a result of these individual reviews, it is considered that the overall impression of the Board including its dynamics, performance of each director continues to be effective and culture, climate, cohesion and quality: that each director demonstrates sufficient commitment to organisation including agendas, meeting frequency, their role.
Consequently, the Chairman can confirm that formal and informal processes, strategy sessions, each director is suitable for re-election or reappointment at information and support materials: the forthcoming AGM.
roles and contributions of individual members: The Nomination Committee is responsible for proactively composition including size and balance, skill sets, reviewing and refreshing the Boards composition and independence, rotation, succession planning and talent further information about the roles and responsibilities of management: this Committee can be found on page 58. involvement and engagement including level of Election of directors knowledge, relationship and mentoring and induction: The directors comply with the requirements of the Code communications including with shareholders, investors and submit themselves for re-election every year, if and analysts: they wish to continue serving and are considered by the overall effectiveness, including fulfilment of duties, Board to be eligible.
Accordingly, the whole Board will be broader expectations and checks and balances: and proposed for re-election or, in the case of Marisa Cassoni, performance of the Audit, Nomination and reappointment at this years AGM.
Service agreements The one-to-one sessions were all conducted in confidence The service agreements of the executive directors and by Mr Reed, who then prepared a report for the whole copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive Board.
The results of the review including progress against directors are available for inspection during business the previous years recommended actions were delivered hours on any weekday excluding public holidays at the by Mr Reed, summarised by the Chairman and considered registered office of the Company and will be available for in detail by the whole Board.
This years review, the first inspection for fifteen minutes prior to, and during, the external evaluation commissioned by the Company, was AGM.
primarily to cover the requirements of the Code but also encompassed a forward looking, constructive and External appointments developmental exercise.
The evaluation found that the The executive directors may accept outside appointments prior years actions had been fully implemented: that provided that such appointments do not in any way performance of the Board and its Committees continued prejudice their ability to perform their duties as executive to be effective in dealing with both day-to-day and ondirectors of the Company.
None of the executive directors going strategic issues: that there was a strong desire to currently hold any such outside appointments.
work through issues effectively and pragmatically: that The role of non-executive director requires a time the Board and Committee structure ensured that the commitment in the order of 15 days per annum plus governance requirements of the business were met and additional time as necessary to properly discharge their the internal processes were efficient and effective.
There is no restriction on outside appointments provided that they do not prevent the director from discharging their responsibilities effectively.
indd 49 07 12 2015 17:24:24 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 50 Governance Report Following the announcement of results, an investor Accountability relations report is produced for the Board which The Board should present a fair, balanced and summarises feedback from shareholders and ensures understandable assessment of the Companys position the Board has a balanced view from our major investors.
and prospects, maintain sound risk management and This was particularly key this year when we announced internal control systems and manage an appropriate the outcome of the strategic review, enabling us to unlock relationship with the Companys auditor.
the embedded value in every one of our assets, using Further information about how these principles have been the most appropriate operating model for each asset applied is detailed in the Audit Committee Report on pages to secure the optimum level of income.
The strategy 51 to 57. evolves our business model, utilising consumer insight, to develop a plan for every pub in order to maximise value Remuneration for shareholders.
In addition, the Board receives a monthly Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, updated analysis of the shareholder register and material retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run movements in holdings.
the Company successfully, whilst avoiding paying more The Company ensures that any price-sensitive information than is necessary for this purpose, and there should be a is released to all shareholders at the same time in formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on accordance with regulatory requirements.
presentations are available to shareholders through the Further information about how these principles have been Companys website.
applied is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report Shareholders may choose to receive the Annual Report on pages 59 to 82. either in paper form or electronically.
This Report, along Relations with shareholders with a wide range of shareholder information including the We are committed to, and place a great deal of importance interim report, is also available on the Companys website.
on, having an active dialogue with our investor base.
Additional information for shareholders can be found on The Company maintains constructive engagement with page 158. its key stakeholders including institutional shareholders.
AGM During the year, our CEO and Chief Financial Officer Shareholders receive at least 20 working days notice CFO met with a number of our leading shareholders to of the AGM.
The AGM offers the opportunity for the discuss issues relating to the performance of the Group, Board, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination strategy and new developments.
In addition, the Chairman and Remuneration Committees, to communicate the engaged with the majority of our top ten shareholders Companys progress directly to shareholders.
The Board on a range of governance matters.
The SID and the other aims to ensure that all members of the Board, including non-executive directors are available to shareholders to in particular the Chairmen of the Board committees, are discuss any matter they wish to raise.
As part of changes available to answer questions at the AGM.
To encourage planned for remuneration arrangements, during the year shareholders to participate in the AGM process, the major shareholders were informed in advance and had Company offers electronic proxy voting through the CREST the opportunity to discuss these with the Chairman of the service and all resolutions are proposed and voted on at Remuneration Committee.
the meeting on an individual basis by shareholders or their As regards governance issues, the Chairman aims to proxies.
Voting results are announced on the same day meet with most of our major shareholders shortly after as the meeting through RNS and made available on the each AGM.
These meetings with shareholders are timed Companys website.
early in the process so that the Board has enough time to Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to consider, and respond to, any shareholder concerns well be held on 11 February 2016 can be found in the Notice in advance of the next years Annual Report.
The Chairman convening the AGM on pages 152 to 153. normally contacts as many major shareholders as possible, and not simply the very largest, to ensure the widest By order of the Board consultation possible and also to ensure that the views of any shareholder who has substantially increased its stake R M Walker during the year, have been fully taken into account.
Chairman 16 November 2015 Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
