COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board membership and The succession planning processes Board composition and independence meeting attendance associated with the appointments of As at the date of this report, the Board Board Chairman: Jeff Harris Tommy Breen and Paul Lester involved has eight members, comprising a the Board, under the direction of the Non-Executive Chairman, Non-Executive Nomination Committee, carrying out Chairman Designate, two Executive Jeff Harris 6 6 a detailed review and assessment of the Directors and four Non-Executive Paul Lester 0 0 current composition and dynamics of the Directors.
The names of the Directors Board as a whole, with careful consideration serving during and at the end of the year Colin Day 6 6 of the future needs of the Board, having are set out below and their biographical Terry Twigger 6 6 regard to the Companys strategic details can be found on pages 44 to 45. objectives as outlined in Drive for 2020.
Stefan Schellinger 1 1 Jeff Harris Non-Executive Chairman Tommy Breen 4 4 Given the nature and extent of those Paul Lester Non-Executive Chairman Peter Hill 6 6 discussions and the appointments made Designate, appointed during the course of 2015, the Board Lorraine Trainer 6 6 23 December 2015 considered that there was no additional Matthew Gregory 3 3 Colin Day Chief Executive need to commission a separate Board Paul Drechsler 2 2 evaluation.
With Jeff Harris retiring at Terry Twigger Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the 2016 AGM in April, no evaluation Figures in brackets denote the maximum was undertaken of his performance as Tommy Breen Non-Executive Director, number of meetings that could have Chairman during 2015.
The Remuneration appointed 23 April 2015 been attended.
and Audit Committees each undertook Peter Hill Non-Executive Director discussions regarding their respective Lorraine Non-Executive Director The Essentra Board is accountable to performance during the year and the Trainer all the Companys stakeholders for the anticipated challenges in 2016 and beyond.
standards of governance which are Stefan Executive Director, appointed Schellinger 8 October 2015 maintained across Essentras diverse The Company applies the Codes range of global businesses.
principles of openness, integrity and Matthew Executive Director, Gregory resigned 28 August 2015 accountability through its own behaviour, During the year, Essentra was and corporate governance best practice and by continues to be subject to the UK adopting, as appropriate and proportionate Corporate Governance Code the for a company of the size and nature of Code 2014 published by the Financial Essentra, recommendations of relevant Reporting Council, a copy of which can professional bodies.
be found on its website www.
The Board is collectively responsible for The Board has reviewed its operations the long-term success of the Company, and governance framework and confirms and its role is to provide entrepreneurial that as at the date of this report, the leadership within a framework of prudent Company has complied with the provisions and effective controls, which enables risk set out in the UK Corporate Governance to be assessed and managed in the pursuit Code, except for B.
As stated in the of the Companys strategic objectives.
Chairmans letter, during the year there was not a performance evaluation review conducted of the Boards effectiveness, nor of its Committees nor individual Directors.
48 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM The Board believes that it and its Board roles The Board maintains that, for the Committees have the appropriate The SI Non-Executive Director, currently year ended 31 December 2015, the composition to discharge their respective Terry Twigger, can be contacted via the Non-Executive Directors were each duties effectively with the appropriate level Companys registered office.
In that role, he considered to be independent.
of challenge and level of independence, is available to shareholders to discuss and and that the members of the Board in develop an understanding of their issues In assessing independence, the Board conjunction with the senior executive and any concerns which cannot be resolved considers that the Chairman and teams are well equipped to drive, and are by discussions with the Chairman, the Chief Non-Executive Directors are independent capable of delivering, the Companys Drive Executive or Group Finance Director, or of management and free from business for 2020 strategic objectives.
The Board is where such contact is inappropriate.
and other relationships which could of the view that it has a highly competent interfere with the exercise of independent Chairman who, together with each of Chairman judgement now and in the future.
The the other Non-Executive Directors, has Leads the Board Board believes that any shareholdings considerable international experience of the Chairman and Non-Executive Ensures effective communication at a senior level in the management of Directors serve to align their interests with shareholders activities broadly similar to those carried with those of the shareholders.
out by Essentra and the material issues Ensures effective communication likely to arise for the Group.
flows between Directors The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors provide an Facilitates the effective As previously announced, Paul Lester will independent view in Board discussions communication of all Directors assume the role of Chairman at the close and in the development of the Companys of the 2016 AGM.
The Board is of the view strategy.
Non-Executive Directors also that Paul will be a competent Chairman, Chief Executive ensure a sound basis for good corporate and brings to the Board considerable Implements strategy governance for the Company, challenging international experience at a senior level managements performance and, in Develops manageable goals in the management of activities broadly conjunction with the Executive Directors, and priorities similar to those carried out by Essentra.
ensuring that rigorous financial controls Leads and motivates the and systems of risk management are The roles of the Chairman and the Chief management teams maintained as appropriate to the needs Executive are separately held and are so of the businesses within Essentra.
Develops proposals to present to defined as to ensure a clear separation of the Board on all areas reserved responsibilities.
Details are available on the The Board is content that the Nonfor its judgement Companys website www.
Executive Directors devote sufficient time The Chairman leads the Board and ensures to the business of Essentra.
its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive Company Secretary is responsible for the executive The Company Secretary maintains a Executive Directors may accept outside management and performance of record of attendance at Board meetings appointments, provided that such Essentras operations.
Together with the and Committee meetings.
The Company appointments do not in any way primary responsibilities of the Senior Secretarys other responsibilities include prejudice the ability to perform their Independent SI Non-Executive Director, ensuring good information flows to duties on behalf of Essentra.
the other Non-Executive Directors and the the Board and its Committees, and clear definition of reserved matters and between senior management and Colin Day, the Chief Executive, currently delegated authorities, there is a system the Non-Executive Directors, advising holds three external non-executive which exists of checks and balances in the Board on all legal and corporate positions, but the Board is of the view which no individual has unfettered governance matters, and assisting the that these are not detrimental to the decision-making power.
Chairman in ensuring that the Directors performance of his duties given the time have suitably tailored and detailed requirements involved.
induction and ongoing professional development programmes.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The letters of appointment for NonDuring 2015, the Board was closely with the controls within this framework.
Executive Directors are available for engaged in the detailed monitoring of However, the Board as a whole maintains review at the Companys registered performance and the actions necessary oversight of such important matters and office and prior to the AGM.
to maintain the balanced, profitable after each Committee meeting, the growth of the Company in accordance Chairman of the Audit Committee reports The Companys Articles of Association with its Drive to 2020 objectives, details on the matters which have been reviewed.
require that all new Directors seek election of which can be found on the Companys to the Board at the AGM following their website www.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated appointment.
In addition, the Board has to the Nomination and Remuneration agreed that, in compliance with the Code, Boards and Committees Committees.
These Committees report all eligible Directors will put themselves During the year, there were six scheduled as appropriate to the Board.
Each of forward for re-election on an annual basis.
In addition to these the Committees have terms of reference The Board is satisfied that each of the scheduled formal meetings, the Board approved by the Board, copies of which Directors being put forward for re-election met on a number of other occasions as are available on the Companys website at the AGM continues to be effective and required and, in particular, reviewed in www.
com or on request from that their ongoing commitment to the role detail the further development and the Company Secretary & General Counsel.
delivery of the Groups strategy.
Operational matters and the responsibility The conduct of Board matters The Chairman and Chief Executive for the day-to-day management of the In managing the affairs of the Company, maintain regular contact with the businesses are delegated to the Chief the Board has adopted a schedule of Directors, and the Chairman also holds Executive, supported by members of senior reserved matters which are to be as appropriate, from time to time, executive management and the respective reviewed annually including: informal discussions with Non-Executive Regional Managing Directors or Presidents Strategy and resources Directors individually or collectively as appropriate, within delegated authority without any of the Executive Directors limits and in accordance with clearly Annual plan being present, to review performance, defined systems of internal control.
Treasury policies discuss succession issues, to monitor corporate control mechanisms and Essentra operates within a matrix Major capital and operating to discuss any other material matters organisational structure, with the expenditure proposals relevant to the Board.
establishment of three geographical Major acquisitions and disposals regions to supplement the existing SBU The Chairman, in conjunction with the structure.
The role of the regions is to Debt facilities Company Secretary & General Counsel, drive in-market execution, with the SBUs Key Group policies sets the programme for the Board during taking responsibility for those activities the year.
The Board considers reports from of a longer-term, more strategic nature.
Appointments to the Board the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Systems of internal control Director covering operational, financial The Board was supported during the performance and other significant year by the GMC, which ensures a strong Dividend payments business issues.
Board meetings are link between Essentras overall corporate Categories of public announcements structured to allow open discussion, and strategy and its implementation within all Directors participate in determining an effective internal control environment.
the Groups strategy and regularly The detailed implementation of all reviewing the trading and financial The GMC, which provides general these, and general operational matters, performance of the Company.
executive management of the Company are the responsibility of executive senior within agreed delegated authority limits management and regular formal reports Committees are a valuable part of determined by the Board, consists of are provided to the Board.
the Companys corporate governance senior executive management, and the structure, and the Board looks to the Audit regional and SBU heads.
Committee in particular to undertake the majority of the work involved in monitoring and seeking assurance as to compliance 50 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Engagement with management Conflict of interests Both Tommy Breen and Paul Lester have The Board receives detailed reports at Directors have a statutory duty to met a number of the senior management each scheduled Board meeting on the avoid actual or potential conflicts of team and undertaken visits to operational operational and financial performance interest.
The Companys Articles of sites.
It is intended that this programme of the businesses from the Chief Executive Association permit the Board to consider will continue throughout 2016. and the Group Finance Director, together and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations with regular updates on any material where a Director has an interest that All Directors have access to the advice issues which may impact the Group.
conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with and services of the Company Secretary the interests of the Company.
In addition, & General Counsel, who is responsible The Board received detailed presentations the Company has a Conflict of Interests to the Chairman for ensuring that Board from senior management across a range of policy governing the responsibilities of procedures are complied with and that businesses within the Company during the Directors in such situations.
The decision applicable rules and regulations are course of the year, in addition to reviewing to authorise a conflict of interest can only followed.
During the year under review, strategic plans and budgets of the Company.
be made by non-conflicted Directors the Company Secretary & General The Board also considers reports from senior those who have no interest in the matter Counsels advice was sought in relation to functional management about matters of being considered and in making such share dealings.
In the furtherance of their material importance to the Company which a decision the Directors must act duties, there are agreed procedures for the arise from time to time.
honestly and in good faith when giving Directors to take independent professional authorisation where they think this is advice, if necessary, at the Companys There is a programme of meetings, both appropriate, and will be most likely expense.
No Director took independent formal and informal, with members of to promote the Companys success.
professional advice during the year.
the senior executive management and The Company Secretary & General the Board has the opportunity to engage Counsel maintains a register of Directors Shareholder communications with local management during site visits.
interests so that any potential concerns The Board recognises the importance The Board derives a better understanding are addressed before any material of effective communication, and seeks of the Companys operations and business concerns may arise.
During the course to maintain open and transparent model as a result of such contact.
of the year, there were no material relationships with its shareholders and conflicts of interest impacting on the other stakeholders, including providers Applying Essentras Corporate conduct of the Boards activities.
of finance, customers and suppliers.
This Responsibility principles is achieved by regular updates through The Chief Executive is the Director Information and press announcements, the corporate with primary responsibility for the professional development website and other published material.
implementation and integration of The Chairman, supported by the Essentras Corporate Responsibility Company Secretary & General Counsel, All shareholders have the opportunity principles across the Company.
During takes responsibility for ensuring that the to meet any of the Directors of the 2015, the Group Operations Director, Directors receive accurate, timely and Company should they so wish.
Feedback supported by the Company Secretary clear information.
from meetings with shareholders is & General Counsel, was responsible for provided to the Board so they are aware co-ordinating the operation of detailed On appointment, an induction of any issues or concerns and ensures policies on health and safety, ethics programme tailored to their individual that the Board has a balanced view and the environment which support needs is available to Directors, and from the major investors.
Additionally, Essentras commitment to its Corporate is designed to assist them in their the Board uses the AGM as an occasion Responsibility principles.
Further details understanding of Essentra and its to communicate with all shareholders, of these policies can be viewed via the operations.
Throughout a Directors including private investors, who are Corporate Responsibility page on the tenure, they are encouraged to develop provided with the opportunity to question Companys website www.
their knowledge of the Group through the Directors.
At the AGM, the level of meetings with senior management and proxy votes lodged on each resolution is site visits.
Directors are also provided with made available, both at the meeting and updates, as appropriate, on matters such subsequently on the Companys website.
as fiduciary duties, Companies Act Each substantially separate issue is requirements, share dealing restrictions presented as a separate resolution, and and corporate governance matters.
the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company also communicates Directors and Officers insurance The following procedures are in place regularly with its major institutional In accordance with the Companys which enable the Board to review the shareholders and ensures that all the Articles of Association, and to the effectiveness of the system of Directors, including the Non-Executive extent permitted by the laws of England internal control: Directors, have an understanding of and Wales, the Directors are granted The Audit Committee meets regularly the views and concerns of major an indemnity from the Company in and reviews the effectiveness of the shareholders, and are able to explain respect of those liabilities incurred as internal control environment of the business developments and financial a result of their office.
In respect of those Group results as appropriate.
The Chief matters for which the Directors may not The Audit Committee is supported Executive, Group Finance Director and be indemnified, the Company maintained by the Group Assurance function, Corporate Affairs Director have primary a Directors and Officers Liability which undertakes extensive internal responsibility for investor relations.
Insurance policy throughout the year.
It is audit responsibilities across the Group Presentations for analysts and anticipated this policy will be renewed.
shareholders were held during the year, Neither the Companys indemnity nor Risk management reports are and meetings were also undertaken the insurance provides cover to the extent presented which detail an analysis with key institutional investors to discuss that a Director is proven to have acted of the key risks at a Group level, strategy, financial performance and dishonestly or fraudulently.
summarise developments potentially investment activities.
Slide presentations impacting the Group from a risk, are made immediately available after Internal controls governance or compliance the fulland half-year results, and are In accordance with the Code, the Board perspective, and propose actions for also available on the Companys website acknowledges its overall responsibility to the Company in response to such to view and download.
The Company shareholders to ensure that an adequate developments ensures that any price-sensitive system of risk management and internal The Board has the opportunity to information is released to all shareholders control is in place.
This is essential for review the internal control environment at the same time, in accordance with reliable financial reporting and also for at local sites when Board meetings regulatory requirements.
the effective management of the Group.
are held away from the Companys head office Financial reporting Overseeing the effectiveness of the The Directors have acknowledged, in the system has been delegated to the Audit Every month, each region and SBU Statement of Directors Responsibilities Committee, which assesses the quality of submits detailed operating and set out on page 83, their responsibility for the control environment when monitoring financial reports covering all aspects preparing the Financial Statements of the and reviewing the integrity of the Groups of performance.
These are reviewed Company and the Group.
The Directors Financial Statements, and any significant within the Groups central finance are responsible for preparing the Annual judgements that were made in their function, and summary reports Report and Accounts, and they consider preparation.
Essentras internal controls are communicated to the GMC that the Annual Report and Accounts are designed to safeguard the Companys and the Board taken as a whole are fair, balanced and assets, and to ensure the integrity and Certificates are required from the understandable.
The external auditor has reliability of information used both businesses to confirm compliance with included, in the Independent Auditors within the businesses and for public the Groups policies and procedures Report set out on pages 138 to 142, announcements.
The Board has overall a statement about their reporting responsibility for the Companys system Self-certification is required from all responsibilities.
of internal control and risk management, businesses, at both the half year and and for reviewing the effectiveness of year end, to confirm compliance with The Directors are also responsible for this system.
Such a system can only Group financial policies and procedures the publication of Half Year Results, be designed to mitigate, rather than as required by the Disclosure and eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Transparency Rules of the Financial business objectives, and can therefore Services Authority.
This provides a general only provide reasonable, and not absolute, description of the financial position and assurance against material misstatement performance of the Company and the or loss.
Group during the relevant period.
52 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Policies and procedures, which are The Audit Committee enhances the Risk attitude will change over time to reflect subject to ongoing review and updated quality of the Boards oversight of the changes in the economic environment, as required in response to strategic, risk management process within Essentra, strategy and performance of the Company, operational, business, legal or regulatory but does not determine the Companys and it is the intention of the Board to developments, with the approval of the attitude and tolerance for risk.
review this at least on an annual basis in Board or its respective Committees as conjunction with its strategic and financial appropriate, are communicated across The risk management activities planning processes.
Essentras internal controls within the Company are supported are designed to ensure significant risks, by the Operational Risk Management The Company has an established process investment decisions and management Committee, which reports to the Audit for the development of risk practices.
issues are identified, considered and Committee through the Group Head Further to the setting of the risk attitude escalated as necessary at the earliest of Assurance, and the Executive Risk by the Board, there is a more formal opportunity.
Regional Managing Directors Management Committee which reports method of defining acceptable levels and Presidents are responsible for ensuring to the Board through the Chief Executive.
of risk within the organisation.
The risk the communication of, and compliance process has evolved and is validated with, Essentras internal controls across The respective risk committees met on a through the preparation of risk registers their respective regions.
regular basis during the year and reported which are used to assess risk tolerance, to the Board or Audit Committee, as and the registers are reviewed and Control of significant risks appropriate, on the Companys discussed by senior management prior The Boards responsibility for risk and risk identification and mitigation of risk within to being put forward to the Audit management in Essentra encompasses: the parameters established by the Board.
Determining the Companys approach to risk The Board is of the view that a rigorous With the continued development of ongoing process for identifying, evaluating the Group Assurance function, further Setting and instilling the appropriate and managing significant risks faced by controls have been introduced to culture throughout the Company the Company was in place throughout improve effectiveness, reduce costs Identifying the risks inherent in 2015, and up to the date of approval of the and support business performance.
the Companys business model 2015 Annual Report.
This process has been and strategy, including risks from reviewed by the Audit Committee and The risk management technology external factors will be assessed routinely, to ensure that platform continues to enhance the the system of internal control and risk reporting tools currently being used, Monitoring the Companys exposure management remains fit for purpose.
and allows the Company to improve risk to risk and the key risks that could management, develop risk strategies into undermine its strategy, reputation The risk attitude established by the risk mitigation and eliminate any lack of or long-term viability Board provides clarity on those areas coverage.
The platform allows real time Providing an effective oversight of where the Board wishes to take little or reporting of risks from the operational the risk management processes in no risk, and those where the Board would businesses to the executive management.
the Company be comfortable adopting a greater level of risk taking.
It is intended that this Ensuring the Company has effective assessment will be used to support the crisis management systems Boards ongoing decision making and A Group risk framework is in place which underpin the risk management processes supports the Board in fulfilling these across the Company.
responsibilities and serves to reinforce the risk review processes embedded within the businesses.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Nomination Committee Jeff Harris, did not attend those meetings Made recommendations to the Board Committee Chairman: Jeff Harris and the SI Non-Executive Director, for the appointment of Paul Lester as Terry Twigger, acted as Chairman of the Chairman Designate Stefan Schellinger Nomination Committee in his absence.
as Group Finance Director and Tommy Membership as at 31 December 2015 and attendance Breen as a Non-Executive Director The Nomination Committee, and the Jeff Harris 3 6 Board as a whole, supports the spirit of Non-Executive Chairman The Nomination Committee was satisfied the recommendations set out in the Terry Twigger that all the appointments made during 6 6 SI Non-Executive Director Lord Davies Report Women on Boards.
the year provide the Board with additional Securing the right combination of skills, Tommy Breen 4 4 skills and current experience relevant to Non-Executive Director experience and expertise allows the Board the activities of the Company and its to effectively lead the sustainable growth Peter Hill 6 6 future development.
The biographies of Non-Executive Director and success of the Company for the Paul Lester, Stefan Schellinger and Tommy benefit of all stakeholders.
The fundamental Lorraine Trainer 6 6 Breen are available on pages 44 to 45.
Non-Executive Director objective must be to ensure that the best people are appointed to do the best job JCA Group was engaged to assist the Figures in brackets denote the maximum for Essentra, taking into consideration Committees review and evaluation of number of meetings that could have other factors, such as market and potential candidates for the role of an been attended.
international experience, and diversity additional Non-Executive Director.
Appointing The Company Secretary & General people on merit, without any form of Zygos was engaged to assist the Counsel acts as Secretary to the discrimination, is a key component of Committees review and evaluation Nomination Committee.
Essentra policies across all its international of potential candidates for the roles operations at all levels.
of Chairman Designate and Group Other attendees Finance Director.
The Chief Executive, Paul Drechsler Nomination Committee 2015 to April 2015 and the Group Human key activities There is no related party connection with Resources Director attended by invitation Reviewed the composition and JCA Group or Zygos, and their respective as appropriate.
structure of the Companys Board assignments were undertaken on an arms and the Committees length basis.
The Nomination Committee is responsible Reviewed the succession planning for selecting and recommending candidates for the Board and senior executives, for appointment as Executive and as and in doing so considered diversity, Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
experience, knowledge and skills In the furtherance of these duties and when considering succession planning, Reviewed the Group Conflict of the Nomination Committee looks at the Interests policy and register, and was balance, structure and composition of satisfied that there were no material the Board and takes into account the issues of conflict future challenges and opportunities Reviewed the capabilities of external facing the Company.
consultants to assist the Committee in the search for, and evaluation and The Nomination Committee meets as appointment of, new individuals to required, and during 2015 it met six times.
the Board and its Committees During the year, the Nomination Developed, in conjunction with external Committee met three times to discuss consultation, the key requirements for the succession and appointment of a the new appointments to the Board, new Chairman.
The current Chairman, and assessed the capabilities of potential candidates 54
