COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Committee Chairman: Terry Twigger The Audit Committee supports the Other provisions Board and reports to it on a regular basis, The Group holds provisions in relation certainly no less frequently than at every to exposures in cases where there is a Committee membership and Board meeting following a meeting of probable legal or constructive obligation meeting attendance the Audit Committee.
as a result of a past event.
These provisions Terry Twigger 4 4 are categorised as Reorganisation and SI Non-Executive Director There is an annual cycle of items Other.
Provisions for Reorganisation Tommy Breen that are to be considered by the Audit represent exit and redundancy costs 2 3 Non-Executive Director Committee.
The timetable of these for sites where there is a constructive items is scheduled in accordance with obligation in place for closure at the Peter Hill 4 4 Non-Executive Director the requirements of the annual audit balance sheet date.
Other provisions cycle and any other requirements of the contain warranty, onerous lease and Lorraine Trainer 4 4 Audit Committee.
The responsibilities dilapidations provisions, which have Non-Executive Director of the Audit Committee are defined in arisen in the ongoing business as well its terms of reference, which are reviewed as in those which have been acquired.
Figures in brackets denote the maximum annually and copies of which are available number of meetings that could have at www.
The Audit Committee noted that, by their been attended.
nature, these provisions are judgemental, Significant financial judgements reflecting managements assessment of Tommy Breen was unable to attend for 2015 a number of variables including possible one meeting due to an existing amounts and timing, but that the commitment prior to his appointment Tax liabilities Company had continued to adopt a to the Audit Committee.
The Group is, from time to time, subject consistent approach in accordance with its to tax assessments which may represent relevant policies and an appropriate level of The Company Secretary & General Counsel potential future tax exposures, which arise prudence.
After careful consideration of the acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
in the ordinary course of business from tax rationale, outlined by the Group Finance authorities in a number of the jurisdictions Director, the Audit Committee was satisfied Other attendees in which the Group operates.
The Group that the Companys treatment of these The external auditor, Chairman of the assesses all such exposures in the context items was appropriate, and concurred with Board, Group Finance Director, Paul of the tax laws of the countries in which the accounting treatment for the externally Drechsler February meeting only, it operates and, where applicable, makes reported provisions.
Group Head of Assurance and members provisions for any settlements which it of the GMC attended meetings by considers appropriate.
Revenue recognition invitation, as appropriate.
During the year, There are a large number of sales the Audit Committee met the external The Audit Committee reviewed the transactions that are incurred across the auditor, KPMG LLP, and the Group Head of tax liabilities which existed at the start Group where the estimation of product Assurance without the Executive Directors of the year and those created during the returns and warranty require significant being present.
year and the effective tax rate, together judgement.
Given the risk that sales may with their corresponding assumptions.
be recognised in the incorrect period over Governance The Audit Committee questioned and reporting dates, the Group needs to ensure All the Audit Committee members are challenged the Group Finance Director as that there are effective controls regarding independent Non-Executive Directors, and to the Companys risk attitude in this area.
the recording of sales transactions.
have financial and or related business experience gained in senior positions in Having considered the explanations Revenue recognition was considered as a other large diverse organisations.
and rationale provided by the Company, key area of audit focus, and the external and taking this into consideration, along auditor addressed the potential issue with Terry Twigger has been the Chairman of with the conclusion of the external auditor, the Audit Committee during the planning the Audit Committee since 2009, and the the Audit Committee was satisfied that of the external audit process and scope.
Board is satisfied that Terry has recent the tax liabilities were appropriate, and The Group Finance Director outlined the and relevant financial experience, further that the Groups tax disclosures were direction given to the finance and details of which can be found on page 44. adequate given the nature of the activity commercial organisations on all aspects of undertaken by the Group.
revenue recognition, as well as the reviews undertaken by management.
56 DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM The Group Finance Director also The external auditor used its own valuation Risk management and internal audit acknowledged the degree of reliance on specialists to critically challenge the key Reviewed and considered reports local judgement, but emphasised that valuation assumptions and methodologies.
from the Group Head of Assurance, in-market controls and internal reporting After careful consideration of the reports including any issues relating to internal requirements would make it unlikely that from the Company and the external controls and the status of actions taken there were material or systematic errors.
auditor, the Audit Committee was in response to any identified concerns satisfied with the assumptions made and Monitored the development of risk The Audit Committee was notified of the judgements applied, and that the management practices through the the changes to revenue recognition which Companys approach to acquisition Group Assurance function will occur as a result of the implementation accounting was appropriate and in line of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with with accounting standards.
Received reports from the Group Customers effective for the year ending Head of Assurance regarding the 31 December 2018, and which will involve Audit Committee 2015 key activities activities of the Operational Risk significant judgements and has extensive Management and the Executive disclosure requirements.
The Group Financial Statements and reports Risk Management Committees Finance Director informed the Audit Examined the 31 December 2014 Assessed the areas of focus for Committee that the Company will Annual Report and Accounts and internal audit and the adequacy undertake a thorough review of the the 30 June 2015 Half Year Report.
of coverage, having regard to the impact of the changes during the course This involved reviewing, challenging potential risks impacting the Group of 2016 and 2017 with the assistance of the and recommending for approval the external auditor, and will discuss this with going concern basis of preparation, Reviewed the output from the Group the Audit Committee at future meetings.
the accounting policies and disclosures, processes used to identify, evaluate the financial reporting issues and the and mitigate risk, and considered the Acquisition accounting assumptions and judgements made key risks arising from the Companys As a result of the Groups recent acquisitions, activities and the response of senior Reviewed in detail the key judgements there are significant intangible assets and management to those challenges of the Financial Statements and levels goodwill recognised on the balance sheet.
of disclosure Assessed the Companys response The valuation of these assets is based to cyber security and information on sales forecasts, discount rates and Reviewed the effectiveness of the technology risks other key assumptions which are subject Groups internal controls and disclosures to significant judgement.
Other assets made in the Annual Report and Reviewed the adequacy of the and liabilities acquired are recognised at Financial Statements Companys resources in relation to their fair value on acquisition date.
The fair financial reporting, tax and treasury Reviewed the impact of new IFRS value adjustments are also subject to key management requirements pronouncements assumptions based on market data and Oversaw compliance activities while valuation techniques, including discounted Reviewed the key responsibilities of the monitoring the regulatory environment, cash flows.
Directors, particularly in relation to the and assessed any impact to the business issues which should be considered in Acquisition accounting was considered order to conclude the annual accounts Reviewed the Companys as a key area of audit focus, and the are fair, balanced and understandable whistleblowing processes and reports external auditor addressed the potential made during the year under its Right Considered the accounting principles issue with the Audit Committee during to Speak policy to be adopted in the preparation of the planning of the external audit process the 2016 accounts Reviewed and considered the Human and scope.
The Audit Committee noted Resources risk review report that management had engaged with suitably qualified external parties to provide Considered the development and valuations of the intangible assets and testing of the Companys business properties, and that the methodologies continuity plans used by the advisers were consistent with those used by the Company in the past.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee takes responsibility The Audit Committee continued its focus objectivity and provide fresh challenge for reviewing the Groups internal controls on the Groups compliance activities and to the business.
Such changes are carefully through its engagement with the Group received regular presentations from the planned, to ensure that the Group benefits Assurance function.
The Group Head Company Secretary & General Counsel.
from staff continuity without incurring of Assurance is responsible for providing The Audit Committee noted the undue risk of inefficiency.
assurances as to the adequacy of internal investment made by the Company in controls throughout the Company, and new systems designed to better facilitate The external auditor provides the Audit attends each Audit Committee meeting.
compliance policy management and Committee with relevant reports, reviews, Prior to the start of each year, the Audit training across the Group, and deliver information and advice throughout the year, Committee agrees the annual internal due diligence processes to assist in the as set out in the terms of their engagement.
audit plan, which is drawn up on a riskmanagement of third-party risk.
Their performance was formally assessed by based approach across a broad section of the Audit Committee in conjunction with the Companys activities.
Any significant External auditor and non-audit work the executive management team, and the findings from internal control audits Reviewed and agreed the scope of Audit Committee is satisfied that the undertaken during the year have been the audit work to be undertaken by external auditor continues to be effective appropriately investigated, and necessary the external auditor and provides appropriate independent action taken to address and rectify any challenge of the Companys management.
Agreed the terms of engagement and weaknesses that may have been identified.
In making its assessment of the external fees to be paid to the external auditor auditor, the Audit Committee had due for their audit of the 31 December 2015 With the significant growth and regard to their expertise, resourcing and Financial Statements acquisition activity undertaken by the independence.
Company, and the expansion into new Reviewed the qualifications, expertise, markets and geographies, the Audit resources and independence of the As such, the Audit Committee has Committee has sought assurance that external auditor, and assessed their not considered it necessary this year the internal controls, together with risk performance to conduct a tender process for the management and compliance activities, appointment of its external auditor.
Reviewed proposals for the engagement have continued to develop in accordance Having carried out the review described of the external auditor for non-audit with all relevant requirements, and that above, and having satisfied itself that services, and confirmed that their appropriate resource is being made the external auditor remains independent independence was safeguarded available to respond to those demands.
and effective, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the The internal procedures implemented During the year, the Audit Committee external auditor be reappointed at the by the Company to ensure the Board continued to review the Companys cyber 2016 AGM.
maintains overall control for all material security capabilities and received regular strategic, financial, operational and presentations from both the Group The Audit Committee has been kept compliance matters affecting the Finance Director and the Chief Information up-to-date with the development of Company are included within the Officer.
The Audit Committee noted the new EU-wide regulations concerning internal control section of this Report.
comprehensive Information Technology audit tenure and the longevity of audit scorecard which had been devised to firm relationships with companies The Board establishes the standards detail the key actions being undertaken, they audit.
and values that govern the Group, and and the extent of the progress during agrees the structure of the Groups the year.
One of the key improvement Under EU transitional arrangements, internal controls.
initiatives was the commencement of the current intention is to initiate an the Standard Desktop project which audit re-tender during the course of Engagement of the external auditor bought the Groups entire laptop 2016.
There are no contractual obligations Although the external auditor has been infrastructure and email environments restricting the Audit Committees choice in place since the Companys public listing together, to enable the central IT function of external auditor.
in 2005, the external auditor periodically to monitor activity across the Group, changes the audit partners at a Group, deploy updates and controls remotely divisional and country level in accordance and guarantee a consistent set-up on with professional and regulatory standards, each machine.
in order to protect independence and 58 DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM To fulfil its responsibility regarding the Non-audit services policy independence of the external auditor, The importance of maintaining the the Audit Committee reviewed: objectivity and independence of the Changes in senior audit personnel in external auditor, by minimising its the audit plan for the current year involvement in projects of a non-audit nature, is of fundamental concern to A report from the external auditor the Audit Committee.
It is, however, also describing the arrangements to acknowledged that, due to its detailed identify, report and manage any understanding of the Companys business, conflicts of interest it may sometimes be necessary to involve The extent of non-audit services the external auditor in non-audit related provided by the external auditor work, principally comprising further assurance services relating to due diligence To assess the effectiveness of the external and other duties carried out in respect of auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: acquisitions, disposals and tax services.
The external auditors fulfilment of the The Audit Committee has adopted a agreed audit plan and variations from policy in relation to the engagement of it, and reports highlighting the major the external auditor to supply non-audit issues that arose during the course of services, with defined parameters and the audit approval requirements in relation to any Feedback from the businesses such appointments.
evaluating the performance of each audit team Details of the fees paid to KPMG LLP during the year can be found in note 2 The external auditor is engaged to express to the Financial Statements on page 101. an opinion on the Financial Statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the system of internal financial control and the data contained in the Financial Statements, to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the Financial Statements.
