36 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Corporate Governance The Listing Rules require premium listed companies to report against the Financial Reporting Councils 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The paragraphs below and in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 69 set out how the company has applied the principles laid down by the Code.
The company continues substantially to comply with the Code, save for the exceptions disclosed in the Directors Compliance Statement on page 45. diReCToRs The board and its role tax and executive remuneration Nominations Audit risk treasury members and attendance: Board committee committee committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held 7 11 3 4 3 3 2 during year executive directors PR Ensor retired 7 11 4 3 2 September 30 2015 A Rashbass appointed October 1 2015 CHC Fordham 7 11 4 3 1 NF Osborn 7 11 CR Jones 7 11 3 2 fide Alfano 7 10 JL Wilkinson 7 11 B AL-Rehany 7 11 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 7 4 Sir Patrick Sergeant 5 3 JC Botts 6 3 4 3 MWH Morgan 7 3 4 DP Pritchard independent 6 3 3 3 2 ART Ballingal independent 7 TP Hillgarth independent 7 3 On April 9 2015, the group announced the executive directors and eight non-executive The board believes that these changes will appointment of A Rashbass as executive directors, four of whom will be independent.
allow for more effective management of chairman with effect from October 1 2015.
Of the four non-executive directors who are the group including clearer delineation of PR Ensor retired as executive chairman on not independent, one is the founder and exresponsibilities between the board and the September 30 2015. chairman of the company, two are directors executive management team.
It will also bring of Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, the company more in line with widely accepted Following the changes to the board announced an intermediate parent company, and one corporate governance practice.
on November 19 2015 see page 37, CHC has served on the board for more than the Fordham, NF Osborn, fide Alfano, JL Wilkinson There are clear divisions of responsibility recommended term of nine years under the and B AL-Rehany will not seek re-election within the board such that no one individual Code.
as executive directors of the company at the has unfettered powers of decision.
Accordingly, after procedure for all directors in the furtherance of the AGM, subject to the re-election of each their duties to take independent professional director and following the recruitment and advice, at the companys expense.
They also appointment of a new non-executive chairman, have access to the advice and services of the it is expected that the board will comprise two company secretary.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance corPorAte GoverNANce Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 The board meets at least every two months A Rashbass to step down as chairman Nominations committee and there is frequent contact between of the nominations committee and JC The nominations committee is responsible meetings.
Board meetings take place in Botts to replace A Rashbass as chairman for proposing candidates for appointment London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong, of the nominations committee until an to the board having regard to the balance of and occasionally in other locations where the independent non-executive chairman has skills, structure and composition of the board group has operations.
The board has delegated been appointed: and ensuring the appointees have sufficient certain aspects of the groups affairs to standing CHC Fordham to step down from the time available to devote to the role.
During committees, each of which operates within nominations committee: and the year the committee comprised PR Ensor defined terms of reference available on the the number of executive directors on the chairman of the committee, CHC Fordham companys website.
Set out below are details of board to reduce and accordingly CHC and four non-executive directors, being Sir the membership and duties of the five principal Fordham, NF Osborn, JL Wilkinson, B Patrick Sergeant, The Viscount Rothermere, committees that operated throughout 2015.
AL-Rehany and fide Alfano not to seek reMWH Morgan and JC Botts.
PR Ensor retired However, to ensure its overall control of the election at the companys next AGM in on September 30 2015 and A Rashbass was groups affairs, the board has reserved certain January 2016. appointed chairman of the committee with matters to itself for decision.
Board meetings effect from October 1 2015.
The nominations committees main focus for are held to set and monitor strategy, identify, 2016 will be the recruitment and appointment The committee meets when required and this evaluate and manage material risks, to review of the new independent non-executive year met four times, and informal discussions trading performance, ensure adequate funding, chairman.
were held at other times during the year.
The examine major acquisition possibilities and main purpose of the meetings in 2015 was approve reports to shareholders.
Procedures The groups gender diversity information is set to recommend a successor to the board for are established to ensure that appropriate out in the Strategic Report on page 28.
PR Ensor as executive chairman who retired information is communicated to the board in as the companys chairman at the end of Remuneration committee a timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
A thorough search process The remuneration committee meets twice a year CommiTTees was undertaken by all of the non-executive and additionally as required.
It is responsible for Executive committee directors and not limited to the committee.
determining the contract terms, remuneration The executive committee meets each month The committee ensured that the appointed and other benefits of executive directors, to discuss strategy, results and forecasts, risks, executive search agency was independent and including performance-related incentives.
This possible acquisitions and disposals, costs, staff had no other connections with the group.
committee also recommends and monitors the numbers, recruitment and training, and other overall level of remuneration and remuneration Further meetings were held in October and management issues.
It also discusses corporate for senior management, including group-wide November 2015 to discuss the restructure of and social responsibility including the groups share option schemes.
The composition of the the board, which was proposed and agreed by various charity initiatives.
It is not empowered committee, details of directors remuneration the board on November 18 2015.
The board to make decisions except those that can be and interests in share options and information agreed that: made by the members in their individual on directors service contracts are set out in the capacities as executives with powers approved Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 the chairman of the board be changed to by the board of the company.
It is chaired by to 69. a non-executive role and that JC Botts be the group chairman and comprises all executive appointed as the non-executive chairman directors and 10 divisional directors.
Details in an interim capacity until such time and experience of each member can be found as the company appoints a permanent on the companys website.
The discussions of independent non-executive chairman: the committee are summarised by the group A Rashbasss role as executive chairman be chairman and reported to each board meeting, changed to the new role of chief executive together with recommendations on matters officer: reserved for board decisions.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 38 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Corporate Governance continued The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan Audit committee NoN-exeCuTiVe diReCToRs are also executive directors of DMGT, an The committee is responsible for reviewing and The non-executive directors bring both intermediate parent company.
However, the reporting to the board on the groups financial independent views and the views of the company is run as a separate, distinct and reporting and for maintaining an appropriate companys major shareholder to the board.
The decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and these relationship with the groups auditor.
Details of non-executive directors who served during the directors have no involvement in the day-to-day the members and role of the audit committee year were The Viscount Rothermere, Sir Patrick management of the company.
While they bring are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Sergeant, JC Botts, MWH Morgan, DP Pritchard valuable experience and advice to the company, independent, ART Ballingal independent and Risk committee the board does not believe these non-executive TP Hillgarth independent.
Their biographies The risk committee oversees the groups risk directors are able to exert undue influence can be found on page 31 of the accounts.
management processes and considers the on decisions taken by the board, nor does it group risk register biannually.
It reviews specific At least once a year the companys chairman consider their independence to be impaired risks and monitors developments in relevant meets the non-executive directors without by their positions with DMGT.
However, their legislation and regulation, assessing the impact the other executive directors being present.
relationship with DMGT means they are not on the group.
The committee reports on its The non-executive directors meet without the considered to be independent.
operations to the board to enable the directors companys chairman present at least annually to determine the overall effectiveness of the boARd ANd CommiTTee to appraise the chairmans performance and on eFFeCTiVeNess groups internal control and risk management other occasions as necessary.
Each year the performance of the board and systems.
During the year the risk committee The board considers DP Pritchard, ART Ballingal its committees is evaluated.
The Code requires was changed from an executive management and TP Hillgarth to be independent nonan externally facilitated evaluation of the board committee to a board committee, with defined executive directors.
JC Botts has been on the to be concluded every three years.
An external terms of reference which can be found on the board for more than the recommended term performance evaluation was conducted by a companys website.
Details of the members and of nine years under the Code and the board company independent to the group in 2014. role of the risk committee are set out on page believes that his length of service enhances The evaluation indicated a highly cohesive 44. his role as a non-executive director.
However, board and there were no outlying scores to Tax and treasury committee due to his length of service, JC Botts is not suggest any significant issues needed to be The groups tax and treasury committee considered to be independent.
normally meets twice a year and is responsible Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board Actions arising from the evaluation included for recommending policy to the board.
During in various roles since founding the company the following: 2015 the committee members comprised the in 1969 and has been a non-executive director chairman, managing director and finance More training on regulatory and compliance since 1992.
As founder and president of the director of the company, and the finance matters was required.
During the year the company, the board believes his insight and director and deputy finance director of DMGT.
board received briefings on trade sanctions external contacts remain invaluable.
However, The chairman of the audit committee is also and the implications of risk-related changes due to his length of service, Sir Patrick Sergeant invited to attend tax and treasury committee to the Code.
is not considered to be independent.
The groups treasury policies are Completion of embedding the strategy into directed to giving greater certainty of future The Viscount Rothermere has a significant the board agenda and regular strategic costs and revenues and ensuring that the group shareholding in the company through his reviews to be carried out.
During 2015 the has adequate liquidity for working capital and beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this managing director reported an update at debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
he is not considered independent.
each board meeting of the groups strategic Details of the tax and treasury policies are set priorities and the principal risks.
There were out in the Strategic Report on page 27. two strategy away days including members of the board and executive committee to discuss the opportunities for the company to return to growth.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance corPorAte GoverNANce Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Communication between the nominations shareholders have at least 20 working days Following the identification of governance committee and the board could be notice of the AGM at which the executive and financial irregularities at Centre for improved.
During 2015 all the nondirectors, non-executive directors and Investor Education CIE which resulted in an executive directors took part in the committee chairs are available for questioning.
overstatement in profit, the following steps were search for the new executive chairman taken by management.
The previous owners The companys chairman and finance director and attended informal meetings with the were removed from office and their directorships report to fellow board members matters raised members of the nominations committee.
and consultancy contracts were terminated, by shareholders and analysts to ensure members While many directors felt that risks were and a new CEO installed.
The businesss data, of the board develop an understanding of the well managed and communicated to records and systems were successfully isolated investors and potential investors views of the the board, some non-executive directors and secured and the business was moved company.
suggested that the role of the risk to new premises.
Management deployed an committee could be formalised.
During the independent forensic accounting team to iNTeRNAl CoNTRol ANd Risk year the risk committee was changed from complete a comprehensive investigation of the mANAgemeNT an executive management committee to a matter.
As a result the board was satisfied with The board as a whole is responsible for the board committee, with defined terms of the remedial actions taken by management.
oversight of risk, the groups system of internal reference.
In October 2015, the group filed a public control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
statement of claim against the previous owners Such a system is designed to manage rather Following his appointment, A Rashbass began a for breaches of warranties and other damages.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve strategic review of all aspects of the companys Management has also considered whether this business objectives, and can only provide business including its board structure and, could arise at any other location within the reasonable and not absolute assurance as a result of the initial stage of that review, group and was satisfied that the particular facts against material misstatement or loss.
The A Rashbass proposed to the nominations and circumstances that gave rise to this issue board has implemented a continuing process committee that the future management and have not arisen elsewhere.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the oversight of the company would be better material risks faced by the group.
served through a more traditional board The controls to prevent an information security structure, including the appointment of an breach or cyber-attack are being regularly The directors completed a review of the independent non-executive chairman and the enhanced to reflect evolving best practice.
As effectiveness of the groups system of risk creation of the new role of CEO.
See page 37 a result, these controls vary across the group, management and internal controls covering for the changes agreed by the board.
with some operating businesses requiring more all material controls, including financial, improvement than others.
Addressing these operational and compliance controls.
The During the year each of the main committees opportunities for improvement has been, and majority of controls operated throughout the completed a questionnaire encompassing key continues be, a focus area for the management year, though some additional controls were areas of their mandates.
It was concluded team of each business, the risk committee and implemented during the year.
The review did that the board and its committees had been the main board.
Significant progress is expected not identify any significant weaknesses in the effective throughout the year.
to be made within the next financial year.
system of internal control and risk management.
CommuNiCATioN WiTh Principal risks and mitigating actions are set out Where weaknesses were identified, they were shAReholdeRs on pages 15 to 21. localised and specific to individual businesses The companys chairman, together with the and not considered generic or significant at board, encourages regular dialogue with Key procedures which the directors have an overall group level.
Meetings with shareholders are established with a view to providing effective are small and based away from the main hubheld, both in the UK and in the US, to discuss internal control, and which have been in place offices.
As a result, local controls are weaker, annual and interim results and highlight throughout the year and up to the date of this but supplemented by central oversight and significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the report, are as follows: control giving an overall effective system of risk request of institutional shareholders.
shareholders are encouraged to participate in the AGM.
In line with best practice, all 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 40 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Corporate Governance continued The board of directors Accounting and computer systems ACCouNTAbiliTy controls and procedures the board normally meets six times a year to The board has determined that having separate Accounting controls and procedures are consider group strategy, risk management, audit and risk committees, each with specific regularly reviewed and communicated financial performance, acquisitions, terms of reference, is required to provide the throughout the group.
Particular attention is business development and management challenge and review necessary across the paid to authorisation levels and segregation of issues.
The board met seven times in 2015: range of businesses the group operates.
The groups tax, financing and foreign the board has overall responsibility for the audit and the risk committees collaborate with exchange positions are overseen by the tax and group and there is a formal schedule of one another, as appropriate, with members treasury committee.
Controls and procedures matters specifically reserved for decision by possessing the requisite skills and experience over the security of data and disaster recovery the board: to allow each committee to meet its obligation are periodically reviewed and are subject to each executive director has been given and to provide the relevant assurance to the internal audit.
responsibility for specific aspects of the board.
This ensures that matters of mutual groups affairs: interest raised in either of the committees are Internal audit the board reviews and assesses the groups discussed in the other committee and also The groups internal audit function is managed principal risks and uncertainties at least cascaded down to the operating businesses.
by DMGTs internal audit department, working annually and has performed a robust closely with the companys finance director.
AudiT CommiTTee assessment of those principal risks as Internal audit draws on the services of the Committee composition outlined on pages 14 to 21: groups central finance teams to assist in The audit committee comprises DP Pritchard the board seeks assurance that effective completing the audit assignments.
Internal audit chairman, independent, JC Botts, SW Daintith, control is being maintained through regular aims to provide an independent assessment the finance director of DMGT, and TPHillgarth reports from business group management, as to whether effective systems and controls independent.
Three of the four members are the audit committee and various are in place and being operated to manage non-executive directors.
All members of the independent monitoring functions: and significant operating and financial risks.
It also committee have a high level of financial literacy, the board approves the annual forecast aims to support management by providing cost SW Daintith and TP Hillgarth are chartered after performing a review of key risk effective recommendations to mitigate risk and accountants and members of the ICAEW, and factors.
Performance is monitored regularly control weaknesses identified during the audit DP Pritchard has considerable audit committee by way of variances and key performance process, as well as provide insight into where experience.
indicators to enable relevant action to cost efficiencies and monetary gains might be taken and forecasts are updated each Responsibilities be made by improving the operations of the quarter.
The board considers longer-term The committee meets at least three times each business.
Businesses and central departments financial projections as part of its regular financial year and is responsible for: are selected for an internal audit on a riskdiscussions on the groups strategy and focused basis, after taking account of the monitoring the integrity of the interim funding requirements.
risks identified as part of the risk management report, the annual report and accounts and process, the risk and materiality of each of the Investment appraisal other related formal statements, reviewing groups businesses, the scope and findings The managing director, finance director and accounting policies used and judgements of external audit work, the departments and business group managers consider proposals applied: businesses reviewed previously and the findings for acquisitions and new business investments.
reviewing the content of the Annual Report from these reviews.
This approach ensures that Proposals beyond specified limits are put to and Accounts and advising the board internal audit focus is placed on the higher the board for approval and are subject to due on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, risk areas of the group, while ensuring an diligence by the groups finance team and, if balanced and understandable and provides appropriate breadth of audit coverage.
For capital the information necessary for shareholders internal audit function reports its findings to expenditure above specified levels, detailed to assess the companys performance, management and to the audit committee.
written proposals must be submitted to the business model and strategy: board and reviews are carried out to monitor considering the effectiveness of the groups progress against business plan.
internal financial control systems: 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance corPorAte GoverNANce Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 considering the appointment or understandable.
The co-ordination and review knowledge sharing by management of reappointment of the external auditor and of the group-wide input to the Annual Report key risks and matters likely to affect the reviewing their remuneration, both for and Accounts is a sizeable exercise performed annual report through attendance by the audit and non-audit: within an exacting timeframe which runs chairman of the audit committee at the monitoring and reviewing the external alongside the formal audit process undertaken annual internal audit planning meeting and auditors independence and objectivity and by the external auditor.
tax and treasury committee meetings held the effectiveness of the audit process: during the year as well as through the audit Arriving at a position where initially the audit monitoring and reviewing the resources committee chairmans regular meetings committee, and then the board, are satisfied and effectiveness of internal audit: with management and internal audit: and with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of reviewing the internal audit programme a twice yearly review by the audit committee the report and accounts is underpinned by the and receiving periodic reports on its of key assumptions and judgements following: findings: made by management in preparation of reviewing the whistle-blowing arrangements the annual and interim reports as well as early preparation by management and available to staff: considering significant issues arising during review by the committee of key components reviewing the groups policy on the the year.
of the annual report, particularly those employment of former audit staff: and reflecting new disclosure and reporting Financial reporting and significant reviewing the groups policy on non-audit requirements: financial judgements fees.
comprehensive reviews undertaken The committee, with input from the external by management, a sub-committee of Content of the Annual Report and auditor, assessed whether suitable accounting the directors and the auditor to ensure Accounts fair, balanced and policies had been adopted, whether understandable consistency and overall balance: management had made appropriate estimates One of the key governance requirements and judgements and whether disclosures were of a groups financial statements is for the balanced and fair.
report and accounts to be fair, balanced and For the year ended September 30 2015 the committee reviewed the following main issues: issue review centre for investor education cie There were a number of financial and governance irregularities at CIE The committee was satisfied with the remedial actions taken by identified by the group in the first half of the year.
As a result, management management see Internal control and risk management on pages made a number of significant accounting judgements at the half year, namely: 39 and 40 following the identification of governance and financial irregularities.
recognition of a goodwill impairment charge of 2.9m on the basis of reforecast results and reflecting the impact of the public announcements The committee has examined all evidence provided to it, including relating to the exit of the former owners: and the groups own investigation, Deloitte & Touche LLP Australias the group, in its preparation of these financial statements at September findings and the advice from external legal counsel, in reaching 30 2015, has examined all evidence, including its own management the conclusion that the significant accounting judgements used by investigation and Deloitte & Touche LLP Australias findings, in reaching management were appropriate.
The committee has also ensured the conclusion no further amounts are payable under the share purchase that the related disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts agreement for CIE, and it has reversed the liability on this basis together were appropriate.
with fide-recognising the non-controlling interest.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 42 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Corporate Governance continued issue review Accounting for acquisitions and disposals Options under the group sold its investments in Capital NET and Capital DATA The committee has satisfied itself on the appropriateness of the for a combined consideration of $85.0m, which included a 15.5% minority key accounting judgements relating to the Dealogic acquisition stake in Dealogic, for $59.2m.
The following key accounting judgements through discussion with management, review of the acquisition were made: board papers as well as the work undertaken by the external auditor and reported at the audit committee meetings.
that the disposal and subsequent acquisition had commercial substance, meaning that a gain on disposal should be recognised: The committee reviewed the inputs and assumptions into the this investment has been equity accounted as an associate under IAS 28 calculation of the acquisition commitments liability at year end.
by virtue of the groups significant influence conveyed by its 20% voting rights and board representation: and the calculation of the 48.4m profit on disposal of Capital NET and Capital DATA.
The group also has acquisition commitments on previous acquisitions.
Goodwill and other intangibles The group has goodwill of 382.0m and other intangible assets of 141.8m.
The committee has considered the assessments made in relation As a result of the impairment review at the half year and year end, the group to the impairment of goodwill.
The committee discussed the recognised impairment charges for CIE of 2.9m, HedgeFund Intelligence methodology around the inputs into the model supporting the HFI of 4.8m and Mining Indaba of 10.7m.
The committee reviewed those businesses where headroom has decreased or where management has identified A sensitivity analysis for NDR has been included as further disclosures are impairments, including CIE, HFI and Mining Indaba.
required under IAS 36 if any reasonably possible change to a key assumption would cause the cash generating units carrying amount to exceed its The committee has also understood the sensitivity analysis used by recoverable amount.
management in its review and disclosure of impairment.
taxation The group is a multi-national group with tax affairs in many geographical The committee discussed the deferred tax balances and the locations.
This inherently leads to higher complexity to the groups tax structure provision for uncertain tax positions with the external auditor and makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
and management to establish how they were determined and calculated.
The chairman of the audit committee also attends the tax and treasury committee which provides valuable insight into the tax matters, related provisions and helps establish the appropriateness of the recognition of the deferred tax balances.
share-based payments Options under the groups long-term incentive schemes, CAP 2014 and CSOP The committee concluded that the groups reversal of the 2014, were granted in 2014.
The fair value calculated using an appropriate cumulative CAP 2014 charge was appropriate based on the latest option pricing model at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis forecasts and that subsequent trading in the second half had not over the expected vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of significantly improved.
shares that will eventually vest.
The final award is subject to a number of performance tests which may change the number of shares that will vest.
At the half year, management reversed the cumulative CAP 2014 charge of 2.5m through the Income Statement as the latest forecasts for the group did not indicate that the required profit target would be met in 2017. significant provisions and accruals The group continues to recognise significant provisions and accruals including The committee discussed with management and the external a provision for the impairment of trade receivables and property-related auditor the methods used to determine and calculate the provision provisions.
They also discussed matters not provided against to establish if this was appropriate.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance corPorAte GoverNANce Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 issue review Presentation of the financial statements Presentation of the financial statements, in particular the presentation of the The committee reviewed the financial statements and discussed adjusted performance and the adjusting items.
with management and the external auditor the appropriateness of the adjusted items including consideration of their consistency and the avoidance of any misleading effect on the financial statements.
The committee is satisfied that all issues have been addressed appropriately and in accordance with the relevant accounting standards and principles.
The committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
As part of its role in ensuring effectiveness, External auditor Effectiveness of internal financial the committee reviewed PwCs audit plan to control systems As a result of the tender performed in 2014, ensure its appropriateness for the group and The committee invests time in meeting with shareholders approved the appointment of has completed a review which focussed on the internal audit to better understand their work  LLP PwC as the effectiveness, independence and objectivity and its outcome.
At each meeting of the companys new statutory auditor at the 2015 of the external audit.
The assessment of the committee internal audit present a detailed AGM.
To ensure a smooth handover process effectiveness is based on a framework setting report covering controls audited since the last from Deloitte LLP, the previous statutory auditor, out the key areas of the audit process for the meeting, matters identified and updates to PwC shadowed Deloitte LLP through areas committee to consider, as well as the role that any previous control issues still outstanding.
of the 2014 year end process, giving them a management has contributed to an effective The committee challenges internal audit and good understanding of the business.
As this is PwCs first year, the committee discusses these audits and matters identified the year, PwC underwent a thorough induction was only able to assess their work up until the as appropriate.
Internal audit supplement process to enhance their understanding of the end of the financial period and not the year end their work through a series of peer reviews business, including meetings with executives, audit itself.
However, the period included the completed by finance people across the group members of the finance function and divisional interim reporting cycle.
Results from tailored but independent from the business being directors, lead partner visits to the New York questionnaires sent to the chairman of the audited.
The peer reviews audit the operation and Montreal offices, process walk-throughs audit committee, finance director, deputy of key internal controls which have been of their in-scope businesses and mobilisation finance director, and divisional finance directors confirmed by the businesses as in place through of their global audit teams.
The company and were discussed by the audit committee and no an annual control standards sign-off.
Internal PwC have adopted an approach encouraging significant issues were raised by the assessment.
audit review the findings of this supplemental open communication on current matters as and PwC confirmed to the committee that they work and present a summary to the committee when they arise.
maintained appropriate internal safeguards to at each audit committee meeting.
This is ensure their independence and objectivity.
The challenged by the committee and discussed as committee recommends the reappointment of necessary.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 44 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Corporate Governance continued the groups overall risk assessment Resources available to internal audit Non-audit work and its effectiveness approach and methodology, including: The audit committee completes an annual The audit committee monitors the level and skill the groups capability to identify and assessment of the type of non-audit work base available to the group from internal audit.
manage new risk types: permissible and a fide minimis level of nonAlthough internal audit areas are planned a the groups procedures for detecting audit fees acceptable.
Any non-audit work year ahead, the amount of time available to the fraud and for the prevention of bribery: performed outside this remit is assessed and group from internal audit is not fixed.
Internal and where appropriate approved by the committee.
audit is able to scale up resource as required the adequacy and security of the groups Fees paid to PwC for audit services, auditand draws on finance people across the wider speak-up arrangements: related services and other non-audit services DMGT group as well as regularly supplementing the principal risks and uncertainties are set out in note 4.
During 2015, PwC did its team through the use of specialists.
disclosure and other relevant risk not provide .
The management disclosures for inclusion in groups non-audit fee policy is available on the The committee is able to monitor the the annual report.
effectiveness of internal audit through its The committee also advises the board on involvement in their focus, planning, process Risk CommiTTee current risk exposures of the group, future Committee composition and outcome.
The committee approves the risk mitigation strategies and the overall risk The risk committee comprises CHC Fordham internal audit plan and any revision to it during appetite and tolerance.
chairman, PR Ensor, CR Jones, DP Pritchard the year.
The chair of the committee is invited independent, ST Hardie chief risk officer and to attend the initial internal audit planning ANNuAl RePoRT ANd ACCouNTs C Chapman general counsel and company meeting with management.
Internal audit The directors have responsibility for preparing secretary to DMGT.
One of the six members present, at each audit committee meeting, a the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and for is an independent non-executive director.
summary of its work and findings, the results of making certain confirmations concerning it.
In PR Ensor retired on September 30 2015 and the internal audit teams follow up of completed accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the A Rashbass was appointed chairman of the reviews and a summary of assurance work board considers that, taken as a whole, it is committee with effect from October 1 2015. completed by other audit functions within the fair, balanced and understandable and provides business: technology audits: circulation audits: the information necessary for shareholders to Responsibilities polls and awards audits and peer reviews as assess the companys performance, business The committee meets at least three times a year explained above.
Internal audit are involved model and strategy.
The board reached this and is responsible for review and consideration of: in other risk assurance projects including fraud conclusion after receiving advice from the audit investigation, the annual fraud and bribery risk the risks which the committee believes committee.
assessment, information security and business are those most pertinent to the group continuity.
Internal audit are also subject to and its subsidiaries including emerging or an external review every five years, the results potential future risks and their likely impact of which are fed back to the committee.
on the group: This external review was last carried out in the impact of those risks and proposed September 2013. remedial actions where appropriate: the group risk register and risk registers from each operating business including the applicable controls: reports on any material risk incidents and the adequacy of proposed action including managements responsiveness to the findings: 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance corPorAte GoverNANce Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 sTATemeNT by The diReCToRs oN ComPliANCe WiTh The Code The Listing Rules require the board to report on compliance throughout the accounting year with the provisions of the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Since its formation in 1969, the company has had a majority shareholder, Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
As majority shareholder, DMGT retains two non-executive positions on the board.
These non-executive directors are not regarded as independent under the Code.
In addition, the companys founder, president and ex-chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant, remains on the board but is not regarded as an independent director under the Code.
As a result, the company failed to comply throughout the financial year ended September 30 2015 with certain provisions of the Code as set out below.
Following the changes to the board announced on November 19 2015 it is the Companys intention that the board will comprise two executive directors the CEO and finance director and eight non-executive directors, four of whom will be independent.
The board believes that these changes will allow for more effective management of the group including clearer delineation of responsibilities between the board and the executive management team.
It will also bring the company more in line with the Code.
ProvisioN code PriNciPle exPlANAtioN of NoN-comPliANce A.
3.1 Appointment of the The appointment of A Rashbass on October 1 2015 as executive chairman and then JC Botts on chairman November 18 2015 as interim non-executive chairman did not meet the Codes Independence criteria.
The company is undertaking a search for an independent non-executive chairman and intends to be compliant in the near term.
4.1 Composition of the board The board has not identified a senior independent director.
JC Botts, although not independent due to his length of service, acts as senior non-executive director.
1.2 Composition of the board Less than half the board are independent non-executive directors.
However, there are clear divisions of responsibility within the board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The company will be compliant in relation to the reduced number of executive directors following the AGM and aims to be more in line with best practice in the near term in relation to the number of independent directors.
2.1 Composition of the The nominations committee does not comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors.
nominations committee The committee comprises four non-executive and two executive directors, none of whom are considered independent under the Code.
3.2 Terms and conditions of JC Botts, DP Pritchard, ART Ballingal and TP Hillgarth have terms and conditions of appointment.
appointment of However, The Viscount Rothermere, MWH Morgan and Sir Patrick Sergeant operate under the terms of their employment contracts with DMGT and Euromoney respectively.
non-executive directors C. 3.1 Composition of the audit The audit committee does not comprise at least three independent non-executives directors.
The committee comprises four members, only two of whom are considered independent under the committee Code.
C. 3.2 Risk committee approach The risk committee does not comprise of at least three independent non-executive directors.
The committee comprises six members, only one of whom is considered independent under the Code.
As explained on page 44 the role and responsibilities of the risk committee, including its membership, are considered appropriate and well suited to reviewing the companys risk management approach.
The risk committee and the audit committee work collaboratively to ensure that the principles of the Code are achieved within this structure.
D. 2.1 Composition of the The remuneration committee does not comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
The committee comprises three non-executive directors, only one of whom is considered remuneration committee independent under the Code.
JC Botts is the chairman of the remuneration committee and following the board changes on November 18 2015 is now the interim chairman of the company.
The company is undertaking a search for a new independent chairman and on appointment will ensure JC Botts appointment to the committee is once again compliant.
On behalf of the board ColiN JoNes Director December 14 2015 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8
