60 Governance Board of directors Board of directors Don Robert Brian Cassin Lloyd Pitchford Chairman 55 Chief Executive Officer 47 Chief Financial Officer 43 Appointed to the Board: 6 July 2006 Appointed to the Board: 30 April 2012 Appointed to the Board: 1 October 2014 Appointed as Chairman: 16 July 2014 Appointed as Chief Executive Officer: Other current roles: None 16 July 2014 Other current roles: Non-executive director Previous roles: Chief Financial Officer Compass Group PLC.
Member of Court Bank Other current roles: None Intertek Group plc.
Senior finance positions of England.
Director and trustee National including Group Financial Controller BG Previous roles: Chief Financial Officer Education and Employer Partnership Taskforce Group plc.
Financial and commercial roles Experian.
Managing Director Greenhill & Co. Mobil Oil Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer Senior roles Baring Brothers International, Experian.
Chief Executive Officer Experian London Stock Exchange Key skills and experience: A qualified North America.
Various senior roles The First accountant holding an MBA, with deep Key skills and experience: Exemplary American Corporation, US Bancorp.
President financial knowledge and considerable operational performance and contribution Credco, Inc. Director former GUS plc.
Chairman experience, built up through a career working to the Board.
A broad range of operational Consumer Data Industry Association.
Trustee in complex, multinational organisations.
competencies, including clear leadership and Sage Hill School, California Has held a wide portfolio of finance and strong, decisive management skills, coupled operational responsibilities during his Key skills and experience: Record of with deep commercial acumen and a firm career, helping to deliver significant growth performance and of increasing shareholder grasp of strategic objectives in financial performance value, and highly regarded by stakeholders.
Has the right balance of competencies and the necessary experience to provide Experian with the leadership it requires in the next phase of its growth and development Kerry Williams Fabiola Arredondo Jan Babiak Chief Operating Officer 53 Non-executive director 48 Non-executive director 57 Appointed to the Board: 16 July 2014 Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2007 Appointed to the Board: 29 April 2014 Other current roles: Board member Other current roles: Managing Partner Other current roles: Non-executive director Institute for Intergovernmental Research Siempre Holdings.
Non-executive director and Audit Committee Chairman Walgreens Burberry Group plc, Rodale, Inc. the World Boots Alliance.
Non-executive director Bank Previous roles: Group President Experian Wildlife Fund, Sesame Workshop, NPR of Montreal.
Council Member Institute of Global Credit Services and Latin America.
National Public Radio Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Group President Credit Services and Decision Analytics, Experian North America.
Previous roles: Senior operating positions Previous roles: Managing Partner and President ERisk Holdings Incorporated.
Yahoo!, the BBC, Bertelsmann AG.
NonExecutive Board-level roles Ernst & Young.
NonSenior Vice President General Manager executive director Saks, Inc. Bankinter S. A. executive director Logica plc, Royal Mail plc Bank of America.
Senior management BOC Group plc, Intelsat Corporation Key skills and experience: Brings important positions Wells Fargo Bank Key skills and experience: Brings directly knowledge of information technology security Key skills and experience: With a broad relevant international, strategic and operational and governance, transformation and programme background in the financial services industry, experience in the technology and media management.
A qualified accountant with an and holding an MBA qualification, has immense sectors, including a senior role at a pre-eminent MBA, has excellent non-executive credentials experience and deep knowledge of Experians global internet company.
Has extensive nonand has operated globally throughout her career business across the world executive directorship experience at leading international organisations and qualifications including an MBA Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Governance Board of directors 61 Roger Davis Alan Jebson Deirdre Mahlan Non-executive director 58 Non-executive director 65 Non-executive director 52 Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2007 Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2007 Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2012 Other current roles: Chairman Experian plc Retiring from the Board: 22 July 2015 Other current roles: Chief Financial Remuneration Committee.
Chairman Gem Officer Diageo plc.
Chairman Experian plc Other current roles: None Diamonds Limited, Sainsburys Bank Audit Committee Previous roles: Chairman Experian plc Previous roles: Chairman Cabot Credit Previous roles: Deputy Chief Financial Audit Committee.
Chief Executive Officer Barclays Officer, Head of Tax and Treasury Diageo plc.
Officer, Group Chief Information Officer UK banking operation.
Board member Barclays Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer HSBC Holdings plc.
Various roles Flemings and BZW Diageo North America.
Vice President of MacDonald Dettwiler, Vodafone Group plc Finance Diageo Guinness USA.
Various Key skills and experience: Over 20 years Key skills and experience: Information senior finance roles Joseph Seagram and experience leading and managing change at technology, global resourcing and operational Sons, Inc.  large global businesses.
Understands what background that is invaluable at a large is required to effectively manage a large Key skills and experience: A qualified global business like Experian, where issues organisation, as a result of extensive executive accountant with an MBA, with many around server technology and information and non-executive experience years experience in senior finance roles.
security are of great importance.
A qualified Currently a board member at Diageo plc, chartered accountant, with top-level nonso understands the operational challenges executive experience of a global public company George Rose Judith Sprieser Paul Walker Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-executive director 61 Non-executive director 57 Independent Director 63 Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2010 Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2010 Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2012 Other current roles: Lead Director Allstate Other current roles: Non-executive Chairman Corporation.
Non-executive director and Audit Halma plc, WANdisco plc, Perform Group Appointed as Deputy Chairman Committee Chairman InterContinental Limited.
Chair Newcastle Science City and Senior Independent Director: Exchange, Inc. Non-executive director and Partnership.
Director Entrepreneurs Forum, 16 July 2014 Remuneration Committee Chairman Reckitt Sophos Ltd Other current roles: Chairman Experian Benckiser Group plc Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer, plc Nomination and Corporate Governance Previous roles: President and Chief Executive Finance Director, Financial Controller The Sage Committee.
Non-executive director and Audit Officer Transora.
Executive Vice President, Group plc.
Non-executive director Diageo plc, Committee Chairman Genel Energy plc, Laing Food Operations, Chief Financial Officer Sara MyTravel Group plc.
Ernst & Young ORourke plc Lee Corporation.
Vice Chair Royal Ahold N. V. Key skills and experience: Spent 16 years Previous roles: Group Finance Director, Non-executive director USG Corporation, as chief executive officer of a FTSE company, Director of Finance and Treasury BAE Systems Adecco SA, Jimmy Choo PLC giving a great understanding of the challenges plc.
Senior finance positions Leyland DAF plc, Key skills and experience: Relevant of running a global business.
An economics Rover Group and finance graduate trainee at experience of providing insight into customer graduate and qualified accountant with a strong Ford.
Non-executive director National Grid decision making, and a wealth of international financial background and high-level nonplc, SAAB AB, Orange plc.
A qualified accountant and executive experience Development Advisory Board experienced non-executive director who chairs Key skills and experience: A qualified both audit and remuneration committees accountant, whose career has included highlevel finance positions, including at board level with BAE Systems plc.
Continues to hold nonexecutive positions with leading companies Company Secretary: Charles Brown FCIS Independent Auditor:  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor
