58 Governance Chairmans introduction Chairmans introduction Summary Effective corporate governance is about more than adhering to a set of rules.
It provides an appropriate control framework, within which we have developed our strategic priorities and can execute them to create long-term value for shareholders.
Don Robert Chairman I am pleased to make my first Corporate investment and acquisition risks, and Board role governance report to you as Chairman changed how we assess and allocate One of the Boards key roles is to set the of Experian, and to outline the key ways capital.
There is a defined delegation of Groups strategic aims.
The Board held its in which we applied the UK Corporate authority from the Board and an effective annual strategy session in January 2015, Governance Code principles regarding governance framework in the Group, which was part of a detailed process that the Boards role and effectiveness during within which we can accommodate these included outlining our strategic priorities the year.
adjustments to our capital allocation to the market.
These are to: focus on approach.
We also enhanced the our key strengths: deliver performance In our Annual Report 2014, we described reporting to the Board during the year, improvements: seize attractive growth important Board changes and the reasons so we can more comprehensively opportunities: drive operational efficiency for them.
Although they necessarily monitor the Groups performance.
and productivity: and rigorously optimise involved transition, the changes have capital.
You will find more detail on our gone smoothly and have energised and Board effectiveness p12 five strategic priorities in the Our enhanced the already strong Board team.
The Nomination and Corporate strategy section.
In addition, the Boards commitment to Governance Committee, under the effective corporate governance, and to chairmanship of George Rose, the Deputy We have also said that we must adapt to ensuring that the Group operates openly Chairman, continues to regularly review changing market influences, including and transparently, remains firm.
It does this from a increasing regulation.
Greater regulatory strategic, long-term perspective, to make scrutiny is here to stay and, while it has the Of course, no organisation can stand still sure we have the most appropriate Board potential to generate revenue opportunities, from a governance perspective, so we composition, as well as considering talent the Board is mindful of its role in ensuring review and develop our structures and management and succession planning that the Group has appropriate governance processes, both to meet the UK Corporate below Board level.
For example, our Governance Codes continuously evolving UK business is preparing to apply for full best practice recommendations and My priorities this year as Chairman included authorisation by the UK Financial Conduct because it is the right thing to do for our the inductions for our new Chief Financial Authority.
In the USA, the Consumer business.
In this Corporate governance Officer, Lloyd Pitchford, Chief Operating Financial Protection Bureau oversees our report, we provide some insight into the Officer, Kerry Williams, and independent business and the Board receives an update Groups governance framework, the key non-executive director, Jan Babiak.
Kerry at every meeting in relation to the rapidly activities of the Board and its committees already has immense experience and evolving regulatory landscape.
during the year, how we have engaged with knowledge of Experians business, meaning investors including the important role of that much of his induction was focused on The Board is also tasked with ensuring our Deputy Chairman, George Rose and the listed-company aspect of his new role.
that the Group has the financial resources the Groups risk management and internal Lloyd and Jan undertook a comprehensive to meet its strategic aims.
We also provide an induction programme during the year, measures that form part of our strategic update on the tender of the ex ternal audit.
which also included presentations on all priorities include making the business as key aspects of Experians operations.
We efficient as possible and generating good provide more detail on Board induction, investment returns.
To achieve this, as p38 training and ongoing interaction with the outlined in the Financial review, we have business later in this report.
deployed new methodologies to assess
