62 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Governance framework Board Group Operating Committee Delegated committees authority flow The Committee comprises the most senior executives from the Group.
Its remit includes Board Audit identifying, debating and achieving consensus Committee See Board section on issues involving strategy, growth, people which follows.
See Audit and culture, and operational efficiency.
focuses on ensuring strong communication and p74 co-operative working relationships among the top team.
Its meetings tend to be issues oriented and focus on selected Group issues worthy Principal subsidiaries of debate.
These are Group companies to which the Board has delegated certain Strategic project committees decision-making powers, global and regional for example implementing Remuneration These committees comprise the most senior global decisions agreed in Committee and regional executives.
Their remit is to oversee principle by the Board: See Remuneration a process to ensure that all strategic projects executive management Committee report.
are appropriately resourced, risk assessed and of the operations of the commercially, financially and technically appraised.
Group within the strategy p78 and budget approved by Depending on the outcome of the discussions, the the Board: acquisitions committees conclusions are then considered by the and disposals with a value relevant Group company for approval.
up to US$20m, and capital expenditure projects.
Risk management committees executive, regional and global operations Nomination The Executive Risk Management Committee and Corporate comprises senior Group executives, including the Governance executive directors and the Company Secretary.
Its Executive Committee primary responsibility is to oversee the management management team of global risks.
The regional risk committees oversee See Nomination the management of regional risks, consistent with and Corporate Experians risk appetite, strategies and objectives.
Governance Global operational risks, including technology and Committee report.
project risks, are monitored by the Global Operations Operating businesses p72 Risk Management Committee.
Internal Audit Global Delegated Authorities Matrix Internal Audit conducts a range of independent audit reviews throughout the Group during the This key document comprises the schedule of matters reserved year and is represented at each Audit Committee to the Board, the Board committees terms of reference and meeting.
Internal Audits plans, results and the authority levels for the Groups principal subsidiaries, key findings are presented to and discussed directors and senior executives.
For matters not reserved to with the Audit Committee.
The internal audit the Board, the matrix prescribes the cascade of authorities programme and methodology are aligned to the delegated throughout the Group by respective Group risk categories and risk assessment parameters companies, together with their monetary limits.
The matrix is established by the global risk management reviewed and refreshed regularly and the Board monitors the function.
It also makes use of risk assessment exercise of delegations to the Groups principal subsidiaries, information at a business level, in planning and which are reported to it at each Board meeting.
matrices are also in place.
