68 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Investors and analysts the executive The 2015 AGM will take place on Relations with shareholders team has an ongoing programme of dialogue Wednesday 22 July 2015.
Shareholders and others and meetings with institutional investors and are encouraged to attend and to use the Set out below are some of the ways analysts, at which they discuss a wide range opportunity to ask questions.
However, in which the Company interacts with of issues including strategy, performance, if it is not practical for shareholders to investors and others, and keeps abreast management and governance, within the attend, we encourage them to use proxy of their views: constraints of information already made voting on the resolutions put forward, all Board an investor relations and media public.
The announcements of the annual of which with the exception of procedural report is circulated before every Board and half-year results and trading updates resolutions are taken by a poll.
In 2014, meeting, and contains a commentary on provide opportunities for the Company to voting levels at the AGM were 69.3% of the the investment communitys perception of answer questions from analysts, covering a Companys issued share capital, compared the Company, media reports, share price wide range of topics.
with 67.7% in 2013. performance and analysis.
Shareholders Investor roadshows took place during the Private shareholders the Company views are also assessed in detail via an year in London, Edinburgh, Boston and Secretary, Charles Brown, oversees investor survey, which is normally conducted New York.
In January 2015, a seminar for communication with private shareholders.
every two years using a third-party supplier.
analysts and institutional investors was The Company issues a Shareholder The results of the latest survey were held in London, at which senior executives Questions card each year, with the AGM presented to the Board at the May 2015 provided updates on the Groups strategic documentation.
Mr Brown ensures that Board meeting.
direction and detailed information on the Company responds to shareholders the Groups five strategic priorities.
The directly, as appropriate, either at or Engagement with investors this seminar was chaired by Brian Cassin, following the meeting.
year, Roger Davis, as chairman of the the Chief Executive Officer, and included Remuneration Committee, consulted Website the Companys website was presentations on Credit Services, major investors and others in relation to updated during the year, in terms of Marketing Services, Consumer Services, future remuneration arrangements and the design, content and ease of use, and is Brazil and the Groups capital framework, proposed renewal of long-term incentive an important channel for communicating as well as the opportunities for growth in plans.
At the time his appointment as with shareholders.
All material information the health vertical and fraud and identity.
Deputy Chairman was approved in January reported to the regulatory news services 2014, some investors expressed an interest Annual General Meeting this important is published there, together with in meeting with George Rose once he event provides a valuable opportunity copies of annual and half-year results had been in the role for a period of time.
for the Board to communicate with announcements and trading updates.
These requests were followed up and, shareholders and to meet them informally during the year, George engaged with and Investor relations app this contains before the main business of the meeting.
met investors to discuss a wide range of information on our financial performance, All directors attended the 2014 AGM, issues including corporate governance, together with reports, presentations and including the Audit, Remuneration, and remuneration and risk.
Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee chairmen.
Experian plc website The Experian plc website www.
com contains additional information on our corporate governance.
There you will find: Terms of reference of the principal Board committees The schedule of matters reserved to the Board The Companys memorandum and articles of association Details of AGM proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld Schedule of responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
