74 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Deirdre Mahlan Chairman Current members Deirdre Mahlan Chairman George Rose Fabiola Arredondo Paul Walker Jan Babiak Roger Davis Alan Jebson I became Chairman of the Committee in January 2015, and I am delighted to make my first report to shareholders.
I would like to thank my predecessor, Alan Jebson, for his contribution and excellent leadership of the Committee while he was Chairman.
I believe the Committee operates very effectively, and this is down to Alans excellent work over the years.
This report describes how the Committee discharged its duties in the past year.
It also provides: details of the significant issues the Committee considered in relation to the financial statements and how these were addressed: an update on what we are doing on tendering the external audit: and some interesting detail on how the Committee concluded that the Annual Report 2014 was fair, balanced and understandable, which I hope you will find useful.
We met four times as a Committee during the year, with the meetings timed to coincide with key dates in the Groups financial reporting and audit cycle.
The list of Committee members appears above, and the Board considers all of them to be independent non-executive directors, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As well as Committee members, the Chairman and other Board members also attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Group General Counsel, Head of Group Internal Audit and representatives from  LLP, including the lead audit partner, also attend Committee meetings.
We also meet, as a Committee, with  LLP and the Head of Group Internal Audit without management present.
Our overarching objectives include ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, that any judgments made are appropriate, that the external auditor is effective in its role, and being robust in ensuring that we have an effective internal control framework, to manage the risks Experian faces.
I consider that the Committee members collective international experience enables them to act effectively in these areas.
All Committee members are considered to be appropriately experienced, but Deirdre Mahlan, Jan Babiak and George Rose are considered to have significant, relevant and recent financial experience, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
Governance Corporate governance report 75 reviewed and approved the annual In recent years, there has been much Committees key roles internal audit plan and, in September activity within the European Commission, and responsibilities 2014, reviewed the conclusions of an the UK Competition & Markets Authority Monitoring the integrity of the financial external evaluation of internal audit.
and the FRC regarding changes to the statements and reviewing significant audit market.
The Audit Committee has Reviewing a variety of reports on risk, financial reporting judgments received a number of briefings from including updates on risk management, contained in them.
management on the changes, including material litigation, information security, Reviewing internal financial controls considerations around audit tendering.
and the Groups internal control and Reviewing fraud and confidential risk management systems.
In March 2015, the Audit Committee helpline updates, in September 2014 concluded that the provision of external Reviewing the effectiveness of the audit and March 2015. audit services should be tendered during process and the independence and Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups the year ended 31 March 2016, with the objectivity of the external auditor.
system of risk management and internal appointed external auditor to be in place Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness control, including financial, operational, to conduct the audit for the year ended of the internal audit function.
This will ensure: Developing and implementing policy on Debating and approving the Groups good corporate governance: engaging the external auditor to supply treasury policy.
that the external auditors services non-audit services, taking into account Approving the Committees annual remain of the highest quality: and relevant guidance.
meeting schedule and reviewing the compliance with the UK Corporate Approving the external auditors Committees terms of reference and Governance Codes recommendation remuneration and terms of engagement, recommending some changes to the that the external audit contract is and making recommendations about Board for approval.
tendered at least every ten years.
Reviewing the Annual Report 2014 The Audit Committee also agreed the Committee activities to ensure it was fair, balanced tender process, which has commenced, The Committees key activities during the and understandable and provided and the result of the tender will be year ended 31 March 2015 included: information necessary to assess disclosed in due course.
performance, business model and Reviewing the 2014 preliminary and 2015 strategy.
See further details later in Effectiveness, independence half-year results announcements and this section.
and re-appointment the Annual Report 2014: impairment Discussing regular updates on the As part of assessing the effectiveness of the papers, prepared in accordance European Commission, UK Competition audit process, the Audit Committee reviews with IAS 36: and papers supporting & Markets Authority and the FRCs the annual audit plan each September.
Then, the preparation of relevant financial activity regarding changes to the audit in March and April May, it receives detailed statements on a going concern basis.
market, and considering what the Group updates on the audits progress, which include For more information on the matters should do in terms of tendering the details of the external auditors actions, such as considered in relation to the going external audit.
the audit procedures undertaken, the audits concern assessment, please see note 2 Reviewing, discussing and agreeing coverage of revenue and EBIT, the locations to the Group financial statements.
the approach to the September visited and the status of any significant findings.
Discussing and concluding on the 2014 updates to the UK Corporate These updates give the Committee an 2015 audit plan with the external Governance Code, specifically in relation insight into the audit process.
The plan included the external to monitoring risk management and auditors response to developments Finally, at the September meeting, the control systems, assessing the Groups in the business during the year, Committee receives an evaluation report on prospects and assessing principal developments in the audit process, the the external auditor.
This year, the evaluation risks.
The Groups position in relation risk assessment of the Group and the was done by issuing tailored questionnaires to the changes, and any enhancements scope and coverage of the audit.
to the non-executive directors, executive required, were discussed.
directors, senior finance leadership and Considering an update from the senior governance leadership.
These external auditor on the audit process, External auditor included questions on the quality of the namely details of the audits status, Tenure and tendering audit process, in terms of its coverage, key matters arising from the audit  LLP have been the quality of delivery and the quality of and assessments of managements the Companys auditor since the Group the external audit team.
The Committee judgments on them, reviewing the was demerged from the former GUS plc concluded, based on this feedback and content of the independence letter and in October 2006.
The next rotation of lead information it obtained during the course the management representation letter, audit engagement partner is scheduled to of its other work, that the external auditor as well as engagement terms.
take place following the conclusion of the was performing effectively.
As part of the Reviewing and discussing an update audit for the year ended 31 March 2016. evaluation, the Committee also reviewed the from the Head of Group Internal Audit at There are currently no contractual FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, and each Committee meeting.
The Committee obligations restricting the Companys concluded that the Group and the auditor received details of the audit strategy, choice of external auditor.
had complied with the guidance.
76 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Independence is an important element of Based on the outcome of the evaluation financial limits above which the Chairman the external audit.
The Committee monitors of the external auditor, the reports on the of the Audit Committee must approve any this during the year, by reviewing potential audit process that the Committee reviewed proposed non-audit services.
threats to independence and the associated and the conclusion that the external auditor The Committee receives half-yearly reports safeguards.
These safeguards include and the Group had complied with the detailing non-audit assignments carried assessing the relationship between the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, the out by the external audit firm, together with external auditor and Experian, avoiding Committee recommended to the Board the related fees.
Non-audit fees paid to the contingent fee arrangements, ensuring for shareholder approval that the external Companys auditor are capped at 100% of that non-audit services fall within agreed auditor be re-appointed.
the fees for audit and assurance services, monetary limits and requiring the external Non-audit services except in exceptional circumstances.
An auditor to consider the potential impact of  LLP provides analysis of fees paid to the external auditor non-audit services on their audit services.
a range of other services to Experian, for the year ended 31 March 2015 is set out Other safeguards are the rotation of the which include tax compliance and in note 12 to the Group financial statements.
lead audit engagement partner and the advisory services.
To ensure auditor use of separate teams, where appropriate.
objectivity and independence, the The Committee concluded that the external Company has a policy in relation to auditor had maintained independence providing such services, which includes throughout the year.
Significant issues The table below summarises the significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the Group and Company financial statements and the manner in which they were addressed.
These matters, along with any other key issues covered by the Committee, are reported to the Board.
The Board also receives copies of the minutes of each Audit Committee meeting.
Matter considered Conclusion Impairment review A summary of the impairment analysis and underlying The Committee concurred with managements conclusion that no process was provided to the Committee.
The Committee impairment of goodwill was required.
scrutinised the methodology applied by management and The Committee noted the reduced headroom and the sensitivity to reviewed the cost allocation policies applied.
The analysis changes in assumptions and concurred with the proposed disclosure showed that the headroom within the Asia Pacific and of these in the Group financial statements.
EMEA cash generating units CGUs had declined during the year, but that there was still headroom in these CGUs.
Tax The Committee received an update from management on The Committee agreed that the assessment of the tax provision was the adequacy of provisions in respect of significant open tax appropriate and that the judgment taken in respect of the year-end matters across its principal locations.
The review included provision was reasonable.
details of ongoing correspondence with the UK and Brazil The Committee noted the evolving and complex tax laws that applied to tax authorities and the principal areas of tax challenge.
the Group and the uncertainty that these might bring.
It concluded that the proposed enhanced Group tax risk disclosures were appropriate.
Brazil litigation An update was provided to the Committee on the litigation The Committee reviewed and agreed the contingency disclosure in Brazil relating to the use of credit scores.
The Committee proposed in note 41 to the Group financial statements.
noted the decision by the Superior Tribunal of Justice in Brazil which ruled that scores are legal and that the cases against Serasa had no merit under Brazilian law.
The Committee reviewed the progress made in resolving the significant number of open cases.
Other litigation and regulatory matters The Committee received an analysis of the open litigation The Committee concluded that these matters had been appropriately and regulatory matters affecting the Group, and the provided for at 31 March 2015. associated financial reporting considerations.
The Committee considered and concurred with the proposed contingent liability disclosures included in the Group financial statements.
Governance Corporate governance report 77 Fair, balanced and understandable what did we do?
At its May meeting, the Committee is asked to consider, in In advance of its May meeting, the Audit Committee receives a line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, whether, in its near-final draft of the Annual Report, together with a reminder opinion, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable of the areas to focus on.
The FBU committees observations FBU and whether it provides the information necessary for and conclusions are also relayed to the Committee.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Following its review this year, the Audit Committee model and strategy.
A process to support the Audit Committee concluded that it was appropriate to recommend to the in making this assessment was put in place in 2013, and we also Board that the Annual Report 2015 was fair, balanced and use a similar process for the Groups half-yearly financial report.
understandable, and provided the information necessary for The main elements of the process are: shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business The Audit Committee was appraised of the new requirement, model and strategy, and the FBU statement appears in the introduced by the FRC in 2012, and the Board confirmed that Directors report.
it required advice annually from the Committee on making the The key areas to focus on include ensuring that: required statement.
The Committees terms of reference were amended to reflect its new responsibility.
The overall message of the narrative reporting is consistent with the primary financial statements.
The management team responsible for drafting the Annual Report is briefed on the requirement, including by the The overall message of the narrative reporting is appropriate, external auditor.
in the context of the industry as a whole and the wider economic environment.
A list of key areas to focus on see below is circulated to the management team, who are asked to consider these areas in The Annual Report is consistent with messages already their drafting.
communicated to investors, analysts and other stakeholders.
Ahead of its March meeting, the Audit Committee receives: The Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced drafts of a large number of the Strategic report components of and understandable.
the Annual Report: draft governance material: a summary of the The Chairman and Chief Executive Officers statements key features of the Group financial statements: papers on the include a balanced view of the Groups performance and appropriateness of accounting policies and impairment reviews: prospects, and of the industry and market as a whole.
and a paper from the external auditor.
Any summaries or highlights capture the big picture of the An internal FBU committee then considers the Annual Report.
A wide range of functions are represented on this committee, including executives from finance, communications, investor Case studies or examples are of strategic importance and relations, legal and corporate secretariat.
The external auditor do not over-emphasise immaterial matters.
Policy on the provision of non-audit services This policy has not changed during the year and remains appropriate for the Group.
Provided that the provision of non-audit services does not conflict with the external auditors statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance, they may provide the following types of services: Further assurance services: where the external auditors deep knowledge of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed to carry out such work.
This may include, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, regulatory reports and work in connection with acquisitions and divestments.
Tax services: where the external auditors knowledge of the Groups affairs may provide significant advantages, which other parties would not have.
Where this is not the case, the work is put out to tender.
General: in other circumstances, the external auditor may provide services provided that proposed assignments are put out to tender and decisions to award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
However, the external auditor is specifically prohibited from performing work related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately be subject to external audit: management of or significant involvement in internal audit services: any work that could compromise the external auditors independence: and any other work that is prohibited by UK ethical guidance.
