72 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued NOMINATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT George Rose Chairman Current members George Rose Chairman Alan Jebson Don Robert Deirdre Mahlan Fabiola Arredondo Judith Sprieser Jan Babiak Paul Walker Roger Davis I became Chairman of the Committee following Sir Alan Rudges retirement at the conclusion of the AGM in July 2014, and I am pleased to be reporting to shareholders on our activities during the year.
Together with the appointment of Lloyd Pitchford, our new Chief Financial Officer, in October 2014, the past year has marked the end of an extremely busy period for the Committee, in terms of the recent Board changes.
As Don remarked earlier, we are pleased with how the changes have gone, and believe the new leadership team has got off to a great start in terms of defining the strategic priorities for our business.
Notwithstanding the successful conclusion of these Board changes, it remained a busy year for the Committee.
We continued to monitor the Boards composition, in the context of the opportunities and challenges that the business faces, and also given that some Board members will naturally come to the end of their terms in the coming years.
We spent time during the year specifically considering the recruitment of a new non-executive director, and the key attributes that would be required for the Board considering the current opportunities and challenges for Experian.
To help with these deliberations, I have ensured as Chairman that the Committee receives a standing paper for each meeting, giving a strategic view of the current Board composition and future considerations, to help ensure appropriate Board composition and smooth transitions when they do occur.
We have also continued to focus on the executive talent pool and, in March 2015, received a comprehensive executive succession and talent management update from the Group Human Resources Director and the Global Talent Director.
Further details appear on the next page.
We met six times during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Of the nine Committee members, eight including me as Committee Chairman are considered to be independent non-executive directors, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Group Human Resources Director and the Director of Investor Relations and Communications are invited to attend certain meetings, as is the Chief Executive Officer, Brian Cassin, to provide valuable insight.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
Governance Corporate governance report 73 Considered an AGM briefing from the although the Company did not publish a Committees key roles Company Secretary, including voting specific target, it is pleasing to note that and responsibilities results and shareholder feedback.
this is ahead of the recommended target The Board strongly believes that good set by Lord Davies in his 2011 Women on Recommended to the Board that governance and strong, responsible, Boards Report.
There are further details all directors except Alan Jebson balanced leadership by the Board are regarding diversity below Board level in see below retire at the 2015 AGM, critical to creating long-term shareholder the Our people section.
recognising the recommendation in value and business success.
As a the UK Corporate Governance Code Committee, our responsibilities include: Process for Board appointments for a rigorous review of non-executive When making Board appointments, Ensuring that appropriate procedures directors for terms greater than six years.
the Committee reviews and approves are in place for nominating, selecting, Reviewed the Committees performance an outline brief and role specification training and evaluating directors, and that and terms of reference.
and appoints a search agent for the adequate succession plans are in place.
Reviewed an update from the Company assignment.
We disclose the name of the Reviewing the Boards structure, size, Secretary on the September 2014 search agent and any other connection composition and succession needs, update to the UK Corporate Governance with Experian in the next Annual Report.
considering at all times the balance Code, which included a breakdown of The specialist search firm used in respect of membership and the Boards the new provisions and an early view of of the appointment of Jan Babiak during required balance of skills, experience, the Companys approach to each one.
the year was Lygon, who also provide independence and knowledge.
Considered the annual company law other executive search and marketIdentifying and nominating, for the update provided by the Company Secretary.
Boards approval, suitable candidates to Recommended to the Board the fill vacancies for non-executive directors Meetings are then held with the search appointment of Deirdre Mahlan as and, with the Chief Executive Officers agent to discuss the specification and Chairman of the Audit Committee, assistance, executive directors.
Board the search, following which an initial long following Alan Jebsons confirmation appointments are made on merit and list of candidates is prepared.
A short of his intention to retire from the Board against objective criteria, to ensure list is then considered by the Committee with effect from the conclusion of the the Board maintains its balance of and interviews are held.
Ultimately, the AGM in July 2015. skills, experience, independence Committee makes a recommendation to Reviewed and discussed an update and knowledge.
the Board for its consideration.
Following on the global executive succession Board approval, the appointment is Reviewing legislative, regulatory and and talent management programme, announced in line with the requirements corporate governance developments comprising an update on executive of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys and making recommendations to the succession plans, progress against Listing Rules and, in due course, a tailored Board, and ensuring that the Company the Groups talent, and diversity and induction programme is developed for the observes the standards and disclosures inclusion, plans and future focus areas.
recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Boards diversity policy This policy is unchanged, and we strongly Committee activities believe that diversity throughout the Group During the year, we: Balance of male and and at Board level is a driver of business female directors success.
We respect, value and welcome Spent a significant amount of time at 31 March 2015 diversity, including gender diversity, and reviewing Board effectiveness, seek to reflect the diversity of our client, Board governance, non-executive investor and general employee base director succession and deliberating in our Board.
We recruit talented and on the appointment of a new nondiverse Board members, who have the executive director.
appropriate mix of skills, capabilities and Discussed the actions resulting from market knowledge to ensure the Board is the 2014 external Board effectiveness effective.
When recruiting, we look across review and recommended them to the all sectors and non-traditional talent pools, Board.
Approved the broad process and we require diversity of candidates on for the internally facilitated 2015 our shortlists.
In terms of gender diversity, Board effectiveness evaluation.
Male 33% of the current Board are female and, Female
