com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction EVRAZ plc is a public company limited by shares incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The The EVRAZ Board is responsible Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and control.
for the following key aspects of governance and performance: Further information on the Companys Corporate Governance policies and principles are Financial and operational performance: available on the Companys website: www.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Strategic direction: is available at www.
Major acquisitions and disposals: Overall risk management: Compliance with corporate governance standards | EVRAZs approach to corporate Capital expenditure and operational budgeting: governance is primarily based on the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Business planning: Approval of internal regulations and Authority.
The Company complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code or, if it does not comply, explains the reasons for non-compliance.
During the year to 31 December 2015 EVRAZ complied with all the principles and During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Board provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code which is available at www.
uk with the following exceptions: considered a wide range of matters, New Provision D. 11 of the Governance Code requires that performance related remuneration including: schemes should include malus and clawback provisions.
An explanation for this nonthe Companys strategy and key priorities: compliance is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 132. the performance of key businesses: Contrary to provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Olga Pokrovskaya is a consolidated budget and budgets of member of the Audit Committee, but does not meet the independence criteria set out in the individual business units: UK Corporate Governance Code.
More than 50% of EVRAZ activities and operations are based the interim and full year results and 2014 in the Russian Federation, and Olga Pokrovskayas technical and regional experience and Annual Report: qualification, as a past senior audit manager at Arthur Andersen and as Head of Corporate HSE updates: Finance at Russian oil company Sibneft is of particular value to the Committee.
The Audit the appointment of Deborah Gudgeon as Committee includes three non-executive directors, all independent, which we believe mitigates an Independent Non-Executive Director any potential risks.
following Terry Robinsons decision to not seek re-election as a director of the Company at the 2015 Annual General Board responsibilities and performance | The Board and management of EVRAZ aim to pursue objectives in the best interests of EVRAZ, its shareholders and other stakeholders, Meeting: a review of investment projects: and particularly to create long-term value for shareholders.
changes to the composition of the various Board Committees: the return of capital to shareholders by Chairman and Chief Executive way of a tender offer: corporate governance matters including a The Board determines the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief review of the Board and Committees: and Executive Officer.
amendments to the Board Committees terms of reference.
The Chairmans principal responsibility is the effective running of the Board, ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The Board is chaired by Alexander Abramov.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 111 Governance The Chief Executive Officer CEO is responsible for leading the Groups operating Membership of the executive team is performance and day-to-day management of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Companys chief executive is Alexander Frolov.
The CEO is supported by the executive team.
Meetings of the Board, Board composition and AGM | EVRAZ plc held 10 scheduled Board meetings and 2 ad-hoc meetings held in the form of conference calls during 2015.
In 2016, up to the date of this reports publication, 12 Board meetings were held.
Members of senior management attended meetings of the Board by invitation.
They delivered presentations on the status of projects and performance of the business units.
The following table sets out the attendance of each director at scheduled EVRAZ plc Board and Board Committee meetings in 2015: Board Remuneration HSE Committee Audit Committee Nominations AGM Committee Committee Total meetings 12 5 2 10 3 1 Alexander Abramov 12 12 - - - 3 3 1 Duncan Baxter 12 12 4 5 - 8 10 - 1 Alexander Frolov 12 12 - 2 2 - - 1 2 Karl Gruber 11 12 5 5 2 2 - 2 2 1 1 2 Deborah Gudgeon 9 9 - - 6 6 - 1 2 Alexander Izosimov 12 12 5 5 - 5 5 3 3 1 2 Sir Michael Peat 12 12 - - 5 5 3 3 1 Olga Pokrovskaya 12 12 - 2 2 10 10 - 1 1 1 1 1 Terry Robinson 4 4 - 1 1 5 5 1 1 1 Eugene Shvidler 10 12 - - - 3 3 0 Eugene Tenenbaum 12 12 - - - - 1 1 Deborah Gudgeon was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director and as a member of the Audit Committee on 31st March 2015 with an effective date of 1st May 2015.
Terry Robinson stepped down from the Board and from the Audit, HSE and Nominations Committees at the 2015 AGM on 18th June 2015.
2 On the 16 June 2015 the following changes were made to the composition of the Boards Committees, with an effective date 19 June 2015 : Deborah Gudgeon was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee succeeding Terry Robinson, Alexander Izosimov joined the Audit Committee, Karl Gruber joined the Nominations Committee and Sir Michael Peat stepped down from the Audit Committee.
com Board composition and independence as at 31 December 2015 Boardroom diversity, % 3 Date of appointment Years of tenure as at 31 December 2015 Independent non-executive Non-Executive Independent Directors 5 directors Duncan Baxter 14 October 2011 4 Non-executive directors Karl Gruber 14 October 2011 4 Chairman 50% 30% non-executive Alexander Izosimov 28 February 2012 3 10% Executive 10% Sir Michael Peat Senior Independent Director 14 October 2011 4 director Deborah Gudgeon 31 March 2015 0 CEO Non-Executive Directors 4 Alexander Abramov Chairman 14 October 2011 4 Olga Pokrovskaya 14 October 2011 4 Eugene Shvidler 14 October 2011 4 Eugene Tenenbaum 14 October 2011 4 Executive Director 1 Alexander Frolov CEO 14 October 2011 4 Total Board size 10 3 At EVRAZ plc, does not include tenure at Evraz Group S. A.
As at 31 December 2015, the Board comprised the Chairman, one executive director, and eight non-executive directors, including a senior independent director.
Terry Robinson retired as a director of the Company on 18th June 2015.
He has been retained as an adviser to the Board and certain Board committees subsequent to that date.
On 14 March 2016, the Board agreed that Duncan Baxter and Olga Pokrovskaya will leave the Board with immediate effect.
This change was agreed following a review of the composition of the Board.
Given the current economic climate and the fact that the company is now well-established in the UK-listed company environment, a smaller board will enable financial savings to be achieved without compromising the quality of the Groups governance.
As a result, a number of changes will be made to the Board Committees: Alexander Izosimov will assume the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee in succession to Duncan Baxter, Deborah Gudgeon and Sir Michael Peat will join the Remuneration Committee, and Karl Gruber will step down from the Remuneration Committee.
In addition, Karl Gruber will join the Audit Committee.
The Board considers that five non-executive directors Duncan Baxter, Karl Gruber, Alexander Izosimov, Sir Michael Peat and Deborah Gudgeon are independent in character and judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement, in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The independent Non-executive Directors comprise the majority on and chair all Board Committees.
The Board has also satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the independence of, or existence of conflicts of interest, for those directors who serve together as directors on the boards of outside entities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 113 Governance Boardroom diversity See the Nomination Committees report EVRAZ recognises the importance of diversity both at Board level and throughout the whole on pages 126-127. organisation.
The Company remains committed to increasing diversity across its global operations and we take diversity into account during each recruitment and appointment process, working to attract outstanding candidates with diverse backgrounds, skills, ideas and culture.
When making new appointments, the Boards stance on diversity, including gender, is to act in good faith towards meeting the recommendation contained in Lord Davies report of achieving 25% female board representation while appointing the most appropriate candidate.
To this end, female representation on the Board has been a particular area of focus for the Nominations Committee.
In light of the Boards declared stance on diversity and following Terry Robinsons decision to not seek re-election as a director of the Company at the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the Nominations Committee and the Board gave considerable thought and research to finding a successor.
As part of this process, Deborah Gudgeon was identified as a strong candidate to succeed Terry Robinson as an Independent Non-Executive Director and as chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Nominations Committee and the Board noted that Miss Gudgeon is a chartered accountant, with extensive corporate and international experience, including some experience of mining.
Deborah Gudgeon was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 31st March 2015 with an effective date of 1st May 2015.
Full details of the skills and experience With the appointment of Deborah Gudgeon, the Company believes that the Board structure of the Board members are provided in provides an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
The members comprise the Board of Directors section above on a number of different nationalities with a wide range of skills, capabilities and experience pages 104-107. from a variety of business backgrounds.
Board expertise The Board has determined that as a whole it has the appropriate skills and experience necessary to discharge its functions.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors have the experience required to contribute meaningfully to the Boards deliberations and resolutions.
Non-Executive Directors assist the board by constructively challenging and helping develop strategy proposals.
Most of the directors have been in post since the date of EVRAZ plc incorporation in October 2011.
Induction and professional development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is a properly constructed and timely induction for new directors upon joining the Board.
Directors have full access to a regular supply of financial, operational, strategic and regulatory information to help them discharge their responsibilities.
During the year, Deborah Gudgeon was appointed to the Board and her induction included visits to the Company office in Moscow and one-to-one meetings with the CEO, CFO, Group Accountant, Internal audit, the Heads of the Legal Team and of Investor Relations, among 114 www.
A meeting was also arranged with the External Auditor.
Follow-up meetings were also See also the Nominations Committee arranged as appropriate and visits to the Companys operations in the Russian Federation are report on pages 126-127. also planned.
Performance evaluation An internally facilitated Board evaluation was conducted in December 2015.
The review was carried out with the initiative and participation of the Nominations Committee of the Company.
Questionnaires were distributed to all Board directors for their response and comment.
The results were discussed at three levels: i between the members of the Nominations Committee, ii between Sir Michael Peat as chairman of the Nominations Committee and Alexander Abramov as the chairman of the Board and iii between the Board as a whole.
Board performance was deemed to be satisfactory and in overall terms the review was encouraging and useful.
The Company undertakes regular performance evaluations of the Board in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board Committees The Board is supported in its work by the following principal Committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
The table below sets out the role and composition of each Committee Function Name of Committee Composition Audit, financial reporting, Audit Committee All 4 members are nonSee pages 118-125 risk management and executive directors, of controls which 3 are independent Selection and nomination of Nominations Committee All 5 members are nonSee pages 126-127 Board members executive directors, 3 are independent Remuneration of Board Remuneration Committee All 3 members are See pages 130-141 members and top independent directors management HSE issues HSE Committee 2 of 3 members are See pages 128-129 non-executive directors, of which 1 is independent Each Committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising its role and responsibilities.
The terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website www.
Reports from each Committee please see on pages 118-141.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 115 Governance Risk management and internal control EVRAZ maintains a comprehensive financial reporting procedures FRP manual In 2015, regional Risk Committees detailing the Groups internal control and risk management systems and activity.
and business unit management teams The manual was last updated in December 2015.
In line with the Financial continued to identify, evaluate and instigate Reporting Council FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and regional risk management mitigating Related Financial and Business Reporting issued in September 2014, the aim of the actions.
Detailed risk assessments and risk risk management process is to identify, evaluate and manage potential and actual evaluations were conducted at the plant threats to the Group achieving its objectives.
and mine levels, resulting in an update of the Groups risk register.
EVRAZ Enterprise Risk Management ERM process is designed to identify, quantify, respond to and monitor the consequences of these threats.
A risk register that encompasses both internal and external critical threats has been agreed with the Risk Committee.
In 2015, regarding principal risks and uncertainties, this process was consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Guidance on the For additional information about Strategic Report issued in June 2014 and the Guidance on Risk Management, principal risks and uncertainties see Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued in September Strategic report on pages 28-31.
An important part of the risk management process is to determine the appropriate risk appetite at the EVRAZ management level, thereby identifying particular risks and uncertainties that require specific Board oversight.
The Risk Committee last reviewed the Groups risk profile in September 2015 and finalised the assessment in February 2016.
Internal control The executive management is responsible for introducing the agreed internal BOARD OF DIRECTORS controls and mitigating actions related to risk management throughout EVRAZ business and operations and at all levels of management and supervision.
This Ensuring Groups ongoing internal control process is serves to encourage a risk-conscious business culture.
adequate and effective AUDIT COMMITTEE EVRAZ applies the following core principles to the identification, monitoring and management of risk throughout the organisation: Primary oversight of internal control regime Risks are identified, documented, assessed and monitored and their profile is communicated to the relevant levels of the management team regularly.
The Supports the Audit Committee in reviewing business management team is primarily responsible for ERM and accountable for internal controls all risks assumed in the operations.
INTERNAL AUDIT The board is responsible for assessing the optimum balance of risk risk appetite through the alignment of business strategy and risk tolerance on an enterpriseSupervise and review of reports wide basis.
In addition, the board oversees risks above the Groups defined risk appetite and internal control weaknesses measured in excess of the risk appetite.
EVRAZ ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK A reporting process involving regional risk Committees, business unit Reviews of reports and effectiveness management teams and other relevant bodies at major enterprises has been established.
Its aim is to identify, evaluate and establish management actions EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE for risk mitigation at a regional level and at EVRAZ major steel and mining Reviews of reports operations.
The regional Committees are accountable to the Groups Risk and effectiveness Committee by way of membership of the latter vice presidents of business units Regional Risk Committees and functions.
or Business Units management teams All acquired businesses are brought within the Groups system of internal control Reviews of reports as soon as practicable.
and effectiveness Site level managers annual management self-assessments INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK 116 www.
com Components of the internal control system Component Basis for assurance Action in 2015 Assurance framework principal  by management at all In 2015, the internal audit function level controls to prevent and detect error major operations certified and reviewed the internal control Review of the self-assessment by the system or material fraud, ensure effectiveness of internal audit function operations and compliance with principal external and internal regulations Investment project management Monitored by established management Procedures were strengthened in regard Committee and sub-Committees to quality and reporting control and other Reviewed by internal audit elements of the project oversight process during the year Operating policies and procedures Implemented, updated and monitored by Operating policies and procedures were management updated as per the internal initiatives by Reviewed by internal audit function operational management and in response to recommendations from the internal audit function Operating budgets Monitored by controlling unit Operating budgets were prepared and Reviewed by the internal audit function approved by the board of directors Approved by the board of directors Accounting policies and procedures as per Developed and updated by reporting Accounting policies and procedures were department updated as part of the standard annual the corporate accounting manual Reviewed by the internal audit function review process The board has delegated primary oversight of the Groups internal control process to the Audit Committee.
The Committee has tabled for the consideration of the directors the major internal control findings in the areas where the Boards risk appetite has been exceeded.
To ensure that control is exercised effectively across operations, the Group has adopted annual management self-assessments of the internal control system using the EVRAZ Assurance Framework.
The management rates and certifies the individual components of the framework.
In 2015, all major production sites were certified as having effective internal control.
A department headed by Senior Vice President Leonid Kachur has specific responsibility for preventing and detecting business fraud and abuse, including fraudulent behaviour by employees, customers and suppliers that may cause a direct economic loss to the business.
Solid internal controls help to minimise the risk, and EVRAZ Business Security department ensures that appropriate processes are in place to protect the Groups interests.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 117 Governance Internal audit Internal audit is an independent appraisal function established by the board to evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, systems and procedures at EVRAZ to reduce business risks to an acceptable level and in a cost-effective manner.
The board approved the latest version of the internal audit charter on 5 March 2015.
The internal audit functions role in the Group is to provide an independent, objective, innovative, responsive and effective value-added internal audit service.
This is achieved through a systematic and disciplined approach based on assisting management in controlling risks, monitoring compliance, and improving the efficiency and effectiveness of internal control systems and governance processes.
Twice a year, the function provides an opinion of the overall effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
In 2015, EVRAZs head of internal audit, as secretary of the Audit Committee, attended all the Committees meetings and addressed any reported deficiencies in internal control as required by the Committee.
The Committee continued to engage with executive management during the year to monitor the effectiveness of internal control and accordingly considered certain deficiencies that had been identified in internal control together with managements response to such deficiencies.
The internal audit planning process starts with the Groups strategy: includes the formal risk assessment process and the identification of management concerns based on the results of previous audits: and ends with an internal audit plan, which the Audit Committee then approves.
Audit resources are predominantly allocated to areas of higher risk and, to the extent considered necessary, to financial and business controls and processes, with appropriate resource reservation for ad hoc and follow-up assignments.
In 2015, internal audit projects covered the following Group risks: Cost effectiveness Business interruption and equipment downtime management Health, safety and environment Capital projects and expenditure Treasury and working capital management Human resources Compliance EVRAZ internal audit function is structured on a regional basis, reflecting the geographic diversity of the Groups operations.
As a result, the Groups internal audit function is working to align common internal audit practices throughout the Group through quality assurance and improvement programmes.
Further information regarding EVRAZ internal control and risk management processes can be found at www.
com Audit Committee report Role and Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are delegated by the Board and set out in the written terms of reference as follows: 1 To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company including the annual and interim results and other financial announcements, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements, and to report to the Board whether the Audit Committee considers the Annual Report, as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable: 2 To review the appropriateness of accounting policies, key judgements and management estimates: 3 To assess and monitor the scope and effectiveness of and compliance with internal controls and systems, and to report to the Board on the overall standing of the Deborah Gudgeon Groups internal controls: Independent non-executive Director, Chairman of Audit Committee.
4 To review and challenge the Companys assessment of the financial and non-financial risks of the business and to present the principal risks and uncertainties and Groups Risk Register to the Board: Chairmans Statement 5 To consider the Groups risk appetite and propose the appropriate level to the Board: Dear Shareholders, 6 To review procedures for detecting, monitoring and managing the risk of fraud, bribery I am pleased to present the Audit and regulatory non-compliance: Committee Report for the financial year ended 31st December 2015.
7 To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material I was appointed Chairman on my findings and recommendations: and appointment to the Board in June 2015: at this time, Terry Robinson 8 To oversee the relationship and effectiveness of the external auditor and to make stood down as Chairman and as a recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of the external auditor.
On behalf of the Audit Committee, I would like The Audit Committee minutes are tabled at the Board meeting for consideration, and the to thank Terry for his significant Chairman reports verbally on the committee proceedings, making recommendations on contribution in the establishment of areas covered by its terms of reference if appropriate.
the Committee and over the period of his Chairmanship.
I would also During the year, the Committee members undertook a self-assessment process to consider like to thank Sir Michael Peat for his the performance and composition of the Committee, its duties and responsibilities, and contributions as a member of the access to management.
The results of this assessment were judged satisfactory.
I would also like to extend the Committee Members and Attendance thanks of the Committee to the executive and financial management The majority of Audit Committee members are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
of the Company, the internal audit As disclosed in the Governance section on pages 104-107, Olga Pokrovskaya, a nondepartment and EY, EVRAZ external Independent Non-Executive Director, continues to be a member of the Audit Committee auditor, for their continuing diligence providing additional technical expertise and valuable regional expertise.
and valued contributions to the work of the Committee.
In June 2015, Terry Robinson stood down as Chairman of the Audit Committee and retired from the Board at the AGM.
He has been replaced as Chairman by Deborah Gudgeon who Deborah Gudgeon joined the Board in May 2015.
Terry Robinson continued to be an adviser to the Committee and attended meetings until March 2016.
Sir Michael Peat also stood down from the Audit Annual Report & Accounts 2015 119 Governance Committee in June 2015 and was replaced by Alexander Izosimov.
Duncan Baxter and Olga Pokrovskaya are standing down from the Board on 14th March 2016 and they will be replaced on the Audit Committee from that date by Karl Gruber.
Senior members of the Groups finance function, the head of Group Internal Audit who acts as secretary to the Audit and the Risk Committees, and the external auditors also attend Committee meetings.
Key members of the management team were also invited to attend Committee meetings: in 2015, these included the VPs of Strategy, Steel, Coal, IT, Security, Legal, Compliance and Personnel, and the Director of Investor Relations.
Other members of the EVRAZ management team and the Internal Audit Function were also invited to attend Committee meetings as appropriate The Audit Committee met 10 times during 2015 and 3 times in early 2016 before the publication of this Annual Report.
The Group confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
Activities and Work of the Committee during 2015 During 2015, the Audit Committee focused on the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, the related internal control framework and risk management, including finance, operations, regulatory compliance and fraud.
These areas were comprehensively reviewed on an ongoing basis and the Committee received regular updates from the Companys financial and operational management, Internal Audit, the Compliance Officer and legal team, as well as the external auditors.
The Committee reviewed and updated its own terms of reference, the internal audit charter and the Group Financial Reporting Procedures Manual FRP.
The effectiveness and status of the anti-corruption policy and sanctions risk compliance controls were reviewed throughout the course of the year, together with progress to meet the governance requirements of the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee also considered the proforma Viability Statement and supporting analysis produced by management and reviewed by the Risk Committee.
Significant Financial Reporting Issues considered by the Audit Committee in 2015 The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to support the Board in ensuring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and Annual Report including review of: compliance with financial reporting standards and governance requirements: the material financial areas in which significant accounting judgements have been made: the critical accounting policies and substance, consistency and fairness of management estimates: the clarity of disclosures: and whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model, strategy, principal risks and uncertainties.
com Financial reporting standards and governance requirements | The Audit Committee The full financial statements can be considered a number of financial reporting issues in relation to the Interim Results for found on pages 161-249.
H1 2015 and the financial statements for 2015.
These included the appropriateness of accounting policies adopted, disclosures and of managements estimates and judgements.
The Committee considered papers produced by management on the key financial reporting judgements and reviewed reports by the external auditor on the full year and half year results which highlight any issues with respect to the audit work.
The financial statements continue to be materially impacted by the devaluation of the key functional currencies of the business primarily the Russian rouble and, to a lesser extent, the Ukrainian hryvnia against the US dollar, the presentation currency of the financial statements, as set out in Note 2.
As a result, challenging the consistency and comparability of balances in the financial statements remains difficult but management separated out where appropriate the forex impact on areas of significant judgements and estimates.
The following financial reporting issues are considered significant.
EVRAZ is exposed to a range of risks Going concern Note 2 and the viability statement | Many of these are outside the control of the Company.
During 2015, global steel and coal prices deteriorated dramatically as a result and inherent uncertainties as set out on pages 30-31. of weak demand in key markets and continuing structural overcapacity in both raw material and steel supply, and the Russian economy continued to contract.
The Audit Committee carefully considered managements going concern analysis which included both a base case and a flexed downside scenario.
Given the uncertainties of the current global supply demand environment and the sensitivity of the going concern analysis to the forward market prices of steel products and coal concentrate in Russia, the Committee focused on the pessimistic downside case.
This is based upon forward pricing close to the low end of the range of current investment analyst forecasts, as set out in note 6, together with a further correlated devaluation of the Groups functional currencies and reduction to the level of budgeted capex.
The Committee carefully considered the projected Use and Sources of Funds for the period to June 2017 which included scheduled loan repayments, new committed funding and free cash flow after capital expenditure.
The implications of the pessimistic downside scenario on free cash flow and compliance with financial covenants were carefully considered, along with the proactive measures management had taken to address a potential breach of financial covenants.
These include a covenant waiver from key funders through to the end of 2017 and an extension to the Groups committed standby facilities.
Managements track record of successfully resolving similar matters and the continued availability of credit from both Russian and Western banks were also considered by the Committee.
Following these considerations, the Audit Committee resolved to recommend the going concern basis of preparation for the Financial Statements as at 31st December 2015 to the Board.
The Committee reviewed the scenarios and analysis supporting the viability statement over the course of 2015 and early 2016 before these were considered by the Board.
The scenarios and assumptions were challenged and tested over the course of six months in light of the deteriorating price and demand environment, to reflect the mitigation plan developed by management and the measures put in place to support the going concern statement.
The Committee also considered the proposed disclosures in the viability statement and the key assumptions underpinning the scenarios and analysis.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 121 Governance Areas of significant accounting judgement and management estimates 1 Impairment of goodwill and assets Notes 5 and 6 : the Committee considered managements impairment recommendations in the context of the current trading environment and future uncertainties detailed above.
As a result of the continued decline of the rouble, the carrying values of Russian cash generating units have declined materially in US dollar terms and are largely not challenged by the value in use comparisons used to determine impairment, even in the current negative pricing environment.
Of the $441 million impairment charge in 2015, US$251 million relates to the goodwill impairment of operations in North America which have been particularly affected by the impact of declining oil prices on key OCTG demand, reduced margin spreads and contract delays.
The balance $190 million relates to specific impairment of PPE at the cash generating units including charges in respect of the closure of a mine field at Raspadskaya Koksovaya 1 and further charges in respect of the idled EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli and Yuzhny Stan.
2 PraxAir contract Note 2 : the Committee reviewed the accounting treatment of the Groups 20 year non-exclusive agreement with PraxAir for the supply of oxygen and other industrial gases from a new air separation plant constructed by them.
Supply under this agreement commenced during 2015 and the PraxAir contract was renegotiated to increase the volume of nitrogen supplied, extend the contract term to 25 years and reduce the level of fixed payment over the life of the contract.
The Committee considered managements judgement that the commitments under the supply agreement did not constitute a lease and concurred with the treatment.
This judgement was based upon the non-exclusive nature of the supply agreement, the current and forecast level of third party sales and the importance of these third party sales to the profitability of the PraxAir plant.
Details of the contractual commitment under the agreement are included in note 30 to the financial statements.
Other matters | In preparing the 2015 financial results, management identified an undisclosed related party transaction in respect of the prior year.
Although the transaction itself was not material, management have initiated a review of the process for capturing, monitoring and approving related party transactions to ensure the timeliness, accuracy and completeness of future disclosure.
This review will be considered by the Audit Committee in 2016.
A further error in the disclosure of the Cost of Inventories recognised as expense in note 7 to the 2014 IFRS financial statements of EVRAZ plc was also identified.
Although the disclosure error is not considered material, the error and its correction is set out in Note 7 to these financial statements.
Social and charitable expenditure has been excluded from the definition of EBITDA in the segmental reporting as management believe such expenditure to be largely discretionary in nature and to more closely align the EBITDA treatment of such costs to the Companys Russian peers.
The Committee reviewed the implications of the change and the adequacy of the disclosure and were satisfied.
The implications of the change in definition are set out in Note 3.
com Matters specifically considered in respect of the Interim Results Deconsolidation of EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Limited EHSV Note 4 | As a result of continuing trading difficulties and local economic conditions in South Africa, the Board of EHSV resolved to place the company under voluntary business rescue procedures to protect shareholders and creditors on 14th April 2015. Business rescue practitioners were appointed on that day to pursue the refinancing and restructuring of EHSV and, in the event that this could not be achieved, to supervise an orderly liquidation.
Based upon the financial and market position of EHSV, management did not anticipate any material return to the Group as a result of the business rescue procedures and concluded that the Group had lost control of EHSV and was unlikely to regain control in the future, and EHSV was deconsolidated from 14th April 2015.
The Committee considered the legal process of business rescue procedures in South Africa and the specific facts relating to EHSV and concurred with the treatment proposed by management.
The deconsolidation resulted in a loss in the statement of operations of $167 million in the Interim Results representing the net assets of EHSV at the date of deconsolidation, the 75% write down of an intercompany loan and the reclassification of historic exchange losses.
As a result of the ongoing difficulties of the business rescue procedure, the outstanding 25% balance of the intercompany loan was written off during the third quarter.
Fair, balanced and understandable In considering whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, the Committee reviewed the information it had received, discussions throughout the year and the preparation process adopted.
Management agreed the key overall messages of the Annual Report at an early stage to ensure a consistent message in both the narrative and financial reporting.
Regular meetings were held to review the draft Annual Report and for management and Committee members to provide comments, and detailed review of the appropriate draft sections were undertaken by the relevant Directors.
The Committee particularly considered whether the description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, strategy and objectives were consistent with the understanding of the Board, and whether the controls over the consistency and accuracy of the information presented in the Annual Report are robust.
Taking into account the disclosure implications of the issues discussed in this report, the Committee recommended to the Board that, taken as a whole, it considers the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company`s performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee recommended approval of the Groups 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements by the Board.
Other Matters UK Bribery Act UKBA | The Committee continued to monitor the status of the procedures, controls and data collection of the Groups anti-corruption policy and Code of Conduct, including the regulation of interaction with state authorities introduced by the Company in November 2014 and progress in respect of the areas for improvement and implementation by the external audit in 2014.
During 2015, the Internal Audit department Annual Report & Accounts 2015 123 Governance tested the effectiveness of the UKBA compliance system and concluded that the risk had been significantly reduced as a result of the implementation of the majority of the recommendations from the audit.
A list of outstanding measures has been finalised together with a timeline for their implementation in the first half of 2016 and a programme of extended and ongoing training of personnel.
The Committee monitored the development of the framework for recording and approving all interactions with state officials, and the implementation and associated training across the Group, to comply with the Reports on Payments to Governments of the 2013 EU Accounting Directive.
Sanctions Compliance Controls | Following the legal advice and risk assessment undertaken This should be read in conjunction with Risk Management and Internal Control 2014, the Audit Committee reviewed and monitored the progress on implementation of the recommended control processes, procedures and reporting to minimise the risk of breaching any section on pages 115-117. sanction.
The controls and processes established for monitoring compliance are being regularly updated to incorporate the latest guidance from the Groups external legal advisers and there is a process of continuing education of compliance personnel and executive management.
Risk Management and Internal Control EVRAZ has an integrated approach to risk management to ensure that the review and consideration of risks inform the internal audit process, design of internal controls and management of the business.
The Groups financial reporting procedures, internal controls, risk management systems and activities are documented in a comprehensive Financial Reporting Procedures Manual FRP.
The manual was updated in December 2015 and reviewed by the Audit Committee in February 2016.
The Audit Committee reviews the recommendations of the Risk Committee, including the Groups Risk Register and level of Risk Appetite, and the draft Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties to be included in the Interim Statement and Annual Report, prior to the Boards consideration.
Internal Audit findings on control issues that exceed the Groups risk appetite are reported to the Board by the Audit Committee, followed up by the Groups Management Committee and the progress on resolution is monitored.
The Audit Committee continues to receive quarterly updates on whistleblowing reports together with a security report on the progress of follow-up investigations and resulting actions in relation of fraud and theft.
Any significant whistleblowing report is reported to the Committee on an ad hoc basis when it arises.
Assessment of the Groups risk profile and control environment | Internal Audit reviews the Groups risk and control environment bi-annually and this is considered by the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee tables the Internal Audit report judgement on the risk and control environment to the Board.
During 2015, the Group continued to assess its risk in relation to IT security by way of an external assessment.
A Group risk mitigation strategy was approved in October 2015 and is in the process of being implemented.
An external risk reassessment will be undertaken during 2016.
com The level and economic terms of external insurance cover was considered by the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee during 2015 and agreed by the Board.
The Risk Register was amended to acknowledge the level of self-insurance by the Group.
Internal Audit The Audit Committee reviewed the internal audit plans for 2016 and recommended a number of revisions in view of the challenging macroeconomic environment, risk profile of the business and further retrenchment in personnel.
The plan was revised to reflect the updated risk analysis, prioritise key business cycles and controls from a risk perspective and eliminate certain duplications with the HSE team.
The Committee considers the current Internal Audit resource to be adequate for the internal control and risk management assurance requirements.
The Audit Committee reviewed and updated the Internal Audit Charter during 2015.
An annual assessment of the effectiveness, independence and quality of the Internal Audit function was undertaken by way of a questionnaire to Committee members, management and the external auditors and was again found to be very satisfactory.
An external assessment was undertaken during 2015 and confirmed that the Internal Audit function in the Russian Federation, CIS and Europe conformed to the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, Code of Ethics and Definition of Internal Audit of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Head of Internal Audit Committee is secretary to the Audit and Risk Committee and prepares the minutes of both committees.
External Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness and independence of the external auditor, and making recommendations to the Board as to the re-appointment of the auditor.
Effectiveness and Independence | The Audit Committee has an established framework through which it monitors the effectiveness, independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, professional and regulatory requirements.
These include: review and approval of the external audit programme for the interim review and year-end audit, including consideration of the audit scope, key audit risks and audit materiality measures, and compliance with best practice: review and approval of the external auditors engagement letter: review of the FRCs Quality Inspection Report May 2015 and EYs response: http: www.
uk Our-work Publications consideration of the external auditors report on the Interim Review and Annual Report and Audit-Quality-Review  Letters: and .
pdf reviewing the external auditors management letter on the 2014 audit with management, considering managements response and proposed actions, and requesting that Internal Audit undertake a follow-up audit of key areas.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 125 Governance During 2015, the Committee gave particular consideration to the implications of the 2015 financial reporting timetable on the external audit process and the resulting early hard close, acceleration of substantive procedures and year-end roll forward procedures.
Following completion of the 2014 audit, management and members of the Audit Committee completed a questionnaire to assess the effectiveness and independence of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee holds regular meetings with the external auditor at which management are not present to consider the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and audit process.
During 2015, the external auditor confirmed that these policies and processes were appropriate.
The Committee Chairman also meets the Senior Statutory Auditor regularly outside of Audit Committee meetings.
Engagement of the external auditor for non-audit services is managed in accordance with the Groups policy which can be found on the Companys website: www.
This policy identifies a range of non-audit services which are prohibited on the basis that they might compromise the independence of the external auditor, establishes threshold limits for the level of non-audit fees relative to audit fees and authorisation processes for the approval of all audit and non-audit fees.
During 2015, non-audit fees totalled $268,000 and were primarily in relation to capital market transactions.
Nonaudit fees were 5.7% of the 2015 audit fee of $4.7 million.
Irrespective of prior approval of the CFO and Audit Committee Chairman, all fees are reported to the Audit Committee for noting and comment.
Re-appointment of the external auditor The Audit Committee considered the UK Governance Code guidance on re-appointment of the external auditor as well as the EU legislation on audit regulation, and reviewed the continuing engagement of Ernst & Young LLP EY.
EY were auditor to the predecessor group of companies from which Evraz was formed and the audit was last tendered in 2009.
Mr Ken Williamson was appointed Senior Statutory Auditor in 2011 and will rotate off following this annual report, with Mr Steve Dobson fulfilling the role for the 2016 Interim Review and Annual Report.
The Audit Committee continues to consider EY to be effective and independent in their role as auditor and has provided the Board with its recommendation to the shareholders that EY be re-appointed as external auditor for the year ended 31st December 2016.
However, in view of the regulatory guidance, the Audit Committee has resolved that an audit tender process will be undertaken in due course to allow for an appointment for the year ended 31st December 2017.
com Nominations Committee Report Matters considered by the Committee during the year At its meeting on 18 June 2015, the Committee considered the following issues: 1 A review of the appointment of Deborah Gudgeon as an independent non-executive director.
After much consideration and research during 2014 and early 2015, Deborah Gudgeon was identified as a strong candidate to succeed Terry Robinson as an independent non-executive director and as a member of the Audit Committee.
External agents were not used during the search to identify a replacement for Mr Robinson and an advertisement was not placed because a number of possible candidates had previously been identified by board members.
Members of the Committee, excluding Mr Robinson, who had previously worked with her, had interviewed Miss Gudgeon.
The fact that Miss Gudgeon is a chartered accountant, with extensive corporate and international experience, including some experience of mining, was noted.
Following a Sir Michael Peat decision by the Committee that Miss Gudgeons appointment as an independent nonSenior Independent Non-Executive executive director should be discussed by the board, a formal recommendation by the Director, Chairman of Nominations Committee to appoint Miss Gudgeon was put to the board on 31 March 2015.
approved by the board and Miss Gudgeon was appointed, with effect from 1 May 2015, as an independent non-executive director.
2 A detailed assessment of the results of the externally facilitated Nominations Committee Committee members review as undertaken by Lintstock in 2014.
This was the first time that the Board and and attendance Committees had undertaken an externally facilitated review and both the Committee and the Board as a whole concluded that it had been a helpful and encouraging exercise, with the results confirming that the Committee was working well, but also The members of the Nominations Committee including some helpful suggestions for improvement.
at 31 December 2015 were Sir Michael Peat Chairman, Alexander Izosimov, Karl 3 The composition of the Board Committees.
It was noted that the UK Corporate Gruber, Alexander Abramov, and Eugene Governance Code includes an assumption that a non-executive director is no longer Shvidler.
Terry Robinson was a member of considered independent once he or she has served as a director for nine years.
In view the Nominations Committee until 18 June of this, Terry Robinson had previously indicated that he would not seek re-election as 2015, while Karl Gruber also joined the a director of the Group at the 2015 annual general meeting, which was scheduled to Nominations Committee on the same date.
take place later that day.
As a result, Mr Robinson stepped down from the Committee Sir Michael Peat served as the chairman of at this meeting.
Mr Robinsons contribution to the Group has been considerable and he the Nominations Committee throughout the is a great loss to the Committee and to the board.
As a result of this, the Nominations year.
Committee made recommendations to the board: to appoint Deborah Gudgeon as Three of the five members of the Committee chairman of the Audit Committee: for Sir Michael Peat to step down from the Audit Committee: to appoint Karl Gruber as a member of the Nominations Committee: were independent non-executives.
and to appoint Alexander Izosimov as a member of the Audit Committee.
These recommendations were put to and approved by the board later that day and became The Committee met on three occasions during 2015, on 18 June, 17 November and effective from 19 June 2015.
4 Performance of the senior management team, succession planning and organisational structure.
Senior management succession planning was discussed, as is the case at See the directors attendance most of the Committees meetings.
The CEO was in attendance at all meetings and the company secretary acted as the Committees secretary.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 127 Governance At its meetings on 17 November 2015 and 15 December 2015, the Committee considered the following issues: 1 The composition of the board and the age, diversity and length of time in office of its members.
The Committee agreed that the board represented a good mix of skills and experience, and that the Group had benefited from having a stable board and a group of people who interact well.
The Committee undertook a review of the independent status of the non-executive directors based on the provisions in the UK Corporate Governance Code and confirmed the appropriateness of the independent status of each of the independent non-executive directors.
3 Organisational structure within the Group.
The Committee discussed the reorganisation of the business divisions on a regional basis and the various candidates that had been identified to lead the newly created divisions.
4 Best practices for Nominations Committee.
The Committee undertook a detailed review of the Women on Boards Davies Review: Five Year Summary and also considered the FRC discussion paper UK Board Succession Planning.
The Committee also considered the progress and results of the board and Board Committees Effectiveness review questionnaires.
These were detailed questionnaires, replies to which were submitted by all Board and Board Committee members, without attribution, directly to the company secretary.
The evaluation considered, inter alia, the balance of skills and experience on the board, independence, knowledge of the Group, the content and effectiveness of meetings and diversity including gender.
Performance of the chairman and individual directors The senior independent non-executive director sought views from all directors about the performance and contribution of the chairman.
The conclusions of this review were considered by the independent non-executive directors at a meeting on 15 December 2015.
It was concluded, as previously, that the chairman continues to make an important contribution to the Group, including his knowledge and experience of, and contacts in, the industry.
Prior to the Nominations Committee meeting on 15 December 2015, the chairman of the Group and the chairman of the Nominations Committee discussed the performance of 2016 priorities the individual directors, including time available to devote to the Groups business.
The Committee will continue to fulfil its general responsibilities, with particular Diversity policy emphasis on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, development The boards diversity policy is to have board membership that reflects the international nature and succession planning for senior management, providing and encouraging of the Groups operations and at least two women as board members.
The objective has been achieved.
The board notes the publication of the Women on Boards Davies Review: Five training for directors and implementing the recommendations from the external review of Year Summary, and as a result will be updating its diversity policy with a view to achieving 33% representation of women on the Groups board by 2020. the boards performance.
com Health, Safety and Environment Committee Report Role of the HSE Committee The HSE Committee leads the Boards thinking on health and safety issues and maintains responsibility for environmental and local community matters.
The responsibilities of the HSE Committee are: Assessing the performance of EVRAZ with regard to the impact of health, safety, environmental and community relations decisions and actions on employees, communities and other third parties and on the Groups reputation: On behalf of the Board, receiving reports from management concerning all fatalities and serious incidents within the Group and actions taken by management as a result of such fatalities or serious incidents: Reviewing the results of any independent audits of the Groups performance in regard to environmental, health, safety and community relations matters, reviewing any strategies and action plans developed by management in response to issues raised and, where appropriate, making recommendations to the Board concerning the same: Making whatever recommendations it deems appropriate to the Board on any area Karl Gruber within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of HSE Committee.
The Committee met twice during 2015, on 6 February 2015 and on 22 September 2015 in EVRAZ head offices in Moscow.
Members of the Committee visited two production sites: EVRAZ KGOK and EVRAZ NTMK.
Committee members In accordance with the 2015 plan, members of the Committee took part in a HSE and attendance strategic conference with EVRAZ top management on 22 April 2015.
The conference resulted in defining core elements of HSE strategy for 2016 and beyond.
In addition, As of 31 December 2015, the members of Committee members underwent planned HSE training in February 2015. the Health, Safety and Environment HSE Committee were Karl Gruber Chairman, In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Committee members receive a monthly HSE summary report, and a quarterly HSE report is provided to the Board of Directors.
Alexander Frolov and Olga Pokrovskaya.
The following sections summarise how the Committee fulfilled its duties in 2015.
HSE performance assessment of the Group Health and safety performance Health and safety performance is measured by the following metrics: Fatal incidents Lost-time injuries LTI Lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR, calculated as the number of injuries resulting in lost time per 1 million hours worked Cardinal safety rules enforcement The HSE Committee continued to review the causes of all fatalities and serious property damage incidents within the Group and the follow-up actions taken by the management.
On the suggestion of the HSE Committee, each fatality case was animated with a detailed description of the incident scene, sequence of events, root-cause analysis and corrective actions taken.
This practice will continue further if any fatality occurs.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 129 Governance The Committee reviewed the progress of a LOTO energy isolation programme to establish a zero-energy state of all equipment before any type of work is commenced and completed, especially during maintenance and repair.
It was acknowledged that every EVRAZ production facility successfully completed a pilot project on LOTO and has clear plans of expanding LOTO initiatives to other production areas.
The Committee reviewed the cardinal safety rules and approved adding one more cardinal safety rule regarding working at heights.
In 2015, the Committee requested and reviewed current health-related metrics to establish a benchmark for future health-related initiatives.
Health-related metrics were also benchmarked against World Steel Association data.
Environmental performance In 2016, the Committee conducted two reviews of EVRAZ environmental performance, including progress in achieving environmental targets set in 2012: Air emissions nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides, dust and volatile organic compounds : Non-mining waste and by-product generation, recycling and re-use: Fresh water intake and water management aspects.
The Committee has focused on the management of air, water and waste issues, and related projects designed to minimise environmental risks such as air emission reduction, water usage, waste water return into production, and metallurgical waste recycling and concluded that in most areas the initiatives undertaken need further implementing.
HSE audit The Committee reviewed the risks and opportunities related to the introduction of new result review Russian environmental regulations that set the new environmental performance targets for 2020, i. e. national goals for greenhouse gas reduction and transition to the best available techniques.
EVRAZ operations are subject to HSE compliance inspections undertaken by In addition, the extent of the Groups environmental compliance has been analysed using supervisory governmental agencies.
Violation of HSE regulations might lead compliance metrics: Non-compliance related environmental levies taxes and penalties: to regulatory fines, penalties or, in the EVRAZ environmental commitments and liabilities: worst case, withdrawal of mining or plant Major cases of environmental litigation and claims: environmental licences, thus curtailing Coverage of assets by environmental permits licences: operations.
Cases of public complaints: Potential environmental incidents and prevention actions.
The Committee members reviewed: Findings of industrial safety audits To improve environmental compliance management, the Committee discussed a new performed by the Internal Industrial Safety approach for assessing environmental risks, including issues related to significant potential department losses and risks associated with obtaining environmental permits, managed within the scope of daily operations.
This may lead to a better understanding of the situation and help to Findings of audits of the HSE function identify the best approaches and measures for improving environmental performance.
performed by the Internal Audit department Status of external environmental inspection carried out by environmental authorities and the implementation of corrective Details of HSE performance can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 84-92. actions
