Governance Corporate governance report 65 Board, committee and director effectiveness review Boards three-year effectiveness review cycle An independent external evaluation of Board and committee effectiveness was carried out in March 2014 by Sheena Crane, who had no connections with the Group.
This was the first year of the Boards three-year review cycle.
Following that Year 1 2014 evaluation, the Board set areas of focus Evaluation by external facilitator for 2014 15.
Given the depth of Ms Cranes external evaluation, the second year of the cycle involved the Board performing an internal evaluation of where it stood versus last years areas of focus and the Year 2 2015 resulting actions, as well as agreeing areas Internal review against detailed Year 1 review of focus for the coming year.
The third year of the cycle, to be undertaken next year, is intended to be an interview questionnairebased internal evaluation.
This years internal evaluation comprised Year 3 2016 a discussion on the Boards effectiveness Interview questionnaire-based, internal evaluation at the January 2015 Board meeting, based on materials circulated before the meeting.
These materials included managements update to the Board on the status of the focus areas and resulting actions, following last years external Regulatory environment The Audit Succession and talent development evaluation.
There were also separate Committee receives a regular compliance Following a number of Board changes meetings between each director and the update, including the impact on the over the past 18 months, the Nomination Chairman, in relation to the directors business of UK Financial Conduct Authority and Corporate Governance Committee performance.
The Deputy Chairman and and US Consumer Financial Protection will increase its focus on succession Senior Independent Director evaluated the Bureau regulation.
The Board also receives planning for the broader executive team and Chairman, taking account of input from a regulatory update at every meeting.
Below development plans for identified shortto the Chief Executive Officer and the other Board level, these matters are kept under medium-term successors.
Each principal Board committee ongoing review throughout the business.
opportunities for top talent to meet the nonalso evaluated its own performance.
Training continues to focus on regulatory executive directors, as part of Board visits At the January 2015 meeting, the compliance and information security.
to the business and other presentations to, Board noted that there had been good and interactions with, the Board.
Risk management The Board is progress against the agreed areas of considering the Groups risk appetite in Board development The Board visited focus.
In particular: the context of the 2014 revisions to the Madrid, Spain, in September 2014, Costa Strategy The strategy-setting process has UK Corporate Governance Code and Mesa, California, in March 2015, and enhanced the Boards consideration of longassociated guidance.
A large amount of will visit So Paulo, Brazil, in September term market opportunities and the Groups work has already been done to enhance 2015.
The programme of overseas Board growth ambitions beyond the traditional the risk-related elements of the Groups visits will be considered regularly, as planning horizon.
The Board also receives acquisition and integration processes, part of the normal review of the Boards more regular updates on key development including developing internal guidance, annual meeting schedule.
The structure of projects and domain knowledge topics.
expanding the frequency and depth of overseas Board visits has been reviewed, Specific action plans have been developed post-investment reviews and carrying out to incorporate both geographic and for each key strategic initiative.
detailed risk assessments immediately strategic business areas and domain post-acquisition.
66 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued The Board has agreed the following areas of focus for the coming year: Area Focus for the coming year Strategy Continued challenge of operating structures and business models to ensure they remain optimal in a changing external environment.
Enhanced reporting to the Board regarding execution of the Groups strategy.
Reporting Enhance Board reporting to include further metrics, and potential additional non-financial indicators.
Risk management Development of risk appetite and tolerance statements for principal risks: continuation of training in and systems key information security and regulatory compliance areas: consideration of the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Board composition Continue to review Board structure and composition: focus on succession planning for the broader executive and balance team and development plans for identified shortto medium-term successors.
succession planning Remuneration Renewal of the Groups long-term incentive plans, ensuring that shareholders views and the recommendations of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code are taken into consideration.
Board working Receive thematic presentations covering areas that address the Groups strategic priorities and challenges.
Ensure continued regular opportunities for non-executive directors and the Chairman to meet privately, while recognising the importance of the Boards inclusive structure.
Board development Continue an effective programme of overseas visits to get a deeper view of local issues, including risk and culture: including the perspective of external experts.
Board support Induction and training Balance of executive and The Group Corporate Secretariat, There is an induction programme for all non-executive directors under the leadership of Charles Brown, new non-executive directors.
Jan Babiaks at 31 March 2015 the Company Secretary, provides induction programme during the year administrative and logistical support comprised the following corporate to the Board.
The Company Secretary and business operational sessions: is also responsible for: Corporate this included: strategy: a corporate governance, statutory financial overview: budget and capital and listing, prospectus, and disclosure strategy: corporate development: legal, and transparency rules compliance regulatory and government affairs: and reporting: risk: information security: corporate responsibility: global sales operations: shareholder services: talent and people: audit: market and enterprise risk management: and investor relations matters: and governance Chairman corporate responsibility.
The relevant corporate Executive executives provided the induction, and Independent non-executive He is secretary to the Board, its meetings were held with the external principal committees and the Global auditor and lead external counsel.
Strategic Projects Committee, and is a member and secretary of the Length of tenure Business operations this part of Group Operating Committee.
of directors the induction included: a customer at 31 March 2015 service overview: data centre tour: client All directors receive financial and and strategic development: product operational information each month, demonstrations: overviews of the Credit to help them discharge their duties.
Services, Marketing Services, Decision Board papers are circulated at least a Analytics and Consumer Services global week ahead of each Board meeting, to business lines: and spending time with ensure directors have time to review the Passport Health business.
The Board also received the following Directors have access to independent training and updates during the year: professional advice at the Companys expense, if they consider it appropriate.
Madrid, Spain at the meetings in No director obtained any such advice 05 years September 2014, the Board received a Over 5 years during the year ended 31 March 2015. comprehensive update on the EMEA
