Governance Corporate governance report 63 The Board is not involved in managing Appointments approving Board the Groups day-to-day activities but it is appointments, on the Nomination and Composition accountable to shareholders for delivering Corporate Governance Committees The Board currently comprises the financial performance and long-term recommendation.
Chairman, three executive directors and shareholder value.
To achieve this, the eight independent non-executive directors, Approval of Group policies including, Board has put in place a framework of including a Deputy Chairman.
Jan Babiak for example, an anti-corruption policy, a controls, which enables the Group to was appointed as a non-executive director gifts and hospitality policy, a global code of appraise and manage risk effectively, on 29 April 2014.
On 16 July 2014, a number conduct and a global compliance policy.
through clear and robust procedures and of previously announced Board changes delegated authorities.
In addition, the took effect: Don Robert was appointed as Board meetings Board has reserved certain key activities Chairman, Brian Cassin was appointed The Board meets regularly and on an ad to itself for decision, including: as Chief Executive Officer, Kerry Williams hoc basis when required.
Each scheduled was appointed as Chief Operating Officer, meeting is normally held over two or three Strategy and management approving and George Rose was appointed as days, with Board committee meetings also and overseeing Experians long-term Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent taking place during this time.
This structure objectives and commercial strategy, ensuring Director.
Sir John Peace, Chris Callero and enhances the effectiveness of the Board and that the necessary financial and human Sir Alan Rudge retired as directors on that its committees.
resources are in place to meet the objectives.
Lloyd Pitchford was appointed as The Board holds at least one overseas Chief Financial Officer on 1 October 2014.
Management oversight reviewing meeting each year, which allows On 21 January 2015, Alan Jebson notified operating, financial and risk performance.
management across the Group to present the Company of his intention to retire as a Regulatory and statutory activity to the Board and to meet the directors non-executive director, with effect from the including approving the Groups results, informally.
In September 2014, the Board conclusion of the AGM on 22 July 2015. key stakeholder documents and dividends.
spent three days in Madrid, Spain and held What is the Boards role?
Board and committee meetings during the Finance and treasury approving the The Board sets the Groups strategic visit.
In March 2015, the Board spent three framework for the Groups finance, banking direction and ensures that we have the days in Costa Mesa, California, during which and capital structure arrangements.
necessary financial and human resources it held Board and committee meetings.
In January each year, senior management presents the Attendance at Board and principal committee meetings proposed strategy for the following financial year to the Board.
This allows Nomination and Corporate the Board to critically review the proposed Governance Remuneration Audit strategy with management and, at Board Committee Committee Committee the January Board meeting, consider Don Robert 100% 6 6 100% 6 6 n a n a the strategy for approval.
The budget Brian Cassin 100% 6 6 n a n a n a discussions in March ensure that we have Lloyd Pitchford 100% 3 3 n a n a n a the right resources to deliver the agreed Kerry Williams 100% 4 4 n a n a n a strategy: the discussions also include Sir John Peace 100% 2 2 50% 1 2 n a n a detailed focus on both regional and Chris Callero 100% 2 2 n a n a n a global business line budgets.
To enable it to do this, the Board Deirdre Mahlan 100% 6 6 100% 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 4 4 receives operational and financial updates at George Rose 100% 6 6 100% 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 4 4 every scheduled Board meeting, and receives Judith Sprieser 100% 6 6 100% 6 6 100% 4 4 n a performance and operational updates Paul Walker 100% 6 6 100% 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 4 4 between meetings.
The Board also conducts Sir Alan Rudge 100% 2 2 100% 2 2 100% 1 1 100% 1 1 post-investment reviews on an agreed timeline, for any acquisitions it has approved.
Lloyd Pitchford was appointed on 1 October 2014.
Kerry Williams was appointed on 16 July 2014.
Sir John Peace, Chris Callero and Sir Alan Rudge retired on 16 July 2014.
Jan Babiak was appointed on 29 April 2014.
64 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued What did the Board do during the year?
The Boards key activities during the year are set out below.
These include activities related to the Groups strategy, which the Board decided on in light of its risk appetite and risk management processes.
Investor relations Corporate development Governance and risk Received an investor relations Reviewed and discussed the Discussed regulatory matters at and media update at each corporate development pipeline every scheduled Board meeting Board meeting.
with the Group General Counsel.
Reviewed and discussed draft Conducted post-investment Reviewed risk reports, the fulland half-year financial results reviews on the 2012 acquisitions appropriateness of preparing presentations, for analysts and of Garlik Limited, 192business the financial statements on a institutional shareholders.
Limited, Altovision, Court Ventures, going concern basis and the Conversen and the non-controlling Audit Committees advice on Through the Remuneration interest in Serasa S. A. making a fair, balanced and Committee, engaged with understandable statement.
shareholders on proposed remuneration arrangements Received regular updates on for 2014 15. corporate responsibility issues and the annual environmental and health and safety updates.
Reviewed Board evaluation findings Operational and financial and agreed areas of focus, approved performance, including amendments to Board committee monitoring terms of reference, authorised Reviewed operational and financial Board members potential conflicts updates from the Chief Executive of interest and approved the annual Officer, the Chief Operating Officer re-election of Board members.
and the Chief Financial Officer, at Undertook training on share dealing each scheduled Board meeting.
rules and received details of Board Reviewed monthly reports, members external appointments including details of performance and share dealings.
against budget and the Groups financial position.
Approved the Groups annual report and fulland half-year Strategy financial results, and made Reviewed and discussed recommendations regarding presentations at the annual strategy dividend payments.
sessions, including consideration of the Groups objectives and priorities, Approved a new debt leverage opportunities to drive growth, an intarget range, a new dividend policy, depth review of the Groups financial a US$600m share repurchase and capital structure, and culture programme and the replacing of and talent.
Discussed and approved the Groups Received specific strategy Other budget presentation for 2015 16 and presentations on Marketing received updates on Group insurance Services, Consumer Services, and pension arrangements.
Brazil, Consumer Information, Business Information, fraud and Approved an ongoing capital identity, software and analytics and investment project for the Groups vertical markets, including health UK business and considered and automotive.
specific operational matters in Approved the Groups strategy Brazil and North America.
