FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Statement The Company is a member of the Association of Investment The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are Companies the AIC.
The Board has therefore considered the considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, Governance issued in February 2015 the AIC Code by reference including the Chairman, has been imposed.
to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies During the year the performance of the Board, Committees and issued at the same time the AIC Guide, both of which can be individual Directors was assessed by Condign Board Consulting found at www.
The AIC Code, as explained by the Limited Condign, that carried out an independent board AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate evaluation.
This process involved Condign attending and observing Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in at a Board meeting and interviewing the individual Directors and September 2014, which can be found at www.
uk, as well representatives of the Managers.
A comprehensive report was as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues produced which provided valuable feedback.
The AIC Code also incorporates The table below sets out the number of scheduled Board and a framework of best practice for Guernsey-domiciled member committee meetings held during the year and the number of companies.
meetings attended by each Director.
In addition to these scheduled The Board considers that it is appropriate to report against the meetings, there were a further 17 Board and Board committee principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference meetings held in Guernsey during the year.
to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek Code.
independent professional advice on any matter that concerns In September 2011, the Guernsey Financial Services Commission them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains issued a Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance the GFSC appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
As the Company already reports against the AIC Code The basis on which the Company aims to generate value over and the UK Corporate Governance Code it is deemed to meet the the longer term is set out in its objective and investment policy as requirements of the GFSC Code and has therefore not reported contained on page 10.
A management agreement between the further on its compliance with that code.
Company and FCIB sets out the matters over which the Managers Since all the Directors are non-executive, in accordance with the have authority and the limits beyond which Board approval must AIC Code and the preamble to the UK Corporate Governance be sought.
All other matters, including investment and dividend Code, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the policies, corporate strategy, gearing, corporate governance role of the chief executive and, except in so far as they apply to nonprocedures and risk management, are reserved for the approval executive Directors, on Directors remuneration, are not relevant to of the Board of Directors.
The Board meets at least quarterly and the Company, and are not reported on further.
receives full information on the Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board The Companys Articles of Incorporation require all Directors to meetings.
retire by rotation at least every three years.
However, in accordance with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the UK Corporate Throughout the year a number of committees have been in place.
Governance Code the Board has agreed that all Directors will retire Those committees are the Audit Committee, the Management annually and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
Engagement Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The Management Board of Directors Audit Committee Engagement Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Russell 5 5 n a n a 1 1 1 1 T Clark 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 M R Moore 5 5 3 2 1 1 1 1 P Niven 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 B W Sweetland 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 N J M Tostevin retired 28 May 2015 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 P Cornell appointed 1 May 2015 4 4 2 2 D Preston appointed 1 May 2015 4 4 2 2 24 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 25 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Corporate Governance Statement continued committees operate within clearly defined terms of reference Relations with Shareholders which are available for inspection upon request at the Companys The Company proactively seeks the views of its shareholders and registered office.
places great importance on communication with them.
The Board receives regular reports from the Managers and brokers on the Audit Committee views of shareholders, and the Chairman and other Directors meet The Report of the Audit Committee is contained on pages 27 to 28. with major shareholders at least annually and make themselves available to meet shareholders when required to discuss any Management Engagement Committee significant issues that have arisen and address shareholder concerns and queries.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be The Management Engagement Committee comprises all the held on 2 June 2016 is set out on pages 59 and 61.
It is hoped that Directors and is chaired by Mr P Niven.
this will provide a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders The committee reviews the appropriateness of the Managers to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Managers of the continuing appointment together with the terms and conditions Company.
The Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting thereof on a regular basis.
It also reviews the terms and quality of are posted to shareholders at least 20 working days before the service received from other service providers on a regular basis.
As stated in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 29 to 30, the full Board determines the level of Directors fees and accordingly there is no separate Remuneration Committee.
On behalf of the Board Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all the Directors and is chaired by Mr C Russell.
The Board considers that, given its size, C Russell it would be unnecessarily burdensome to establish a separate Director nomination committee which did not include the entire Board and 4 April 2016 believes that this enables all Directors to be kept fully informed of any issues that arise.
The committee is convened for the purpose of considering the appointment of additional Directors as and when considered appropriate.
Appointments to the Board are based on merit, but in considering appointments the Nomination Committee also takes into account the ongoing requirements of the Company and the need to have a balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity, including gender, and knowledge of the Company within the Board.
The Directors have not set any measurable objectives in relation to the diversity of the Board.
Whenever there are new appointments, these Directors receive an induction from the Managers and Company Secretary on joining the Board.
All Directors receive other relevant training, collectively or individually, as necessary.
26 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 27
