FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee comprised all the Directors As part of the review of auditor independence and effectiveness, except the Chairman of the Board, Mr C Russell.
It is chaired by KPMG have confirmed that they are independent of the Company Mrs T Clark.
and have complied with relevant auditing standards.
In evaluating KPMG, the Audit Committee has taken into consideration the The duties of the committee include reviewing the Annual and standing, skills and experience of the firm and the audit team.
The Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls, and the terms Committee assesses the effectiveness of the audit process through of appointment and remuneration of the auditor, KPMG Channel the reporting it receives from KPMG in respect of both the half Islands Limited KPMG, including its independence and objectivity.
year and year end Report and Accounts.
The committee remains It is also the forum through which KPMG reports to the Board of satisfied that KPMG continues to provide effective independent Directors.
The committee meets at least three times a year including challenge in carrying out its responsibilities.
at least one meeting with KPMG.
KPMG have been the Companys auditor since its launch in 2005.
The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year and In accordance with best practice, the Audit Committee decided to the attendance of each of the members is set out on page 25. put the appointment out to tender.
Four audit firms including the In the course of its duties, the committee had direct access to incumbent tendered and were asked to submit a detailed tender KPMG and senior members of the Managers investment company document covering a number of key areas.
Amongst other things, the Audit Committee considered and reviewed these before asking three audit firms to give a presentation reviewed the following matters and reported thereon to the Board: to an interview panel comprised of members of the Audit Committee the annual and half-yearly reports and accounts: and representatives of the Manager.
the accounting polices of the Group: There was very little to choose between the parties involved.
All the principal risks faced by the Company and the effectiveness firms were independently scored on numerous criteria by the of the Companys internal control environment: interview panel covering that firms experience, team structure and the effectiveness of the audit process and related non-audit audit methodology, amongst other things.
Given that the decision services and the independence and objectivity of KPMG, their was so close, the deciding factor was the Boards approach to re-appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: Corporate Governance and perceived benefit from rotating audit the policy on the engagement of KPMG to supply non-audit firms after a period of ten years.
The Committee has therefore services: recommended that PwC be appointed as the companys auditor for the 2016 year end and a resolution proposing their appointment will the implications of proposed new accounting standards and be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
regulatory changes: We would like to take this opportunity to thank KPMG for the audit the receipt of Report on Internal Controls in accordance with work they have performed for the Company over the years, which AAF 01 06 for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 October 2015 has always been of the highest standard.
from the Managers: and whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and Internal Controls understandable.
As part of its review of the scope and results of the audit, during The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal the year the Audit Committee considered and approved KPMGs control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It has therefore plan for the audit of the financial statements for the year ended established a process designed to meet the particular needs of the 31 December 2015.
At the conclusion of the audit, KPMG did not Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent highlight any issues to the Audit Committee which would cause it to with the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting qualify its audit report, nor did it highlight any fundamental internal Council.
KPMG issued an unqualified audit report which As part of this process, a matrix has been created that identifies is included on pages 32 to 34. the Companys key functions, including those carried out by the In relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, it Managers and other service providers, and the individual activities has been agreed that all non-audit work to be carried out by the undertaken within those functions.
From this, the Board has auditor must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee and identified the Companys principal risks and the controls employed any special projects must also be approved in advance.
In addition to manage those risks.
These are reviewed at each quarterly Board to statutory audit fees of 72,000 2014: 74,000, KPMG received Meeting.
The Board also monitors the investment performance audit-related fees of 11,000 for the year 2014: 11,000 which of the Company against its stated objective and comparable related principally to a review of the interim financial information.
companies and reviews the Companys activities since the last They also received non-audit fees of 2,500 relating to tax guidance Board meeting to ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed on FATCA.
The Audit Committee does not consider that the investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if provision of such non-audit services is a threat to the objectivity and necessary, approves changes to the guidelines.
In addition, the independence of the conduct of the audit.
Board receives quarterly reports from the Company Secretary in 26 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 27 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Report of the Audit Committee continued respect of compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, the Company.
by their nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
It Managers Report on Internal Controls in accordance with AAF has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the 01 06 for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 October 2015 that has Managers and the Company Secretary, including their internal audit been prepared for their investment company clients.
Containing a functions and the work carried out by the Companys external report from independent external accountants, the report sets out auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal the Managers control policies and procedures with respect to the control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is maintained.
management of their clients investments.
The effectiveness of these An internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore controls is monitored by the Managers group audit committee considered unnecessary.
which receives regular reports from the Managers audit, risk and compliance department.
Procedures are in place to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses and ensure that action would be taken to remedy any significant issues identified from this monitoring, which would be reported to the Board.
No significant T Clark failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company were identified in the year under review nor to the date of this report.
The depositary Chairman of the Audit Committee provides quarterly reports to the Board and carries out daily 4 April 2016 independent checks on all cash and investment transactions and is liable for any loss of assets.
The review procedures detailed above have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These Significant Matters Considered by the Audit Committee in Relation to the Financial Statements Matter Action Valuation of the Investment Property Portfolio The Board and Audit Committee reviewed the outcomes of the The Groups property portfolio accounted for 95 per cent of its total valuation process throughout the year and discussed the detail of assets as at 31 December 2015.
Although valued by an independent each of the quarterly valuations with the Managers at Board Meetings.
firm of valuers, CBRE Limited, the valuation of the investment property The Managers liaise with the valuers on a regular basis and meet with portfolio is inherently subjective, requiring significant judgement by the them prior to the production of each quarterly valuation.
Errors in the valuation could have a material impact on the was represented at most of the quarterly valuation meetings with Companys net asset value.
Further information about the property CBRE Limited during the year, including the meeting in advance of the portfolio and inputs to the valuations are set out in note 9 to the production of the year end valuation.
In addition, this is the main area accounts.
of audit focus and, accordingly, the Audit Committee receives detailed verbal and written reports from KPMG on this matter.
Going Concern The Audit Committee reviewed the basis for concluding that the Group The Groups accounts have been prepared on a going concern remains a going concern, including consideration of the liquidity of basis.
Under guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, the its investment properties, the quantum of its cash holdings, cashflow Directors are required to conduct a rigorous assessment of this basis forecasts, the due date for repayment of the Groups borrowing of preparation.
facilities and continued compliance with applicable loan covenants, and satisfied itself that the going concern basis of preparation remains appropriate.
Further to this, the Committee also considered the viability of the Company as detailed in the Viability Assessment and Statement on page 13.
28 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 29
