Fidessa group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report This section of the Annual Report outlines how the Board maintains high standards of corporate governance as well as providing a summary of how each of the Boards Committees function.
The Board believes in good governance and recognises the importance of complying with the various aspects of the UK governance framework.
Over the last two years the Board has seen a number of changes.
2014 saw the retirement and appointment of two new non-executive directors and in October 2015 the Board welcomed Andy Skelton as the new Chief Financial Officer, succeeding Andy Malpass who will step down as an executive director in February 2016.
Andy Malpass has served as Chief Financial Officer for the past two decades, during which time Fidessas revenues have grown from 7 million to 295 million 2015.
Andy played a key role in our stock market flotation in 1997 and since then has been instrumental in helping develop the business into a global leader.
Andys knowledge, commitment, integrity and pragmatic style are all highly valued within Fidessa, but are also widely recognised and admired in the investment community, where his solid and consistent approach has served all of Fidessas shareholders extremely well.
Andy has also helped ensure a smooth transition period and handover for his successor, Andy Skelton.
We all thank Andy for his invaluable contribution to Fidessa and sincerely wish him all the very best for the future.
The Board also looks forward to working with Andy Skelton during the next phase in Fidessas development.
The Board continues to welcome interaction with shareholders and I and the other non-executive directors are available for dialogue as an alternative to meetings with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Finally, as part of the Boards ongoing commitment to good corporate governance, a full evaluation of the Board was completed in October 2015.
The evaluation was facilitated by David Mensley of EquityCommunications Ltd and it was concluded that the Board was operating effectively.
The observations arising from the evaluation were discussed by the Board during 2015.
Further details are set out in this report.
John Hamer Chairman The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2015.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27th April 2016.
The Strategic Report is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
All sections of the Annual Report contain certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors For the majority of 2015, the Board comprised a Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
Currently there are three executive directors during the handover of responsibilities of Chief Financial Officer, the number of executive directors will revert to two in February 2016.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 56, Chairman John Hamer joined Fidessa in 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman in 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
