Corporate governance report Anumber of candidates were considered for the role and it was agreed that Wolfhart Hauser met the specication of the role, possessing all the necessary financial and operational acumen to provide both strong challenge and able support to the executive team as well as a proven track record of long term value creation as CEO of a FTSE 100 company and strong corporate governance insight gained through being a non-executive director on FTSE 100 boards.
As announced on11 March 2015, Wolfhart Hauser will assume the role of Chairman following the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2015, having joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 18 May 2015.
More detailed information on the process to identify the Dear fellow shareholder new Chairman is set out in the Nomination Committee report below.
Good governance is the cornerstone of Committee framework a successful and sustainable company.
FirstGroup has a structured and established corporate governance framework which underpins the Boards aim of achieving long term The Board is committed to maintaining success and sustainable shareholder value.
As a Board, we believe the highest standards of corporate that for a framework to work well, constant evaluation is required to governance in its management of the ensure that the overall aims and objectives are stretching but achievable.
The Board has four principal Committees to deal with affairs of the Group and its accountability specic aspects of the Groups affairs: the Audit Committee: Board to shareholders and other stakeholders.
Safety Committee: Remuneration Committee: and Nomination Committee.
Detailed information on the roles and responsibilities, Board role and effectiveness andthe activities undertaken during the year by each Committee, The core purpose of the Board is to create and deliver the long term areset out in their respective sections within this Corporate success of the Company and long term returns for shareholders.
requires the Board to set the Companys strategic aims, ensure that Board and Committee evaluation thenecessary financial and human resource structures are in place to The Board believes regular and appropriate Board and Committee achieve the Companys objectives, provide oversight of managements evaluation is key to achieving and improving Board effectiveness.
performance in delivering against strategy on a day-to-day basis and Giventhe important changes to the Board with the appointment set the Companys risk appetite.
The Board is aware of its obligations ofanew Chairman and three new Non-Executive Directors, we tothe Companys shareholders and other stakeholders and responds choseagain to conduct an externally facilitated evaluation process.
to their needs by transparent reporting and active engagement.
Thiswasdelayed slightly compared to our normal practice with My role as Chairman is to lead the Board and to ensure that FirstGroup theresults presented at the June 2015 Board meeting to allow has a Board which works effectively on all aspects of its role.
A key Wolfhartto be part of the Board discussions on the evaluation partof that role is to ensure the Board works collaboratively with the results.
We will therefore report on the outcomes of the evaluation executive team, providing support and guidance to complement and innext years Annual Report and Accounts.
enhance the work undertaken, constructively challenges management Succession planning when necessary and exercises an appropriate level of rigorous enquiry Proper planning for Board and senior management succession and and intellectual debate.
This involves having Directors with the right refreshing and selecting the right individuals for the Board and senior range and balance of skills, experience and attributes, including a management positions from a diverse talent pool are key issues for broad diversity of perspectives, for the Board and for FirstGroup.
It is essential in ensuring a continuous level of quality in Ibelieve we have this on our Board, enhanced by the appointments management, in avoiding instability by helping mitigate the risks which ofWarwick Brady, Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh inJune 2014. may be associated with unforeseen events, such as the departure of Chairman designate akey individual, and in promoting diversity.
During the year, the Board It was with regret that I announced in September 2014 the difficult reviewed the status of succession planning and engaged Spencer decision to step down from the Chairmanship and Board of FirstGroup Stuart to assist in assessing individuals able to progress to Board so early in my tenure, as a condition of assuming the chairmans andexecutive management positions.
position at Barclays plc earlier this year.
The process to identify a new Chair was led by Drummond Hall, as Senior Independent Director.
Acomprehensive and rigorous search process was put in place with a candidate prole and position specication prepared, and an executive search consultant, JCA Group, appointed to assist with the process.
58 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Index to section Nomination Committee report Page 68 Audit Committee report Page 70 Board Safety Committee report Page 74 Directors Remuneration report Page 76 Diversity Internal control and risk management The Board has previously highlighted that it is an advocate of diversity The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal in the boardroom and a supporter of Lord Davies aim to raise the control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this proportion of women on UK Boards, as reected in the 2013 Women system.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing on Boards report.
the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed to The Board consists of Directors with a wide range of skills and strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
Overall businessexperience drawn from a number of industries, which is management of these risks is vested in the Board, with the Audit critical for bringing both the expertise required, and to enable different Committee having delegated authority for reviewing the Groups risk perspectives to be brought to Board discussions.
More detailed information on the Groups ofthese factors mean that the Board benets from a diverse range system of internal control and risk management can be found in the ofcompetencies, perspectives and thoughts, providing an ability Principal risks and uncertainties section and this Corporate tochallenge on strategic issues and a dynamic environment for Governancereport.
Engaging with shareholders The Board continues to aim towards its aspiration of 25% of Board Engaging with shareholders is one of the key aspects of corporate positions lled by women.
The Board remains of the opinion that governance.
I and my fellow Directors welcome open, meaningful appointments to the Board should be made on merit relative to a discussion with shareholders, particularly with regard to governance, number of different criteria including diversity of gender, background strategy and remuneration.
The Board and management have and personal attributes, alongside the appropriate skill set, experience undertaken a number of activities in this regard during the year, and expertise.
Future appointments to the Board must also manyofwhich are detailed in this Annual Report and Accounts.
complement the balance of skills that the Board already possesses.
TheBoard also receives regular reports on investor relations activities Further details of the Groups approach to diversity canbe found and, in particular, on shareholder sentiment and feedback.
The Board ontheFirstGroup website at www.
continues to believe that ongoing engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders is vital to ensuring their views and perspectives are The Board recognises the need to create the conditions that foster fully understood and taken into consideration.
This will remain a key talent and encourage all employees to achieve their full career potential focus for the Board in 2015 16.
At the Companys forthcoming Annual in the Group.
As part of our overall approach to human resource General Meeting, all Directors who are able to attend will be available, management we encourage employee diversity and aspire to be an as usual, to meet with shareholders after the meeting to discuss any inclusive organisation, representative of the communities that we serve.
I encourage as many shareholders as possible to attend the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2015.
Remuneration In light of comments expressed by some shareholders on the 2014 Looking ahead Directors Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee has This is my last report to you as Chairman, as I will retire from the Board undertaken a full review of executive remuneration, which has been at the conclusion of the AGM on 16 July 2015.
I would like to take this itsmain activity during the year.
As well as endeavouring to address opportunity to thank my Board colleagues, both present and past, for theshareholder concerns raised, the purpose of the review has also the invaluable support and guidance they have given me, through their been to ensure that remuneration is aligned to the Groups strategy contribution on the Board and Board Committees and more widely, andturnaround plans.
As a result of this, the Committee concluded during my period as Chairman.
As I hand over to my successor, that a number of changes to the remuneration policy are required, Wolfhart Hauser, I would like to wish my Board colleagues every which will be voted upon at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
John McFarlane Chairman FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Corporate gover finance report continued Shareholders Board of Directors Leadership, strategy, risk, values and standards Audit Board Safety Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial reporting, Developing a framework Board composition Remuneration framework internal control and of safety policies and and succession and individual Director auditor relationship standards tomanage risk packages Risk Executive Safety Group Committee Overseeing risk Safety standards and management activities sharing ofbest practice Chief Executive Day-to-day running oftheCompany in accordance with the strategy and transformation plans Code compliance Governance framework The Board confirms that throughout the year the Company has applied The Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared in accordance the main principles and complied with the provisions of the Code, save with the UK Corporate Governance Code which was issued in for the Remuneration Committee has comprised only two independent September 2012 the Code by the Financial Reporting Council Non-Executive Directors since June 2014.
The Committee dealt theFRC and is available to view at www.
The Company effectively and ably with the matters it was required to address during iscurrently reviewing the provisions of the revised edition of the UK this period.
Following the succession of Wolfhart Hauser as Chairman Corporate Governance Code published by the FRC in September 2014 after the conclusion of the 2015 Annual General Meeting the matter will which applies to companies with a premium listing on the London be further considered and addressed.
Stock Exchange with accounting periods beginning on or after 1October 2014.
These provisions will apply to the Company for thenancial year ending 31 March 2016 and we are considering how best we can comply with them to ensure continued high standards ofgovernance.
60 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Board visited the ofces of Greyhound in Dallas, which included Leadership apresentation from senior management on Greyhounds The role of the Board commercialstrategy.
The Board is accountable for managing the Company on behalf of itsshareholders and each Director acts in a way which promotes the In order to carry out its work, the Board has established a planned long term success of the Company for the benefit of the shareholders programme of agendas to ensure all necessary matters are covered as a whole.
The Board ensures that an appropriate balance between and to allow sufficient time for debate and challenge.
The Board promoting long term growth and delivering short term objectives alsotakes time to review past decisions where necessary.
meetings, the Board receives and considers papers and presentations from management on relevant topics and senior executives are The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Company regularly invited to attend meetings for specic items.
Effective review withinaframework of prudent and effective controls for risk and decision-making is supported by providing the Board with high assessment and management.
The Board is primarily responsible for: quality, accurate, clear and timely information including input from determining strategic direction and demonstrating leadership: focusing advisers where necessary.
on matters that consistently add value for shareholders of the Company both present and future: the governance and stewardship ofthe Group Board meetings are structured around the following areas: toprovide protection and security for the shareholders assets: the Q management of the Groups employees: setting the Groups standards divisional updates: and values, and ensuring that its obligations to shareholders and other Q financial updates: stakeholders are understood and met: and determining the nature and Q strategy and transformation plans: extent of the significant risks the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Another key responsibility of the Board is to ensure Q progress against strategy and transformation plans: that management maintains a system of internal control that provides Q other reporting items for approval, including UK rail franchise assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls bids:and and compliance with laws and regulations.
The Board is the decision-making body for all matters of such importance as to be significant to the Group as a whole because of Division of responsibilities their strategic, financial or reputational implications or consequences.
The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between theChairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, Specic key matters have been reserved for approval by the Board.
ChiefExecutive and other Directors are clearly dened so that no These include approval of: singleindividual has unrestricted powers of decision.
Q the Groups strategy: Roles and responsibilities Q risk appetite: Chairman Q In addition to being a Board member responsible to the Company, major acquisitions, mergers or disposals: shareholders and other stakeholders, the key roles and responsibilities Q UK rail franchise bids: of the Chairman include: Q dealings with regulatory authorities on matters of significance: Q promoting the interests of the Company with special regard to Group Q capital and liquidity matters: planning and development to secure the Groups future success: Q Q the five-year plan and annual budget: ensuring the effective operation of the Board and its Committees in conformity with the highest standards of corporate governance: Q Board and Committee membership: and Q providing leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, style and Q financial results andgovernance.
tone of meeting discussions to promote open and constructive debate and effective decision-making, as well as ensuring that Board meetings and visits adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items and The core activities of the Board are carried out in scheduled taking account of all views of the Directors: meetingsof the Board and its Committees.
Additional ad hoc meetingsand conference calls of the Board and its Committees Q ensuring that shareholders and the Board receive accurate, timely, arearranged to consider matters which require decisions outside clear and high quality information on all important matters: thescheduled meetings.
Q ensuring that the Board determines significant risks, that the Directors have effective oversight of risks and that the Board To ensure the Board sees the Groups operations overseas, the Board haseffective decision-making processes and applies sufficient normally holds at least one meeting each year at one of the principal challenge to management: overseas ofces of the Group.
This provides senior management from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board and its Q chairing the Nomination Committee and assembling an effective, Committees and to meet Board members informally.
It also provides complementary Board by initiating change and succession the Board with the opportunity to assess senior managers at first hand planning of Board and Committee members: and to review operational matters.
For example, during the year the FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Corporate governance report continued Q ensuring comprehensive induction programmes for new Directors Senior Independent Director and that the needs of all Directors are identified and met: In addition to being a Board member responsible to the Company, shareholders and other stakeholders, the key roles and responsibilities Q ensuring the performance of the Board, its Committees and of the Senior Independent Director include: individual Directors is formally evaluated annually, with an Q acting as a point of contact for shareholders and other externally facilitated evaluation performed at least every stakeholders to discuss matters of concern which would not threeyears: beappropriate through the normal channels of communication Q promoting effective and constructive relationships and with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director.
communications between Non-Executive Directors and Executive Nosuch matters of concern were raised by shareholders or Directors and senior management, and holding meetings with the stakeholders during the year ended 31 March 2015: Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors Q acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as beingpresent: anintermediary for the other Directors when necessary: Q ensuring effective communication with shareholders and other Q meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman stakeholders, and that their views are understood by the Board: and being present at least annually and leading the Board in the Q maintaining an effective working relationship with the ongoing monitoring and annual performance evaluation of ChiefExecutive.
theChairman: Chief Executive Q monitoring the training and development requirements of In addition to being a Board member accountable to the Company, Directors: and shareholders and other stakeholders, the key roles and responsibilities Q availability to meet with a range of major shareholders when of the Chief Executive include: requested, to develop a balanced understanding of their issues Q ensuring the creation and maintenance of a safe working and concerns and reporting the outcome of such meetings at environment and a safety-focused culture across the Group: subsequent Board meetings.
Q leading the management team in the day-to-day running of the Non-Executive Directors Groups business: The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong independent element Q developing the Groups objectives and strategy having regard tothe Board and a solid foundation for good corporate governance.
totheGroups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, Although all Directors are equally accountable under the law for the employees and other stakeholders: stewardship of the Companys affairs, the Non-Executive Directors Q fulla vital role in corporate accountability.
They have responsibility for establishing and maintaining an organisational structure that constructively challenging the strategies proposed by the Executive willenable the Groups strategy to be implemented effectively: Directors, scrutinising the performance of management in achieving Q responsibility to the Board for the performance of the business, agreed goals and objectives, as well as playing a leading role in the consistent with agreed plans, strategies and policies: functioning of the main Board committees.
Between them, the Q currentNon-Executive Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, developing through investment and divestment an appropriate experience, knowledge and independent judgement gained through asset base for the Group to execute its strategy: experience in a variety of business sectors.
Q developing and promoting effective communication with shareholders and other interested parties: Board Committees Q The four principal Committees of the Board are: Audit: Board Safety: ensuring at all times that the Group conducts its business in Nomination: and Remuneration.
Board Committee members are accordance with the legal requirements of the countries in appointed by the Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination whichitoperates and the Companys standards, if higher: Committee, which reviews the composition of each Committee Q planning human resourcing to ensure the Company has the regularly.
The Committee memberships are spread between the capabilities and resources required to achieve its plans: Non-Executive Directors, drawing on each of their relevant skills Q establishing a senior management team which has the andexperience.
knowledge, skills, attitude and motivation to achieve the Groups Committee members are expected to attend each Committee meeting, business objectives both now and in the future: unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from Q developing and maintaining an effective framework of internal doing so.
Only members of the Committees are entitled to attend their controls over risk in relation to all business activities: meetings, but others may attend at the Committees request.
Q managing the Groups risk profile in line with what is deemed The terms of reference of each Committee are available to view on the acceptable by the Board: and Companys website www.
com and on request from the Q ensuring the Board is kept appraised in a timely manner of the Company Secretary at the Companys registered ofce.
The terms of issues facing the Group and of events and developments as reference are normally reviewed annually.
62 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Board Committee membership his or her own beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the ultimate The current membership of the Boards Committees is shown in good of the Company and there are no business or other relationships the table below: likely to affect, or which could appear to affect, the judgement of Warwick Brady, Drummond Hall, Wolfhart Hauser, Brian Wallace, Audit Board Safety Nomination Remuneration Imelda Walsh or Jim Winestock.
The Board carries out a review of Director Committee Committee Committee Committee theindependence of its Directors on an annual basis.
Mick Barker is John McFarlane C not considered by the Board to be independent as he is an employee Tim OToole of one of the Groups subsidiaries.
The Board considers, however, that Chris Surch it is extremely beneficial for its employees to be represented on the Mick Barker M Board in this way as it enables employee-related issues to be raised Warwick Brady M directly at the Board and provides a two-way communication between Drummond Hall M M the Board and employees.
Wolfhart Hauser M Commitment Brian Wallace C M All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and each Imelda Walsh MM C Committee meeting for which they are members, save for in exceptional Jim Winestock M C M circumstances.
To help enable this, scheduled Board andCommittee C: Chair of Committee meetings are arranged at least a year in advance to allow Directors to M: Member of Committee manage other commitments.
If a Director is unable toattend a meeting because of exceptional circumstances, he or she still receives the Effectiveness papers and other relevant information in advance of themeeting and Board balance and independence has the opportunity to discuss with the relevant Chairor the Company Effective management and good stewardship of the Group are led Secretary any matters he or she wishes to raise and to follow up on the bythe Board.
The Board is currently comprised of the Chairman, decisions taken at the meeting.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and twoExecutive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
John Company Secretary are always available to discuss issues relating McFarlane will step down from the Chairmanship and Board at the tomeetings or other matters with the Directors.
Reasons for conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and will be succeeded by non-attendance are generally prior business and personal Wolfhart Hauser.
The balance of Directors on the Board ensures that commitments orillness.
no individual or small group of Directors can dominate the decisionThe Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors is able making process and that the interests of the minority shareholders to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
Biographies of all current Directors are set out on Directors are advised on appointment of the time required to full the pages56 and 57. role and are asked to confirm that they can make the required It is the Companys policy that at least half the Board should be commitment.
One of the key criteria considered for the appointment independent Non-Executive Directors.
Other than Mick Barker, the ofthe new Chairman was whether the candidate would be able to Board considers each of its current Non-Executive Directors to be devote sufficient time to the role.
independent in character and judgement.
In reaching its determination of independence, the Board has concluded that each provides objective challenge to management, is willing to stand up and defend Length of tenure Board composition 0-2 years 5 Chairman 1 2-4 years 4 Executive Directors 2 4-6 years 1 Independent Non-Executive Directors 6 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 1 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Corporate governance report continued The attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings, which they To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of the views were eligible to attend, and the number of meetings attended in the ofshareholders, the Board receives regular reports on shareholder year ended 31 March 2015 is shown below: sentiment at Board meetings.
Number of scheduled Number of Although not part of their induction programme, all Non-Executive Board meetings eligible scheduled Board Directors can attend shareholder meetings and analyst presentations, Director to attend meetings attended and shareholders may meet informally with Directors at the Chairman AnnualGeneral Meeting.
John McFarlane 8 8 Information and support Executive Directors The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for Tim OToole 8 8 advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring that Chris Surch 8 8 Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are Non-Executive Directors complied with and that due account is taken of relevant codes of best Mick Barker 8 8 practice.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring 1 David Begg 22 communication ows between the Board and its Committees, and 2,3 Warwick Brady 75 between senior management and Non-Executive Directors.
All 2 Drummond Hall 77 Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and, 1 Colin Hood 22 inappropriate circumstances, may obtain independent professional 1 John Sievwright 22 advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment and removal of Brian Wallace 8 8 the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
2,3 Imelda Walsh 76 Jim Winestock 8 8 All Directors receive detailed papers and other relevant information on the business to be conducted at each Board or Committee meeting 1 David Begg, Colin Hood and John Sievwright stepped down as Directors well in advance and all Directors have direct access to senior on24June 2014.
2 management should they wish to receive additional information on Warwick Brady, Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh were appointed Directors on24 June 2014. anyof the items for discussion.
The head of each division attends 3 Warwick Brady was unable to attend two meetings and Imelda Walsh one Board meetings on a regular basis to ensure that the Board is meeting due to other unavoidable commitments arranged prior to joining properlyinformed about the performance of that division and any theBoard.
Directors are provided between meetings with Development relevant information on matters affecting the business.
Such updates On appointment, all new Directors receive a comprehensive and were carried out by a variety of methods, including conference calls structured induction, tailored to their individual requirements.
The amongst the full Board or between the Chairman and or the Chief induction programme, which is arranged by the Company Secretary, Executive and the Non-Executive Directors, and by way of the includes visits to the Groups businesses and meetings with senior Company Secretary circulating monthly financial results as well managers and advisers, as appropriate.
The programme is designed aspapers and updates on relevant issues.
tofacilitate their understanding of the Group, the key drivers of Throughout the year a fully encrypted electronic portal system was businessperformance, the role of the Board and its Committees, operated, which enabled the Board and Committee papers to be theCompanys corporate governance practices and procedures, delivered securely to the Directors.
This enables a faster and more aswell as providing them with appropriate training and guidance secure distribution of information, accessed using electronic tablets, astotheir duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a and reduced resource usage.
The Company Secretary is Robert Welch, who joined the Group To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there are in2014.
Robert Welch is secretary to all of the Board Committees, procedures in place to provide them with appropriate and timely exceptthe Audit Committee and Board Safety Committee.
The information, including receiving information between meetings secretary to the Audit Committee and Board Safety Committee regarding Group business development and financial performance.
isEileen Malcolmson, Deputy Company Secretary.
This enables the Directors to discharge their duties on strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance issues effectively.
Conicts of interest Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular The Directors have a statutory duty under the Companies Act 2006 issuesare provided.
toavoid situations in which they have or can have a direct or indirect interest that conicts or may conict with the interests of the Company.
All Directors are provided with the opportunity for, and encouraged to This duty is in addition to the existing duty that a Director owes to the attend, training to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant legal and Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement financial developments or changes in best practice.
Typical training for under consideration by the Company.
The Companys conict of Directors includes attendance at seminars, forums, conferences and interest procedures are reected in the Articles of Association.
In line working groups as well as receiving updates from relevant bodies on with that Act, the Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors various legal, regulatory and corporate governance matters.
to authorise conicts and potential conicts of interest where 64 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance appropriate.
The decision to authorise a conict can only be made During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings with bynon-conicted Directors.
Directors do not participate in decisions Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors being present.
concerning their own remuneration or interests.
The Senior Independent Director also led the Non-Executive Directors in evaluating the performance of the Chairman.
The Company Secretary minutes the consideration of any conict or potential conict of interest and authorisations granted by the Board.
Election and re-election of Directors On an ongoing basis, the Directors inform the Company Secretary of Directors newly appointed by the Board are required to submit any new, actual or potential conict of interest that may arise or if there themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting are any changes in circumstances that may affect an authorisation following their appointment.
Wolfhart Hauser having been appointed previously given.
Even when authorisation is given, a Director is not asa Director on 18 May 2015, will retire and submit himself for election absolved from his duty to promote the success of the Company.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with best practice and the Code, all other Directors will be submitted for Furthermore, the Companys Articles of Association include provisions re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, save for relating to condential information, attendance at Board meetings and JohnMcFarlane who will be stepping down from the Board at the availability of Board papers to protect a Director from breaching his or conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and her duty if a conict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply thereforewill not be seeking re-election.
where the circumstance giving rise to the potential conict of interest has previously been authorised by the Directors.
UK Bribery Act The Group is committed to the highest standards of integrity and Performance evaluation professionalism in all its activities.
In line with this commitment, and The Board undertakes regular evaluations of its own performance asrequired by the Group Code of Business Ethics, an anti-bribery aswell as that of its Committees.
The last externally conducted policy has been implemented which applies to all employees across Boardperformance evaluation was conducted in 2014 by the Group.
The policy addresses areas such as corporate gifts and IndependentBoard Evaluation.
hospitality, facilitation payments, breach reporting, risk assessments and training.
A Board evaluation was commenced in March 2015, facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation, in respect of the year ended 31 March In 2014, a refreshed anti-bribery training programme was delivered to 2015.
The process was carefully structured but pragmatic, designed allemployees whose role and or seniority puts them at risk.
Procedures tobring about a genuine debate on issues that were relevant, check are in place to ensure that new employees and existing employees, who onprogress against matters identied in the previous evaluation and switch roles, also receive this training as appropriate.
Each business assist in identifying any potential for improvement in the Companys unitand Group function is required to complete annual risk assessments processes.
It entailed interviews with each of the Directors and the in relation to anti-bribery and fraud.
A 24-hour seven-days-a-week Company Secretary on the performance of the Board, its Committees condential reporting hotline to report any concerns, including those and its Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the preparation of relating to bribery or corruption, is available to allemployees.
The results of the performance evaluation were presented and discussed at the June 2015 Board meeting and Accountability therefore will be disclosed in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board is responsible for promoting the long term success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders.
This includes ensuring that As set out in last years Annual Report and Accounts, an external anappropriate system of governance is in place throughout the Group.
Board performance evaluation process was undertaken in mid-2014.
Todischarge this responsibility, the Board has established a framework The results of the Board performance evaluation report were presented for risk management and internal control which identies, evaluates and at the May 2014 Board meeting and it was concluded that the culture manages the significant risks associated with the Groups achievement of the Board was changing and becoming more effective.
The main of its business objectives, with a view to safeguarding the shareholders areas identied for improvement and corresponding actions taken investment and the Groups assets.
during 2014 15 were as follows: The Groups internal control system is bespoke to the Companys Area identied Action taken particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, and is designed Board composition The Board initiated a recruitment process tomanage rather than eliminate risk.
Due to the limitations inherent in and diversity andappointed three new Non-Executive any system of internal control, this system provides reasonable, but Directors, Warwick Brady, Drummond Hall notabsolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control is reviewed Succession planning A detailed review of Executive Directors and by the Board annually.
The Board confirms that throughout the year senior executives, facilitated by Spencer Stuart, ended 31 March 2015 and up to the date of approval of this Annual was conducted in 2014 identifying the skills, Report and Accounts, there have been processes in place to identify, attributes, development needs and potential of each person.
evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Company is aware that Management of The format of the agenda was amended to focus the FRC published a revised edition of the UK Corporate Governance Board meetings and on the key priorities of the Group and allow Code in September 2014, together with its Guidance on Risk focus of discussion greater time to discuss and debate these issues.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Corporate gover finance report continued Q Management and Internal Control.
Accordingly, the Company is a centrally coordinated internal audit programme to support the reviewing its internal control and risk management policies and Board in the requirement to ensure a sound control environment: procedures to take account of these changes and it is anticipated Q a confidential reporting system to allow employees to raise thatitwill report on any changes made in the 2016 Annual Report concerns about possible legal, regulatory, financial reporting or andAccounts.
any other improprieties: The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Q regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
effectiveness of internal controls: Toassist in the identication and management of key risks, the Q a Board sponsored Risk Group comprising representatives from Boardhas: major functions and presentations from relevant divisional senior Q established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and management, which reviews the identification and assessment standards: ofkey risks and controls: and Q set up a framework for reporting matters of significance: Q a remuneration policy for executives which motivates them, without delivering excessive benefits or encouraging excessive Q authorised the Audit Committee to review the Groups approach risk-taking.
torisk management and the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control and assurance systems: Reviews of internal controls within operating units by internal audit have Q developed a system of regular reports from management: and sometimes highlighted control weaknesses, which are discussed with management and remedial action plans are agreed.
Where appropriate, Q reserved specific key matters for its decision.
follow up visits to the operating entity then confirm that the action plans have been completed and that the controls that have been put in place The process is designed to provide assurance by way of are working effectively.
No material losses, contingencies or cumulativeassessment.
uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Annual Report Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which have andAccounts have been identied during the year by this process.
operated throughout the year are: The Board, in conjunction with management, continues to review Q a clearly defined organisation structure with established anddevelop the internal control environment where appropriate.
responsibilities: Q a focused business strategy, thus restricting potential risk The Groups approach to risk management and how it proles exposures: therisksidentied is set out on pages 44.
Q Group financial, treasury, operating, compliance and administrative Financial and business reporting policies and procedures which incorporate statements of required In its reporting to shareholders the Board recognises its responsibility to behaviour: present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups Q position and prospects.
This responsibility encompasses all published continuous review of safety, operating and financial performance information including, but not limited to: the year-end and half-yearly of the Groups businesses: financial statements: regulatory news announcements: and other public Q regular reports to the Board, Board Safety Committee and information.
The Board considers this Annual Report and Accounts, Executive Safety Committee on safety matters: taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides Q monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, the information necessary for shareholders to assess theCompanys including monthly results, periodic short term forecasts, annual performance, business model and strategy.
budgets and a five-year plan: The quality of the Companys reporting is ensured by having in Q approval by the Board of all major investments, with proposals placeprocedures for the review of information by management.
being subject to rigorous strategic, financial and commercial Thereare also strict procedures determining who has authority to examination: release information.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities for Q divisions identifying and reviewing their significant risks and preparing the financial statements can be found on page 104. controls for monitoring and managing risks, which are reviewed by The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system senior executive management.
Theupdated divisional and Group whichcomplies with generally accepted accounting practice.
risk profiles, which are reviewed by the Chief Executive and Group AGroupFinance Manual details the Groups accounting policies Finance Director, are presented to the AuditCommittee: andprocedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
Budgets Q an established methodology for ranking the level of risk in each areprepared by subsidiary company management which are then ofits business operations and the significant risk issues consolidated into divisional budgets.
These are subject to review associated therewith: byboth senior management and the Executive Directors followed Q byformal approval by the Board.
Regular forecast updates are implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with significant completed during the year and compared against actions required.
risks, including measures such as insurance and the use of external specialists: 66 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of operating performance The Executive Directors are available, through the Corporate Services with a commentary on variances against budget and prior year, which Director, to discuss the concerns of major shareholders at any time is reviewed by the executive senior management team.
Similar during the year and the Chairman is available to discuss governance reportsare prepared at a Group level.
Key performance indicators, and strategy with major shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors make both financial and operational, are monitored on a weekly basis.
In themselves available to attend meetings with shareholders in order to addition, business units participate in strategic reviews, which include develop an understanding of their views.
consideration of long term financial projections and the evaluation The Company responds as necessary to requests from individual ofbusiness alternatives.
shareholders on a wide range of issues.
There is regular dialogue with Treasury operations key institutional shareholders, fund managers and sell-side analysts The Board has set a policy for the management of the risks from todiscuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities treasury operations and this is set out in more detail in note 23 to the throughout the Group.
General presentations to shareholders and the consolidated financial statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has been wider financial community are made by the Chief Executive and Group formulated andadopted to ensure compliance with best practice and Finance Director following the announcement of trading updates and to control and monitor effectively the risks attendant upon treasury half and full-year results.
Specic consultations have been carried out andbankingoperations.
with leading shareholders during the year on the appointment of thenew Chairman and the new remuneration policy.
Internal audit Internal audit advises management on the extent to which systems Investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, ofinternal control are adequate and effective to manage business risk, appointments and other key announcements on an ongoing basis via safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance with legal the regulatory news service and press releases.
The Groups website and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance on risk www.
com contains all of this information together and controls to senior management and the Audit Committee.
withnancial reports, presentations and other information on the Groups operations.
Internal audits work is focused on the Groups significant risks.
The mandate and programme of work of the internal audit department is Annual General Meeting approved by the Audit Committee.
Based on the approved audit plan, The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders a number of internal audits took place across the Groups divisions at least 20 working days prior to such meeting and it is Company policy toreview internal controls, identify any weaknesses and facilitate not to combine resolutions.
All shareholders are invited to attend the improvement of the Groups internal controls.
Reports on the findings Annual General Meeting where there is an opportunity for individual ofinternal audit are provided to relevant operational management and shareholders to question the Chairman and, through him, the Chairs the Audit Committee receives at each of its meetings reports from the ofthe principal Board Committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, Group Director of Internal Audit on the departments work and findings.
shareholders can meet informally with the Directors.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman provides a brief summary Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal of the Companys activities for the previous year to shareholders and controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve the Chief Executive provides a business update.
All resolutions at the theissues raised.
Internal audit follows up on the implementation of 2014 Annual General Meeting were voted on by way of a poll.
The recommendations and reports on progress to senior management procedure for voting on a poll follows best practice and allows the andthe Audit Committee.
Company to count all votes rather than just those of the shareholders The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed by the attending the meeting.
This is done by the review of the internal audit plan As recommended by the Code, all resolutions proposed at the 2014 ofwork for the year and monitoring progress against the plan and Annual General Meeting were voted separately and the voting results, actions identied by internal audit.
which included all votes cast for, against and those withheld, together Relations with shareholders with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were announced to the As set out in the Chairmans Governance Statement commencing London Stock Exchange and made available on the Companys onpage 58, the Board welcomes the opportunity to openly and website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous years, purposefully engage with shareholders as it recognises the the Form of Proxy clearly advised that a vote withheld is not a vote in importanceof a continuing effective dialogue, whether with major law and is not used in calculating the votes for or against a resolution.
institutional shareholders, private or employee shareholders.
TheBoardtakes responsibility for ensuring that such dialogue takesplace and recognises that regular dialogue is particularly important while the plans to transform the Groups financial performance are ongoing.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are closely involved in investor relations, and the Corporate Services Director has day-to-day responsibility for such matters.
Feedback from shareholders is provided at Board meetings.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Corporate gover finance report continued Role and responsibilities Nomination Committee The key roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to: Q regularly review the structure, size and composition including skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, including gender of the Board and make recommendations totheBoard with regard to any changes: Q identify and nominate for Board approval, candidates to fill Board vacancies having regard to, amongst other things, the benefits ofdiversity including gender, as and when they arise: Q recommend to the Board suitable candidates for the role of Senior Dear fellow shareholder Independent Director, and membership of the Board Committees: As this will be my final report as Chairman Q ensure that the Companys Board and executive leadership skills of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased are fully aligned to the Companys long term strategy: Q to report on how the Committee has oversee succession planning for Directors and other senior executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities continued to undertake its role.
facing the Company, and the skills and experience that will be The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process for needed on the Board in the future: Board appointments and for keeping under review the balance of skills, Q ensure any appointees have sufficient time to undertake their role: experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, including gender, Q recommend the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at on the Board to ensure the orderly evolution of the membership of the the conclusion of their specified term of office having given regard Board and its Committees.
In identifying and nominating candidates for to their length of tenure, performance and ability to continue to approval by the Board, the Committee continues to take account of the contribute to the Board in the light of the skills, experience, Boards aims in relation to diversity, whilst ensuring that the right people independence and knowledge required: with the right range of skills and experience are on the Board and in senior management positions in the coming years.
Q recommend the re-election by shareholders of any Director in accordance with the provisions of the Code having due regard The Committee has had a busy year, securing the appointment tohis or her performance and ability to continue to contribute ofanew Chairman and three new Non-Executive Directors, details tothe Board taking into consideration the skills, experience ofwhichwere provided in last years Annual Report and Accounts, andknowledge required and the need for progressive andrefreshing the membership of the Board Committees.
refreshingoftheBoard: and As previously reported I will be stepping down both as Chairman of Q report formally to the Board on how the Committee has theBoard and of the Committee at the conclusion of the Companys discharged its responsibilities.
I am delighted that Wolfhart When considering the recruitment of a new Director: the Committee Hauser will replace me in both roles.
prepares a full description of the role, skills and capabilities required: appoints external search rms, each time reviewing available options, John McFarlane and ensuring that the rm selected has signed up to the relevant Chair, Nomination Committee industry codes for example, on diversity and has no connection withthe Company: and nally, engages from time-to-time with the Groups major shareholders on future skills requirements and ideas forpotential candidates.
The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, which comprises the Employee Directors of the Companys UK subsidiaries, and serves a maximum of three, three-year terms.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website www.
68 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Membership and meetings Activities in 2014 15 The current members of the Committee are: At its meetings in 2014 15, the Committee considered, amongst other John McFarlane, Chair matters, the following: Drummond Hall Q selecting and recommending to the Board a new Non-Executive Wolfhart Hauser Chairman: Brian Wallace Q selecting and recommending to the Board the appointment Imelda Walsh ofthree new Non-Executive Directors: Jim Winestock Q recommending to the Board the appointment of Drummond Hall The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Company and the as Senior Independent Director: members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors, Q recommending to the Board the appointment of Jim Winestock in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
If a matter were asChair of the Board Safety Committee and Imelda Walsh as toconcern the Chairman, then he would leave the meeting and Chair of the Remuneration Committee: and Drummond Hall, as Senior Independent Director, would instead takethe Chair.
Q recommending to the Board the appointment of: Warwick Brady and Jim Winestock as members of the Audit Committee: Mick Tim OToole attends meetings of the Committee at the invitation of Barker and Imelda Walsh as members of the Board Safety theChairman of the Committee.
Mick Barker also attends meetings Committee: Drummond Hall as a member of the Remuneration atthe invitation of the Chairman of the Committee to represent the Committee: Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh as members, and Groups employees.
Wolfhart Hauser as a member and Chairman designate, of the NominationCommittee.
Members of the Committee took no part in any discussions concerning their own membership of the Board or appointment as a Chair of a Recruitment of Chairman of the Board Committee, but were involved in the recommendations on Committee Following the announcement by John McFarlane that he would be membership changes.
stepping down as Chairman of the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Committee commenced Committee attendance theprocess for the appointment of a successor.
The process to identify The table below shows the Committee members during 2014 15 a new Non-Executive Chair commenced in September 2014 and was andtheir attendance at Committee meetings: led by Drummond Hall, as Senior Independent Director.
In accordance Number of scheduled Number of scheduled with best practice, John McFarlane was not involved in the selection Committee meetings Committee meetings process, but was consulted for views and insights into the role.
Committee member eligible to attend attended A comprehensive and rigorous search process was put in place John McFarlane, Chair 3 3 2 withacandidate prole and position specication prepared including Drummond Hall 33 timecommitment expected, experience, ability to lead the Board, Brian Wallace 3 3 2,3 abilitytobe the public face of the Company with investors and other Imelda Walsh 32 3 stakeholders, overall responsibility for corporate governance and Jim Winestock 32 abilityto ensure matters of safety, strategy, performance and finance 1 David Begg, Colin Hood and John Sievwright stood down from the Committee were appropriately implemented by the management team.
There are no meetings held between 1 April 2014 and 24June2014.
JCA Group, an external search consultancy, was engaged to assist 2 Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh were appointed members of the Committee withthe selection process and conducted a search to identify suitable, on 24 June 2014.
JCA Group held meetings with all current Imelda Walsh and Jim Winestock were unable to attend one Committee meeting each due to other unavoidable commitments.
Directors to assess their opinion on the attributes required for the new Non-Executive Chair.
JCA Group has no other connection with the Nomination Committee performance evaluation Group apart from the provision of senior executive recruitment services.
As part of the Boards annual performance review, an assessment ofthe Committees performance was commenced in March 2015, An initial candidate list was reduced to a shortlist by Drummond Hall facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation, in respect of the year and JCA Group following consultations with each Committee member, ended 31 March 2015.
The results of the performance assessment forconsideration by the Committee.
A number of interviews and were presented and discussed at the June 2015 Board meeting and meetings were then held with shortlisted candidates.
As Wolfhart therefore will be disclosed in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
Hauser emerged as the preferred candidate, he had the opportunity to meet most of the Directors and a number of discussions were held with major investors who responded positively on the proposed appointment.
In addition to regular communications with Directors individually, the Board was kept informed of developments and Directors were given the opportunity to share their feedback on Wolfhart Hauser before unanimously approving his appointment.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Corporate gover finance report continued Diversity Audit Committee The Company takes account of diversity when recruiting, including when it considers Board appointments, and will continue to do so inthe future.
All appointments to the Board are made on merit and relevant experience, against the criteria identied by the Committee, having regard to the benets of diversity, including gender.
The Board recognises the need to create the conditions that foster talent and encourage more women to achieve their full potential in their careers in the Group.
As part of an overall approach to human resource management a framework has been developed which includes an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy as well as posters, training and Dear fellow shareholder promotional videos to support its communication across the Group.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, Inaddition, focus groups have been held in the UK to discuss the I am pleased to present the report of the policyand better understand the challenges employees face, which willhelp in shaping future diversity and inclusion programmes.
Audit Committee for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Whilst the Board is currently below its target of 25% female representation at 11%, it remains committed to achieving that During the period the Committee has monitored the integrity of the goalassoon as practicable.
Groups financial statements, including the significant financial reporting judgements, reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, reviewed the divisional and Group risk proles and monitored the effectiveness, performance and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
In addition to these core responsibilities, the Committee spent time appointing a new lead external audit partner from Deloitte and undertook an in depth reviewofthe Insurance function.
The Committee continues to work closely with the Group Director ofInternal Audit to ensure the delivery of a comprehensive internal auditplan which addresses the Groups key risks and controls.
TheCommittee further considered its approach to external tendering and this is set out in further details in this report.
Looking forward to 2015 16, the Committee will keep its agenda underreview to ensure it addresses the right issues.
We will continue tomonitor and respond to the changing regulatory environment and, inparticular, the provisions of the revised edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the FRC in September 2014 relating torisk, going concern and liabilities which willapply to the Company forthe financial year ending 31 March 2016.
Brian Wallace Chair, Audit Committee 70 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance At the beginning of each meeting the Committee normally meets with Role and responsibilities the external auditor and twice a year with the Group Director of Internal The Committee acts independently of management to ensure that the Audit, without management present, to discuss any matters relating to interests of shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial their remit and any matters arising from external and internal audits.
The reporting, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control Committee also met during the year with the Group Finance Director and risk management, and in maintaining an appropriate relationship todiscuss the strength of the Finance function.
The key responsibilities of the Committee areto: Committee attendance Q review the significant issues and judgements of management, The table below shows the Committee members during 2014 15 and themethodology and assumptions used in relation to the Groups their attendance at Committee meetings: financial statements and the integrity of the preliminary and half-yearly announcements onthe Groups financial performance: Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Committee meetings Committee meetings Q review the Groups going concern assumption: Committee member eligible to attend attended Q review and oversee the Groups relationship with the external Brian Wallace, Chair 4 4 1 auditor, monitoring its independence and objectivity: David Begg 11 2, 3 Warwick Brady 31 Q review the activities, findings, conclusions and recommendations 1 Colin Hood 11 of the external auditor, alongside its reporting to the Committee, 1 John Sievwright 11 the management representation letter and the final audit report: 2 Jim Winestock 33 Q consider and make recommendations to the Board in respect 1 ofthe appointment, re-appointment, dismissal or resignation, David Begg, Colin Hood and John Sievwright stood down from the Committee on 24 June 2014. effectiveness and remuneration of the external auditor: 2 Warwick Brady and Jim Winestock were appointed to the Committee Q assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control on24June 2014.
3 and risk management, including financial reporting, financial Warwick Brady was unable to attend two meetings due to other unavoidable commitments arranged prior to joining the Committee.
controls and the internal audit function: and Q report formally to the Board on how the Committee has Audit Committee performance evaluation discharged its responsibilities.
As part of the Boards annual performance review, an assessment ofthe Committees performance was commenced in March 2015, Revised Terms of Reference of the Committee were adopted in facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation, in respect of the year October 2014 following an annual refresh.
The full terms of reference ended 31 March 2015.
The results of the performance assessment ofthe Committee can be found on the Companys website were presented and discussed at the June 2015 Board meeting and www.
therefore will be disclosed in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
Membership and meetings Activities in 2014 15 The current members of the Committee are: At its meetings in 2014 15, the Committee considered and Brian Wallace, Chair dischargedits responsibilities on the following matters: Warwick Brady Jim Winestock Integrity of reported financial information Q following a review by senior executive management, assessed Brian Wallace has recent and relevant financial experience, being theGroups full-year and half-yearly results, and considered the achartered accountant and having held a number of senior finance significant accounting policies, principal estimates and accounting roles.
The other Committee members have significant current or judgements used in their preparation and the transparency and recentexecutive experience in the transport and distribution industries.
clarity of disclosures within them: This range and depth of financial and commercial experience enables the Committee to deal effectively with the matters it is required Q reviewed the matters which informed the Boards assessment that toaddress and to challenge management when necessary.
The it was appropriate to prepare accounts on a going concern basis: ChiefExecutive, Group Finance Director, Group Employee Director, Q reviewed reports from the external auditor on its audit in respect Company Secretary, Director of Finance, Group Director of ofthe full-year and review of the half-yearly results prior to them InternalAudit and the external auditors are normally invited to being signed on behalf of the Board: and attendCommittee meetings.
In addition, Divisional Finance Q Directorsand Heads of Group functions are regularly invited reviewed and assessed the process by which the Annual Report topresentto the Committee.
and Accounts, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Corporate gover finance report continued Internal control, risk management and internal audit Other activities Q Q reviewed the design and effectiveness of the Groups system reviewed the terms of reference of the Committee and ofinternal control and the disclosures made in the Annual recommended certain changes to the Board to ensure they Reportand Accounts on this matter: wereup to date and reflected relevant UK Corporate Governance Codeprovisions: Q reviewed and challenged the Groups significant risks identified Q bymanagement in the Group risk map, and reviewed the received reports on governance and regulatory changes: and effectiveness of the risk management processes followed Q received a report on matters raised on the confidential reporting bythedivisions and at Group level: system and the process for the investigation of such matters to Q monitored and assessed the Groups insurance arrangements: ensure that confidential arrangements are in place by which employees may raise concerns about possible legal, regulatory Q approved the annual internal audit plan and reviewed reports from orother improprieties in matters of financial reporting and the Internal Audit department relating to control matters.
against the internal audit plan was monitored and any deviations tothe plan were agreed, and considered reports on resourcing Policy on the provision of non-audit services and expertise of the Internal Audit department: The Committees policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit Q approved revised delegated authority limits for capital expenditure: services includes the identication of non-audit services which may beprovided and those prohibited, and a process through which other Q approved new terms of reference of the Internal Audit department: non-audit services may be provided.
The policy can be summarised Q received reports from the Group Legal Director on litigation asfollows: matters: and Q Audit-related services the external auditor can be invited to Q reviewed the Groups approach to cyber risk, disaster recovery provide services, which in its position as external auditor, it must and business continuity planning.
oris best placed to undertake as it is clearly audit related.
These include review of half-yearly and other interim financial information, External auditor advice on correct accounting treatment of proposed transactions Q approved the terms of engagement of the external auditor, the and reporting on regulatory returns.
fees paid to them and the scope of work carried out by them: Q Permitted non-audit services there are a number of projects or Q considered and approved a policy on the independence and engagements where the external auditor is best placed to perform objectivity of the external auditor, and recommended for approval the work due to their skills and knowledge of the business, or by the Board policies on the use of the external auditor for experience and market leadership in a particular area.
These are non-audit services and the employment of former employees set out in the policy and include providing tax compliance advice, ofthe external auditor: formalities relating to shareholder circulars and various other regulatory reports, and professional training.
Before engaging in Q reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the external any work of this type, approval is required from the Group Finance auditorin respect of the previous financial year: Director, with services likely to cost more than 125,000 requiring Q assessed the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
the approval of the Committee.
In assessing independence and objectivity, the Committee Q Other permitted non-audit services for those projects or considered the level and nature of service provided by the external engagements which are not covered by the permitted non-audit auditor as well as confirmation from the external auditor that it has services category and where the external auditor is best placed remained independent within the meaning of the APB Ethical toprovide them, approval is required from the Group Finance Standards for Auditors: Director, with services likely to cost more than 75,000 requiring Q received reports on the findings of the external auditor during the approval of the Committee.
In addition, the Committee shall thehalf-yearly review and annual audit, and reviewed the consider whether a tender should be conducted before awarding recommendations made to management by the external such work to the external auditor.
auditorand managements responses: Q Not permitted there are some projects that are not to be Q following a thorough selection process, approved the performed by the external auditor because these projects appointmentof a new lead audit partner: and wouldrepresent a threat to the independence of the audit team, Q for example where the external auditor is remunerated through recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the asuccess fee or where the project could lead to the external externalauditor.
auditor being in a position of auditing their own work or making management decisions for the Company or its subsidiaries.
72 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process significant issues The Audit Committee manages the relationship with the external The external audit process identies significant issues and accounting auditor, on behalf of the Board.
During 2014 15, the effectiveness judgements which are reviewed by the Committee.
These are oftheexternal audit process was reviewed by the Committee and summarised in the table below.
Management prepared papers thendings reported to the Board.
This involved an initial assessment andanalysis on the significant issues and judgements which were of the delivery and performance of the external auditor against the discussed in Committee meetings during the year.
The Committee external audit plan for the year, which includes the reports and updates alsodiscussed these issues with the external auditor at the half year provided to the Committee.
An annual assessment was then carried and year end.
Allthe significant issues were also areas of focus for out by the Committee, taking into account the results of questionnaires theexternal auditoras detailed in the auditors report.
completed by each of the divisions and Group management.
These questionnaires covered a variety of topics including: the audit partners and team: the planning and execution of the audit approach: and insights and added value provided by the audit process.
Feedback from the annual assessment was shared with the external auditor so that any areas for improvement could be followed up.
The Committee concluded that the external audit process was effective overall.
significant issues and judgements How the Audit Committee addressed these issues Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Management exercises a significant amount of judgement The Committee has considered the inputs for the impairment test model.
during the impairment testing process as it is based on an Thecash ow forecasts have been reviewed alongside past performance estimation of future cash ows and a suitable discount rate.
and committed operational changes to the business.
The discount rate hasbeen benchmarked to externally available data.
The growth rate assumptions have been applied in line with both market data and the macro-economic environment in the UK and North America.
Sensitivities tothe model inputs have been tested for reasonableness.
Legal provisions Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of The Committee has considered the assumptions used for estimating the thelikelihood and valuation of the expense required to settle valuation of provisions.
The legal issues are regularly reviewed, with the the relevant obligation and, where applicable, the discount related provisions being based on advice from external legal counsel.
rateused to calculate the expected settlement.
Self-insurance provisions Provisions are measured at managements best estimate The Committee has reviewed the provision and considered the assumptions ofthelikely settlement of all known incidents.
A valuation of the used to calculate the liability.
Independent actuarial expert advice on the expense required to settle the obligation and, where applicable, adequacy of the provisions against such liabilities is sought on a regular the discount rate is used to calculate the expected settlement.
basis and the discount rate has been benchmarked against external data.
Pensions The Group participates in a number of dened benefit pension Management has engaged with external experts and the Committee has schemes.
Management exercises significant judgement when considered the assumptions used for calculating the liability.
Sensitivity determining the assumptions used to value the pension analysis has been performed on the key assumptions which are: the liabilities as these are materially sensitive to changes in the discount rate: the ination rate: andthe mortality rates.
The overall liability underlying assumptions.
has also been assessed for reasonableness.
Revenue recognition Management must exercise judgement when determining the The Committee has reviewed the revenue recognition policies.
These recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value of related policies and their application are in line with accounting standards.
Regular assets and liabilities arising from franchises and long term forecasts are compiled on the outcome of these types of franchises and service contracts.
contracts to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions applied.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Corporate gover finance report continued External audit tendering Board Safety Committee As disclosed in last years Annual Report and Accounts, in light of changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to audit tendering and the publication of the FRC transitional guidance, the Committee agreed to review its approach to audit tendering in 2014 15.
The current external auditor, Deloitte LLP, was appointed in 1998 following a tendering process.
The Committee has undertaken a review of Deloittes performance every year since its appointment.
Following a thorough selection process, the Committee appointed a new lead audit partner in 2015, who will assume his role following the conclusion of the2014 15 audit.
As the Group implements its transformation plans, Dear fellow shareholder consistency of approach in the audit is considered to be of particular I have been impressed by FirstGroups importance.
The Company will not, therefore, be putting its audit out approach and dedication to creating a totender in the next year, but the Committee will review this annually.
strong safety culture throughout the Group In 2014, the Competition and Markets Authority set out a package of and its similarities to UPS, one of the largest remedies inresponse to its findings on its market investigation into the supply of statutory audit services.
One of its principal remedies is that global courier and providers of supply chain FTSE 350 companies must put their statutory audit engagement out management solutions, where I worked for totender at least every ten years.
Under the transitional arrangements proposed by the Competition and Markets Authority, FirstGroup would over 40 years, and where safety is ingrained be required to put its external audit out to tender by 31 March 2023. in the culture.
I was therefore delighted to Under the EU audit reform rules which become effective in 2016, the accept the role of the Chair of the Board mandatory rotation of external audit rms after ten years is required, Safety Committee and use my experience extendable to 20 years with a tender at the end of the initial ten year period by way of derogation from the UK Government.
Under the to further embed safety as a personal core transitional provisions set out in the rules, Deloittes last possible value throughout the Group.
auditof the Group would be for the year ending 31 March 2024.
The Board Safety Committee was established in 2013 14 to assist Based on the above, it would appear likely that a tender for external the Board in overseeing managements processes, standards and audit services and a change of external auditor will not be required strategies for managing safety commitments and responsibilities before 31 March 2023.
Notwithstanding these requirements, it remains across the Group as well as challenging the Group to review and the Committees intention to put the external audit out to tender during improve its operational safety performance and culture.
the new lead audit partners five year tenure, which is due to expire at The Committee met twice during the year, the Committees agenda the conclusion of the 2019 20 audit.
This means that the latest time the covered a range of safety issues including: reviewing a number of the external audit will be put out to tender is 2019 so that the process is Groups safety initiatives: the role of divisional safety committees: completed by the conclusion ofthe 2019 20 audit.
reviewing safety performance and the development of the Groups safety culture with a key focus on work conducted by Aubrey Daniels International, external safety advisers, on behavioural safety.
Going forward, there will be three scheduled meetings of the Committee a year.
In December 2014, I had the opportunity to join Tim OToole and over170 general managers at the Groups annual safety conference inLondon.
The key focus of the conference was on making safety a personal core value, with those attending required to make a personal commitment to changing their safety behaviour.
The safety conference, combined with the recommendations from Aubrey Daniels International, has resulted in a number of changes to the way the Group approaches safety, which I am confident will enhance its culture and performance going forward.
Jim Winestock Chair, Board Safety Committee 74 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Role and responsibilities Committee attendance The key responsibilities of the Board Safety Committee are to: The table below shows the Committee members during 2014 15 and their attendance at scheduled Committee meetings: Q keep under review the development and maintenance of a framework of policies and standards for managing safety Number of scheduled Number of scheduled risksandtheir impact on the Groups activities: Committee eligible to Committee meetings Committee member attend attended Q assess the impact of safety decisions and actions taken by the Jim Winestock, Chair 2 2 Group on its reputation, employees and other stakeholders: 2 Mick Barker 11 Q monitor and assess the commitment and behaviour 1 Colin Hood 11 ofmanagement towards safety-related risks: 1 Naveed Qamar 11 Q review safety performance and significant safety incidents, 1 Tim OToole 11 considering the key causes thereof and ensuring actions are 2, 3 Imelda Walsh 10 takenand communications made by management to prevent 1 similar incidents occurring in the future: Colin Hood, Naveed Qamar and Tim OToole stood down from the Committee on 24 June 2014.
Q make proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding 2 Mick Barker and Imelda Walsh were appointed members of the Committee on appropriate safety performance objectives for Executive Directors 24 June 2014.
3 and certain senior managers: Imelda Walsh was unable to attend a meeting of the Committee due to an unavoidable commitment arranged prior to joining the Committee.
Q review the findings of any internal or external reports on the Groups safety systems, assessing any strategies and action Board Safety Committee performance evaluation plansdeveloped by management in response to issues raised As part of the Boards annual performance review, an assessment and, where appropriate, making recommendations to the Board ofthe Committees performance was commenced in March 2015, on such matters: and facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation, in respect of the year Q ended 31 March 2015.
The results of the performance assessment report formally to the Board on how the Committee has were presented and discussed at the June 2015 Board meeting and discharged its responsibilities.
Membership and meetings Activities in 2014 15 The current members of the Committee are: At its meeting in 2014 15 the Committee considered, amongst other Jim Winestock, Chair matters, the following: Mick Barker Q reviewed safety performance in 2013 14 and targets for 2014 15: Imelda Walsh Q reviewed and evaluated the work of Aubrey Daniels International on improving the Groups safety culture and behavioural safety: Q monitored and evaluated a number of key safety initiatives: and Q reviewed the role of local safety committees.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75
