Fidessa group plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report continued Audit Committees report As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31st December 2015.
The Committee has focused on the integrity, completeness and clarity of financial reporting, the areas where judgements and estimates are required in the financial statements and the quality and effectiveness of audit processes to complement the other risk management activities.
There has been no significant change to these areas of focus during the year and the Committee will continue to monitor them.
John Worby Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership, meetings and evaluation The composition of the Committee remains unchanged from the end of 2014.
John Worby is the Chairman of the Committee and in line with the Code, John, who is a qualified accountant, has significant, recent and relevant financial experience serving as Group Finance Director of Genus plc until 2013 and through his other current and recent appointments, including his membership of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
In addition to John, the Committee comprises three non-executive directors, Ron Mackintosh, Elizabeth Lake and Ken Archer.
Accordingly, the Committee continues to comprise both financial and operational skills and experience.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chief Financial Officer attends the Committee meetings together with representatives of the external auditor and the internal auditor as appropriate.
In addition, the Committee meets with the external auditor and the internal auditor without management present at least once a year.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and updated annually and are available at www.
The Committees main responsibilities include: to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor, review and monitor the external auditors performance, expertise, independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness of the audit process and its scope: to assist the Board in monitoring the integrity, completeness and clarity of the financial statements and announcements relating to financial performance and to advise that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: to monitor the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices along with consistent treatment year to year: to monitor and review the internal financial controls and review the internal control and risk management systems: and to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review operational audit work undertaken by independent third parties.
Fidessa group plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Key matters considered in relation to the financial statements During 2015, the Committee reviewed the results of the external audit for the previous financial year, the external auditors half year review and the half year results, as well as the external audit plan for 2015.
In February 2016 the Committee reviewed the 2015 Annual Report including the financial statements contained within it, the Preliminary Results Announcement for the year end 31st December 2015 and reports from the external auditor on their audit of the financial statements and Annual Report.
The Committees prime areas of focus were: the integrity, completeness and consistency of financial reporting, including the adequacy, clarity and appropriateness of disclosures.
This included reviewing the 2015 Annual Report and concluding that it was fair, balanced and understandable: the areas where significant judgements and estimates are required in the financial statements: the scope and programme of external audit, along with the quality and effectiveness of the external audit processes: the materiality level used by the external auditor, concluding that it should be consistent with the previous year: whether the going concern basis of accounting should continue to apply in the preparation of the annual financial statements: considering the appropriateness of the viability statement: the appropriateness of the controls to reduce the risk of fraud and exposure to bribery and corruption: and the appropriateness of the whistleblowing procedures in place whereby staff may confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make assumptions, judgements and estimates and the material ones are detailed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
The key areas of assumptions, judgements and estimates that have been reviewed and considered by the Committee were: Revenue recognition in relation to significant implementations and contract amendments.
For the limited number of situations that required significant judgement the Committee received updates on the contractual terms, delivery progress, technical risks being faced, uncertainties still to be resolved, significant contractual changes and the customers situation.
As a result of their review, the Committee concluded that the judgements made, particularly in relation to revenue being deferred, were applicable in the circumstances.
Development costs and the continued approach to their capitalisation.
The Committee checked that the methodology and process were consistent with previous years, concurred that the short amortisation period of three years remained appropriate and that no impairments had arisen.
The tax complexity and risk related to the multinational operations of Fidessa and the areas of uncertainty that arise.
The Committee received updates from the Chief Financial Officer and reports from the external auditor in advance of the interim and preliminary results being approved.
These reports included the circumstances relating to tax provisions and their values.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of tax provisions, deferred tax assets and tax disclosures in relation to the updates and reports it had received and concluded that the treatment adopted was fair and reasonable.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets in connection with the acquisition of LatentZero in 2007 and the potential impairment of those assets.
The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires a review of the value in use of the asset.
The main judgements in relation to the review were considered to be the achievability of the long-term business plan, the potential impact on the business plan of macroeconomic and regulatory factors and the discount rate being applied to projected future cash flows.
The Committee reviewed reports from the Chief Financial Officer and from the external auditor on the value in use, discount rate and sensitivities applied to the value in use and concurred with the judgements associated with these calculations.
Fidessa group plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report continued External auditor The Committee conducted a review of the performance of the external auditor and concluded that it is satisfied that KPMG has continued to provide an effective audit service.
The review included consideration of independence and objectivity, appropriateness and quality of reporting to and interaction with the Committee, suitability of the audit plan and its areas of focus, execution and global coordination of the audit, and feedback from management and the finance team.
The Committee also reviewed observations made by the Audit Quality Review team of the Financial Reporting Council and the actions taken by the external auditor in response to such observations.
The Committee receives written confirmation from the external auditor of any relationships it has which may cause a conflict of interest, together with a declaration that it considers itself to be independent.
The Board has approved the external auditor undertaking very limited non-audit activities and any assignments outside these activities require separate Board approval.
The non-audit activity undertaken by the external auditor has been assistance on a limited number of tax matters in the reported periods.
The fees for non-audit activity represented 5% of the fees for audit activity.
Details of the external auditors fees including fees for non-audit work are set out in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
Following its review of the effectiveness of the external audit and independence of the external auditor, the Committee is satisfied that independence has been maintained and that it is appropriate to reappoint KPMG as the external auditor.
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that KPMG be reappointed as the external auditor for 2016 and a resolution for its appointment will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
It was agreed with KPMG during 2015 that the lead audit engagement partner would be changed.
The new audit partner has previously been involved in certain aspects of Fidessas audit and he will stand down under KPMGs lead partner rotation policy by no later than the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2019.
KPMG has been Fidessas external auditor since its stock market listing in 1997 and during that time the audit has not been formally tendered.
The Committee recognises the requirements regarding the retendering of audit services at least once every ten years for companies in the FTSE 350 and confirms that it will comply with the transitional arrangements published by the Competition and Markets Authority.
Given the recent appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer, the Committee believes that the most appropriate timing to conduct an audit tender would be at the time when the current audit partner is required to stand down i. e. in 2019, or earlier, if appropriate circumstances arise.
Fidessa is also cognisant of EU regulations which require a mandatory rotation of the Companys external auditor by 2020.
The Committee maintains appropriate contact with potential alternative suppliers for audit services.
Internal control The principal risks and uncertainties facing Fidessa are set out in the Strategic Report.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the internal control and risk management systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
As required by the Code, the Committee has reviewed the system of internal controls and risk management, as well as internal financial controls.
The Committee is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks and that this has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Fidessa has established risk management and internal control systems that are compliant with the current governance provisions.
Fidessa group plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Boards agenda includes a formal review of risk and risk management.
In addition, the Board regularly reviews reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer that address business issues including any relating to risk and risk management actions being taken or required to be taken by Fidessa.
Business unit performance, principal risks, risk management and internal control systems are monitored by regular Operating Board meetings.
Senior managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of principal risks applicable to their areas of business, together with the design and operation of suitable risk management and internal control systems.
The principal risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including competition, control weaknesses or failings, disruption in information systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The Governance, Risk and Compliance Committee, which comprises senior managers across Fidessa and is chaired by the Group General Counsel, has day to day responsibility for cyber security and oversight of the risk management activities and reports regularly to the Committee and to the Operating Board.
The Committee also reviews a report of the activities of the Governance, Risk and Compliance Committee.
Fidessa has developed and implemented a quality management system to document the Groups best business practices.
This system is independently audited on a regular basis and satisfies the requirements of the international standard ISO 9001.2008.
The system is reviewed by management on a six monthly basis to consider its continued suitability, adequacy and effectiveness.
Additionally, management regularly assesses the requirement to conduct additional external operational audits in the regions in which the Group operates, with the UK, US and Canadian operations continuing their track records of successfully completing the ISAE 3402 SSAE 16 audits during the year.
The directors believe these audits are particularly important to customers in enabling them to satisfy their SarbanesOxley, and other equivalent, requirements when using a Fidessa solution.
Fidessa has strong cash generation, a strong cash balance and no debt.
The controls over the use of the cash resources and the counterparty exposure of where it is deposited are determined by the treasury policy established by the Board.
A comprehensive budgetary process is completed once a year and is reviewed and approved by the Board.
An updated forecast is regularly prepared throughout the year.
The operating results are reported monthly to the Board and compared to the budget and latest forecast as appropriate.
Fidessa presents financial statements to its shareholders twice a year.
The financial risk management is more fully described in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Internal audit The Committee focuses the activity of the internal auditor on those primarily financial areas where it considers the need to review controls, test processes and monitor risk levels.
Fidessa engages an external consultant, who reports directly to the Committee, to conduct these internal audits.
During the year the Committee agreed the internal audit work plan and reviewed the reports from the internal auditor of work done, recommendations for control improvements together with corrective action planned.
It also considered the effectiveness and independence of the internal auditor and concluded that they are satisfactory.
Additionally, the Committee has reviewed the various operational audit reports prepared by independent third parties and concluded that they are satisfactory.
