Fidessa group plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report continued Nominations Committees report Membership, meetings and evaluation During the year, the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by John Hamer, comprised John Hamer, Ron Mackintosh, Elizabeth Lake and John Worby and is therefore compliant with the requirements of the Code.
As announced by the Company on 11th January 2016, Ken Archer became a member of the Committee on 8th January 2016.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and updated annually and are available at www.
The Committees main responsibilities are to advise and make recommendations to the Board on the following matters: the size, structure and composition of the Board: succession planning of Board members: the appointment of external consultants where appropriate: and the appointment of new directors and the re-appointment of existing directors.
Matters considered during the year During 2015, the Committee: considered and recommended to the Board the appointment of Andy Skelton as the new Chief Financial Officer.
Andys appointment was facilitated through the use of independent search firm, Russell Reynolds Associates.
considered and reported to the Board the recommendations following the 2015 external Board evaluation.
In relation to appointments and diversity, the Nominations Committees conclusions originally reported in 2012 continue to apply, namely that while diversity including gender diversity is important when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible new appointees, the single most important factor is to identify and recruit people based on merit.
The Nominations Committee continues to note that achieving diversity in certain sectors, including the technology sector, presents particular challenges when considering the profile of the available talent pool in those sectors.
Accordingly, the Board confirms that it is still not in favour of setting specific targets for Board diversity to be achieved by particular dates.
Currently there is one female member of the Board representing 13% of Board membership which will increase to 14%, following the retirement of Andy Malpass from the Board in February 2016.
