Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Executive Committee Executive Committee Key strengths and experiences Octavio Alvdrez Chief Executive Officer Date of appointment: Mine management within Mexico 15 August 2012 UK investor relations Mr Alvdrez has extensive experience within the mining industry, Mr Alvdrez is invited to attend having previously held the position of General Manager of the Madero Board, HSECR Committee and mine, one of Mexicos largest mines operated by Peoles.
Mr Alvdrez Remuneration Committee joined the Peoles Group in August 1988.
Since then he has held a meetings number of senior operational and financial positions across Peoles and Fresnillo, including that of Treasurer, Head of Investor Relations in London and Head of Procurement.
He was appointed Vice President of the Silver Institute in June 2015, and is the Vice President of the Board of the Mines, Metallurgy and Geology School of the University of Guanajuato: and a Director of the Lowell Institute for Mineral Resources of the University of Arizona.
Mario Arregun Chief Financial Officer Date of appointment: Accountancy and treasury 15 April 2008 Investment banking Mr Arregun was previously employed by Peoles where he held the Mr Arregun is invited to attend position of Chief Financial Officer for 11 years and Group Treasurer for Board and Audit Committee six years prior to this.
Mr Arregun has a background in investment meetings banking and project management.
David Giles Vice President, Exploration Date of appointment: Senior exploration experience within Mexico 15 April 2008 Engineering and geology background Following a 30-year career at Peoles, Mr Giles held a number of senior management positions including Vice President of Exploration: Mr Giles is invited to attend prior to this he worked for AMAX, Corona Gold and Toromex.
He is an Board meetings officer of the Society of Economic Geologists and the Mexican Association of Mining Metallurgical and Geological Engineers.
Roberto Daz Chief Operating Officer Date of appointment: Senior project and operational experience 1 November 2013 Mining and engineering Following a long career in the mining industry, Mr Daz first joined Mr Daz is invited to attend Board Peoles in 1977 and, following roles with other groups, re-joined meetings Peoles in 2007.
He has previously served as Fresnillos Vice President of Operations and Vice President of Project Development.
104 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Board Structure Board Membership Peoles has entered into a legally binding relationship agreement with As at 31 December 2015, the Board consisted of 12 Directors the the Company as required by Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2, which ensures Non-executive Chairman, Alberto Baillres, six independent Nonthat decisions in relation to transactions with Peoles must be taken executive Directors and five non-independent Non-executive by the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company.
Details about the current Directors of the Company and provisions of this Relationship Agreement are summarised on page 111. summaries of their key skills, experience and perspective that they bring to the Board are set on pages 102103.
The Relationship Agreement complies with the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the The Company has complied with the independence provisions Directors will seek re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming included in the Relationship Agreement during the financial year Annual General Meeting.
As far as the Company is aware, such provisions have been complied with during the financial year ended Board Balance 31 December 2015 by Peoles and or any of its associates.
The composition of the Board has been structured to ensure that no one individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the The non-independent Directors listed above have been appointed to Board.
The Chairman, Mr Baillres, is beneficially interested in more the Board by Peoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
than 50% of the share capital of the Company through his interest in Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. Peoles, the Companys controlling Chairmans Independence shareholder.
Mr Baillres is also the Chairman of Peoles and other Mr Baillres was appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant to the companies within the BAL Group.
Relationship Agreement, thus at the time of his appointment was not independent.
Having been responsible for overseeing the successful Board Composition and Independence development of the Group over many years, the Board considers that The Board is comprised of six Non-executive Directors who are his continued involvement as its Non-executive Chairman is very considered to be independent and six Non-executive Directors who important to the continued success of the Company.
are considered to be non-independent, as shown in the diagram below.
The Relationship Agreement continues to provide a transparent governance system, which ensures that the Company benefits from Non-independent Independent Mr Baillres leadership and experience whilst being able to demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable Alberto Baillres Guy Wilson of carrying on its business independently.
In particular, the Chairman and Chairman of Senior Independent Director and Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships Nominations Committee Chair of Audit Committee between the Fresnillo Group and its controlling shareholder are at Alejandro Baillres Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala arms length and on competitive commercial terms.
Juan Bordes Brbara Garza Lagera Arturo Fernndez Charles Jacobs Board Roles Chair of Remuneration The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer Committee are recognised and the requirements for these roles have been specified in writing and agreed by the Board in the Statement of Rafael MacGregor Fernando Ruiz Responsibilities.
Octavio Alvdrez, the Chief Executive Officer, is not Chair of HSECR Committee currently a member of the Board.
Jaime Lomeln Jaime Serra Guy Wilson, the Senior Independent Director, is available to The Board considers the Directors listed in the table above as shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved independent, to be independent in character and judgement.
For through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, each of these Directors, their circumstances are assessed by reference Chief Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations.
1.1. of the Code and the Board remains satisfied that they are each independent when the scenarios set out in Code Provision B.
Charles Jacobs is a senior corporate partner with Linklaters LLP, the Companys legal advisors, and as a Director, he has not and will not, be involved in the provision of legal or any other services to the Company by Linklaters LLP.
Fernando Ruiz has, since 2008, been a retired partner and consultant in the firm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. a firm providing professional services to the Company.
Mr Ruiz was not involved in the provision of such services prior to his retirement.
Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys auditors, in 2008.
Mr Wilson was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement.
