Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Effectiveness Board Process Papers in respect of strategic planning, policies and investment The Board is responsible for setting the Groups long-term objectives proposals for each Board meeting are prepared by members of and commercial strategy and overseeing the management of the the Executive Committee and are presented to the Board for its Groups activities.
The Board also provides leadership to the Fresnillo consideration under the Schedule of Reserved Matters, each Group in establishing the values by which it will conduct its business.
proposal having been first considered and approved by the Executive There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision Committee.
In so doing, the Executive Committee aims to ensure that which includes approvals of major expenditure and investments and any such proposals take into consideration those factors set out in key policies.
This schedule is reviewed from time to time and was section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
Significant matters that purely reviewed and revised in July 2015 to reflect regulatory developments require Executive Committee approval are reported to the Board.
Led by the Chief Executive Officer, members of the Executive A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board Committee attend all of the Board meetings and present all of the committees at meetings during the financial year ended papers on operational and financial matters.
The only discussions 31 December 2015 is set out later in this report.
All meetings of the which members of the Executive Committee are not present for are Board are held in Mexico.
discussions about management succession and the annual Board evaluation report discussion.
Board papers are usually circulated to Board members five days prior to the meeting to allow the Directors sufficient time to consider and The Directors may raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, if deliberate papers.
The agenda is prepared by the Company Secretary necessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Officer for the Chairmans approval.
Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved for the Board.
A procedure has been established to enable Directors to As discussed later in this section, a new format for Board papers was obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in adopted during the year following the 2014 Board evaluation exercise.
The purpose of the changes was to promote a greater focus on the financial and operational progress of the key strategic projects and their implementation.
Board Programme in 2015 The Board meets at least four times a year and has an established programme of meetings.
The Board seeks to focus on strategic issues as well as overseeing the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Its primary areas of focus in 2015 were: February March April May July Specific activity and approvals Directors interests Review of system of Approval by Board Review of progress Annual General Approval of interim declared internal control Committee of 2014 with 2014 Board Meeting results Review of 2014 Board Review of Going Results and Annual evaluation action Review of Going Evaluation Report Concern Report plan discussion Concern and associated Review of Annual Board lunch and Review of principal Action Plan Report strategy discussion risks and Report on Hedging Review of dividend uncertainties Programme policy Review of terms of Implementation Approval of Pyrites reference Budget update Plant Fresnillo Saucito Approval of revised Review of principal proposal Pyrites Plant Plan risks and Approval of Merrill Approval of opening uncertainties Crowe Plant at of Chile Exploration Herradura Office Strategy Presentation Sustainability strategy Regular activity considered at all meetings Directors interests Board Committee Investor Relations and Legal and Company Chief Executives Report Reports Corporate Secretarial Report Financial Report Risk and Anti-Bribery Communications including litigation and Corruption update update update 108 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations The Executive Committee Board development A number of initiatives are in place to give the Non-executive The Executive Committee consists of the most senior executives within the Fresnillo Group.
It is responsible for the management of the Directors more information about the broader context to the Companys activities.
These include strategy presentations by Companys businesses including the implementation of decisions agreed in principle by the Board and all executive management of the senior management and regular distribution of industry briefings on technical, market and sector issues.
operations of the Group within the strategy and budget approved by the Board.
It has certain powers to approve smaller transactions on Directors are encouraged to visit the Companys mines to behalf of the Board such significant transactions are reported and explained to the Board at its next scheduled meeting.
Over the past familiarise themselves with the Fresnillo Groups operations.
few years, the role of the Executive Committee has evolved in three main areas: risk, business conduct and safety performance.
All Directors have received briefings from the Companys advisers, including presentations to familiarise them with their duties Members of the Executive Committee meet with non-independent and responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company.
The Chairman regularly discusses training and development needs members of the Board prior to each Board meeting.
These discussions are minuted and copies of the minutes are circulated with the Directors, usually as part of the Board and committee evaluation exercises.
Individual performance reviews Between Board meetings Directors are provided with information on important developments and issues such as: The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors informally from time to time without the executives present.
These meetings Reports on safety and fatalities: Important developments regarding projects transactions: and provide an opportunity for the Chairman to ensure that the Non-executive Directors training and development needs are Distribution of relevant information on precious metals sector.
The independent Non-executive Directors normally meet to evaluate the performance of the Chairman each October, Board Development and Evaluation The Board recognises that sound governance has a role to play in following which the Senior Independent Director discusses the views of the independent Directors with the Chairman.
The securing strategic success and strong performance as well as in protecting the interests of its shareholders.
The Board has sought independent Directors held this meeting in 2015 after the February meeting and took the 2014 Board Evaluation review into account to use its annual Board evaluation exercise, whether internally conducted or externally facilitated, to develop and improve its in their discussions and feedback to the Chairman.
Board performance evaluation Fresnillos approach to evaluating the effectiveness of the Board and its committees operates at two levels.
Both the Board and Audit Committee undertake annual evaluations using a combination of externally facilitated and internally run evaluations July October December over a three-year cycle.
The cycle of Board and Audit Committee evaluations are summarised as follows: Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 External Board Follow-up on Focus on Review of an external Update on Amendment of evaluation action plan from outstanding and review of the Groups Organisational certain parameters of anti-bribery and Culture Programme the gold hedging approach externally emerging issues corruption framework Approval of Met Mex programme relating agreed with facilitated arising from Approach to 2015 rates for 2015 to the Penmont Chairman evaluation Action Plan board evaluation Approval of 2016 minority acquisition Approval of changes to Business plan and the Schedule of budget Board evaluation in 2015 Matters reserved to Board Evaluation In 2014, a new three-cycle commenced and the Board appointed the Board, Disclosure Review of Code of Procedures and Share Conduct and Independent Audit Limited IAL as an external evaluator to assist Dealing Code Anti-Corruption Policy with this review.
In 2015, an internally facilitated evaluation was Review of viability conducted to follow up on IALs action plan.
statement process and key assumptions Whereas in the 20112013 cycle the Boards general approach to governance was considered, in 2014 the evaluation focused on specific aspects of the effectiveness of the Board recognising the Long-term strategy evolution of best practice standards over the past few years.
2015-2030 In September 2015, the annual Board evaluation exercise used an internally facilitated questionnaire approach to focus on the recommendations made by IAL in 2014 and subsequent actions taken in response the Response Plans.
The evaluation exercise sought to obtain Directors views on the recommendations made by IAL and the adequacy of the Response Plans at the time of the evaluation survey.
109 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Effectiveness continued In 2014, IAL considered four aspects which are summarised below along with the specific actions agreed in response to the review, progress made in 2015 and any further actions required following feedback from the 2015 evaluation process.
Performance and Project governance Control and culture Operational and Key Focus information reporting organisational efficiency Could information flows How can reporting to How can the Board How can the Board as a Key Question to the Board be the Board on project engage better with whole improve the improved to aid better risks and their managements culture visibility of the way that discussion and focus on management be and values management run the the strategic context?
Key Responses 2015 Progress 2015 evaluation comments and any further action The format and information contained in New format Board papers adopted in Well received by Board members, however Board papers will be refined to help focus July 2015. continual monitoring of the suitability and discussion on key issues and risks, format of the papers is required and should particularly in relation to the performance be reviewed in 2016. and risk profile of key projects.
More time in Board meetings will be Long-term strategy was an agenda item The Board recognise the importance devoted to discussion of long-term at the July and October Board meetings.
of discussions and presentations on strategic considerations up to five years.
Sustainability Strategy was also reviewed long-term strategy.
A decision as to how at the April Board meeting.
frequently and at which of the scheduled Board meetings it is discussed is to be decided.
Enable Directors to understand the control A presentation on the organisation and Continue to review in 2016. and culture of the organisation more easily.
culture and values programme initiated in 2013 was given at the October 2015 Board meeting.
In 2015, the Audit Committee and Board have sought to take an integrated approach to their reviews of the control environment in response to the new UK Corporate Governance Code changes.
Directors are encouraged to visit mine sites.
A site visit was arranged for one Director during the year.
More information will be provided to the Minutes of pre-Board review meetings No further action required review in 2016. independent Directors about the factors are now circulated to Directors.
taken into account prior to proposals being made to the Board for approval.
Audit Committee Evaluation The Audit Committee has adopted a similar approach to the Board in engaging IAL periodically to undertake separate external evaluations of the Audit Committee.
In 2014, IAL also separately reviewed the Companys risk management framework, to assess the effectiveness of its Internal Audit function and the external audit process.
During 2015, the Audit Committee has been overseeing a series of actions taken in response to such reviews in 2014 which are explained further in the Audit Committee Report.
Other Committee Evaluations The Nominations and Remuneration Committees undertake self-evaluation on an annual basis but given the relatively straightforward nature of their work, have not considered it necessary to use external facilitation for their reviews.
Such reviews were conducted by both of these committees in 2015.
110 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Board and Committee meeting attendance Audit HSECR Nominations Remuneration Committee Board Committee Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings in year 4 5 2 2 3 Alberto Baillres 4 4 2 2 3 3 Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala 3 4 0 2 Alejandro Baillres 3 4 Juan Bordes 4 4 Arturo Fernndez 4 4 Brbara Garza Lagera 4 4 2 2 Charles Jacobs 4 4 3 3 Jaime Lomeln 4 4 2 2 Rafael MacGregor 3 4 2 2 Fernando Ruiz 4 4 4 5 2 2 3 3 Jaime Serra 3 4 5 5 Guy Wilson 4 4 5 5 1 An additional meeting was held in December 2015 to approve an amendment to the current hedging programme.
Board members were consulted about the proposal, however the final decision was made at a two-member meeting and therefore this meeting is not included in the table above.
2 All of the members of the Executive Committee attended all of the Board meetings in 2015.
Related party governance in practice The following diagram summarises the approach taken to identify There are a number of checks and balances which ensure that there is and manage related party transactions.
full transparency in the way that related party transactions are dealt with by the Board.
Identifying Directors interests Relationship Agreement Process How this is managed Responsibility The Company continues to have a Relationship Agreement in place Monitoring of If a Director is interested in a Directors between Peoles and the Company to regulate this ongoing Directors company which could potentially relationship.
The agreement was amended in November 2014 further interests enter into transactions with a Fresnillo plc Group company, the to a review in line with the new Listing Rule requirements which came Board will normally consider that into effect on 16 May 2014.
The principal purpose of the Relationship interest under its arrangements for Agreement is to ensure that the Fresnillo Group is capable of authorising conflicts of interest conducting its business independently of the Peoles Group, and that under s175 of Companies Act.
transactions and relationships with the Peoles Group are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Managing a related party transaction Peoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend Proposed Ongoing monitoring of Directors interests and related the Articles of Association in a way which would be inconsistent with transaction parties of the Company provides the information to the provisions of the agreement.
It has also agreed to abstain from determine if a related party approval is required for a voting on any resolution to approve a related party transaction as proposed transaction.
5 R of the Listing Rules involving any member of the Peoles Group.
Contract The Executive Committee will seek Fresnillo negotiation and to ensure that the best possible management Conflicts of interest verification terms are achieved for a proposed and Executive The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations transaction and that they are Committee for authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each verified by industry benchmarking reports or independent valuation Director.
Each Director ensures that he she keeps these duties under assessment.
review and informs the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any change in their respective positions, such as a new directorship Financial The Audit Committee reviews the Audit taken on.
scrutiny key terms of major transactions Committee which are verified as to price and review Each Director has completed a Directors List which sets out details of quality with external consultants or situations where the Directors interest may conflict with those of the independent benchmarking where Company situational conflicts.
The Directors Lists have been possible.
re-submitted by each Director as at 31 December 2015 and the Board has considered and authorised any new situational conflicts identified Independent Under the Relationship Agreement, Independent Director the independent Directors must Directors in these re-submitted lists.
In addition, Directors are reminded at the approval approve any transaction with the beginning of each Board meeting to notify the Board of any further Peoles Group and its associates conflicts of interest in accordance with sections 175, 177 and 182 of without the non-independent the Companies Act 2006.
