Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Relations with Shareholders The Board seeks to ensure that the interests of minority shareholders The Company also aims to meet major shareholders and analysts at in the Company are properly respected and aligned with those of least twice a year, allowing the investors and analysts to discuss the major shareholders.
As described on page 111, the Board maintains results of the Group as well as giving them an opportunity to raise any procedures for dealing with transactions with related parties as well queries or concerns they may have.
The Senior Independent Director, as Directors conflicts of interest.
Guy Wilson, has attended such meetings and it is his intention to continue to do so in order to sustain good communications between The Company has an office in London where the Head of Investor shareholders and the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Relations is based.
The Group has implemented a strong Financial Officer participate in the major roadshows after preliminary communications and investor relations programme over 2015 as and half yearly results are announced to meet with analysts and detailed in the diagram below.
They are joined by other members of the Executive Committee for some of these visits.
The table below gives some examples of the discussion points at such meetings and the response from the Company.
Fresnillo grades and development delays Detailed information about the measures being taken, clear progress updates in each production report and results announcement Processing capacity constraints at Herradura Regular updates given on the progress re.
the second Merrill Crowe plant, increasing solution processing capacity, and reaching steady state Precious metals backdrop and Fresnillos ability to respond to Clear articulation of ability to invest through the cycle, whilst retaining lower prices the flexibility to take market conditions into account Capital allocation: capex vs. dividends Reiteration of aim to balance quality growth with returns across the cycle Costs Detailed breakdown of cost metrics, including explanation of changes year-to-year and metric-to-metric: cost inflation deflation breakdown by component Increased detail on volumes processed hauled Additional disclosure re.
volumes processed hauled and clearer format for ore grade reporting provided from the first quarter production report onwards.
This has been well received Saucito II ramp-up Frequent updates of key points in the ramp-up process: eg.
testing, reaching steady state ahead of timetable San Julin Clear articulation of reasons behind the delay: context of a delay of this magnitude being typical for a project of this scale January February March April May June July August Investor relations activities Conference calls Roadshow Conference calls Conference calls Roadshow following the following the following the following the following the production preliminary production production half-yearly report results report report results announcement announcement announcement announcement announcement and and presentation: presentation: UK, US, Canada UK Nordea mining reverse roadshow Industry conferences Citi Global Bof AML Global HSBC LatAM Resources Metals and Investor Forum Conference, Mining Canaccord Conference Mining Forum 112 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations It is the role of the Head of Investor Relations in London to maintain 2015 Annual General Meeting ongoing relations with analysts and major shareholders: this is done At the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM, all resolutions put to by way of telephone calls and meetings.
The Company also uses a full shareholders were passed by a majority of 97% or above.
As such, programme of mining conferences to meet with current and the Company did not deem it necessary to specifically engage prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained with shareholders over any of the items of business of the AGM.
through the Investor Relations Office in Mexico City.
The Chief In accordance with changes to the UK Listing Rules applicable to Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer participate in the major companies with a controlling shareholder, the resolutions relating to roadshows to meet with analysts and shareholders.
They are joined the re-election of the independent Non-executive Directors required by other members of the Executive Committee for some of these approval by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as visits.
The Head of Investor Relations, supported by the Chief Executive well as all the shareholders of the Company.
The table below shows Officer and Chief Financial Officer, gives a report at each Board the results of those resolutions and again, as these were passed on meeting on communications and shareholder activity.
such a high majority by the independent shareholders as well as all shareholders, the Company is satisfied that no further engagement Geographical shareholder base with shareholders is required specifically on the re-election of the The following graph demonstrates the Companys global appeal independent Directors.
with a significant shift since IPO in 2008 from a predominantly UK Votes cast by independent shareholder base.
Resolution Votes cast by all shareholders shareholders For % Against % For % Against % Geographical split of free float shareholders since 2008 To re-elect Mr Guy Wilson 99.97 0.03 99.88 0.12 United Kingdom Europe North America Rest of the World To re-elect Mr Fernando Ruiz 99.38 0.62 97.00 3.00 To re-elect Ms Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala 99.91 0.09 99.57 0.43 To re-elect Ms Brbara Garza Lagera 99.95 0.05 99.77 0.23 To elect Mr Jaime Serra 99.44 0.56 97.31 2.69 To elect IPO 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Mr Charles Jacobs 99.96 0.04 99.80 0.20 Major interests in shares As at 29 February 2016, the Company had been advised of the Further to the Code provisions, details of proxy voting are presented at following notifiable interests whether directly or indirectly held in its the AGM and final figures are announced to the London Stock voting rights: Exchange and uploaded to the Companys website as soon practicable after the AGM.
Number of voting Notification received from: rights % 2016 Annual General Meeting Peoles 552,595,191 74.99 The Companys eighth Annual General Meeting will be held on 1 BlackRock, Inc 44,298,691 6.01 Tuesday 3 May 2016 at 12.00 noon.
The business of the Annual First Eagle Investment Management LLC 35,870,751 4.87 General Meeting will be conducted in accordance with the provisions B.
The Chairman of the Board and 1 Includes interests held by BlackRock Global Funds.
the chairmen of each of the Board committees will be available to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
In planning the September October November December business of each AGM, the Board takes account of institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share buy-backs and shareholder rights in relation to general meetings when drafting the Site visit Conference calls UBS mining usual resolutions dealing with those matters.
In each case, resolutions following the reverse are presented to the AGM to give the Board flexibility to respond to production roadshow market developments.
report announcement Authority to purchase own shares The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2015 to purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued and authorised share capital.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Denver Gold JP Morgan Best Goldman Sachs Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year Forum, Morgan of British Global Metals Stanley Conference and Mining will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the Company during Industrials and Conference the year.
Natural Resources Summit, Deutsche Bank Metals and Mining Conference 113
