Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Nominations Committee Report Dear Shareholder, Following a year of significant change in the composition of the Board in 2014, 2015 was a year for consolidation and this is reflected in the activity of the Nominations Committee during the year.
During the year, the Nominations Committee met two times and our priority for the year was to continue to focus on the long-term evolution of the membership of the Board and its committees.
This discussion seeks to build on the changes in Board membership that have already occurred during the past few years.
This is not an easy challenge because I have valued the support and wise counsel of all of the Directors who have served on the Fresnillo plc Board since the Company became a listed company in 2008.
Nevertheless, I accept that the UK Corporate Governance Code requires us to ensure that the Board is refreshed over time and we are committed to doing that.
We are mindful of the challenges in attracting women into mining-related professions in Mexico.
The Board has spent time understanding the organisational culture programme that the management team have been developing since 2013.
A key part 2015 was a year for consolidation and this is of that programme seeks to make sure that the Company provides reflected in the activity of the Nominations an environment where employees can flourish, irrespective of gender.
We therefore remain committed to the principle of diversity Committee during the year.
Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Nominations Committee Yours faithfully Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Nominations Committee Experience Members Chairman: Alberto Baillres General Mexican and 2 Members: Brbara Garza Lagera international business Independent Non-executive Director Finance and tax 1 Fernando Ruiz Independent Non-executive Director Meeting participants Company Secretary 106 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Membership Full versions of the Board Appointments Policy and Process and the The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres Board Diversity Policy can be found on the Companys website Chairman of the Committee, Brbara Garza Lagera and Fernando www.
The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee Structure Board Appointments and Diversity Policies.
are, therefore, independent Non-executive Directors.
Activity during 2015 Role The Nominations Committee met twice during the year.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and Board Appointments composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning The Nominations Committee is committed to a progressive refreshing for the Directors and other senior executives.
Before making of the Board, as recommended by Code Provision B.
2.3 of the UK appointments of new Directors, the Committee is responsible for Corporate Governance Code.
Since 2012, five new directors have been evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the appointed to the Board, including the appointment of two distinguished Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates.
Mexican businesswomen which demonstrates the Nominations Committee and the Boards commitment to gender diversity.
The Nominations Committee has approved Board Appointments and Board Diversity Policies which provide the framework for the Whilst there have not been any changes to the Board during 2015, Nominations Committee and the Boards approach to Board the Nominations Committee has continued to discuss this appointments.
requirement to ensure that a steady momentum is maintained.
Board Appointments Policy and Process in Summary Committee Membership The Nominations Committee and the Board are committed to the Having made some changes to the membership of the Board principle of appointments to the Board being made on the basis of committees in 2014, as a result of changes to the membership of the merit.
The criteria for determining the composition of the Board and Board itself in that year, the Nominations Committee reviewed the future Board appointments continues to be based on: composition and effectiveness of the Board committees in 2015 Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments to the and was satisfied that the committees are working well.
Board by Peoles: The Companys leading position as a precious metals miner in Executive Succession Planning Mexico: Each year, the Nominations Committee reviews a schedule of possible The Companys inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index: successors for all the positions on the Executive Committee Chief The specific functions on Board committees which independent Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Exploration Directors will be required to fulfil: and and Chief Operating Officer.
This review considers both short-term The criteria set out in the current terms of reference of the emergency and long-term planning scenarios.
Any actions needed to Nominations Committee.
support the development of potential long-term successors are discussed.
The Nominations Committee also monitors the long-term The Nominations Committee does not use open advertising or retain evolution of the membership of the Board as a whole.
These matters any external consultants when making new appointments to the were all discussed by the Nominations Committee in 2015 and it is Board as it is considered unnecessary considering the Companys satisfied with the actions that are being taken to support this.
Other Nominations Committee Activity Board Diversity Policy in Summary and Progress The Nominations Committee also considered the following matters: All Board appointments are made on merit.
The Board recognises and Approval of the 2014 Nominations Committee Report prior to embraces the benefits of having a diverse Board: particularly the publication: value that different perspectives and experience bring to the quality of The time commitment required from each Director: Board debate and decision-making.
There are certain considerations The proposed re-election of each of the continuing Directors at the which are taken into account in considering the composition of the Annual General Meeting: and Board such as background and experience, age, gender, and A self-evaluation exercise.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are available The Board believes that setting targets for the number of people from on the Companys website at www.
a particular background or gender is not the most effective approach to take.
The Board will therefore look to follow the principles of this The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are made policy rather than specified quotas or targets.
available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours.
The Board recognises that very few women are attracted to mining engineering and geology academic programmes in Mexico and, in view of the stage of development of Mexico, the participation of women in the labour force as a whole is still relatively low.
This will take time to rectify but has been changing, particularly in relation to unionised workers, and the Company in committed to hiring and developing women with educational training in mining engineering, geology, finance and accounting.
In the meantime, the Board has reviewed the organisational culture programme that has been developed since 2013 which, among other things, seeks to build a cultural environment where employees can flourish, irrespective of gender.
