Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations The Board of Directors Chairman of the Board Key strengths and experiences Alberto Baillres Chairman Date of appointment: Long-term knowledge and understanding of the Mexican 15 April 2008 commercial environment Relationships within the Mexican and international businesses communities Committee membership: Nominations Committee Over a period of 50 years, Mr Baillres has built up unprecedented Chairman experience and knowledge of both the Group and the Mexican Remuneration Committee markets in which it operates from both investor and the supervisory perspectives.
Non-independent Directors Key strengths and experiences Alejandro Baillres Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Insurance and related financial services in Mexico 16 April 2012 Broad board-level commercial experience in Mexico As a director of several Grupo BAL companies such as Grupo Nacional Provincial a leading insurance company in Mexico, Mr Baillres brings knowledge and experience of Mexican and international business to his role.
Juan Bordes Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Senior executive CEO-level responsibilities over several years 10 January 2008 Board membership of companies spanning a broad range of sectors and industries During his career, Mr Bordes has held both senior executive management roles and board responsibilities with companies spanning a number of different sectors, particularly within Mexico.
Arturo Fernndez Non-executive Director Date of appointment: International economics and public policy 15 April 2008 Directorships of several Mexican companies Mr Fernndez career brings together a solid academic economics background, many years experience within the Mexican public policy arena and broad commercial experience through board directorships of leading businesses in a number of sectors in Mexico.
Rafael MacGregor Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Capital markets 10 January 2008 Financial services and commercial sectors Mr MacGregor has wide-ranging commercial experience in Mexico Committee membership: serving on the boards of a number of major companies across a HSECR Committee number of sectors, including the Mexican Stock Exchange.
Chairman Jaime Lomeln Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Mining and engineering 15 April 2008 Senior operational experience within Mexico Following a career in metals and mining, Mr Lomeln was Chief Executive Officer of Fresnillo plc from April 2008 to 15 August 2012 when he became a Non-executive Director, thus he brings senior management, mining and engineering experience to Board discussions.
102 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Independent Directors Key strengths and experiences Guy Wilson Senior Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: International audit and accountancy 1 July 2008 UK Government and Capital Markets Following a career within Ernst & Young, which included 29 years as a Committee membership: Partner, Mr Wilson brings extensive experience of international audit Audit Committee Chairman and accounting practice, capital markets and transactions.
Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Executive experience within industrial and financial sectors 16 April 2012 Mexican and international M&A and capital transactions experience Committee membership: Having been Vice Chairman of Grupo Modelo, one of Mexicos largest HSECR Committee breweries, until it was sold to Anheuser-Busch InBev in 2012-13, and now also Chief Executive Officer of Tresalia Capital S. A. fide C. V. Ms Aramburuzabala brings a broad range of commercial experience to the Board.
Brbara Garza Lagera Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Mexican commercial and industrial 16 May 2014 International Board experience As an experienced director, particularly through her career at Committee membership: Coca-Cola FEMSA KOF and Fomento Econmico Mexicano FEMSA, Nominations Committee the largest franchise bottler of Coca-Cola products in the world, Ms Garza Lagera brings a broad experience of Mexican commercial and international business.
Charles Jacobs Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Legal professional with a focus on capital markets, mining and 16 May 2014 metals International M&A experience Committee membership: Through his experience as a senior partner of global law firm Linklaters Remuneration Committee LLP, Mr Jacobs brings a legal and regulatory perspective to the Chairman boardroom.
Fernando Ruiz Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Mexican tax and accounting 15 April 2008 International board and audit committee Mr Ruiz was managing partner of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. Committee membership: tax advisers and consultants in Mexico, and now serves on the board Audit Committee and audit committees of several Mexican and international Remuneration Committee companies.
He has extensive knowledge of Mexican tax and Nominations Committee accounting issues.
Jaime Serra Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Mexican government 16 May 2014 International trade and commerce Following a distinguished career in Government in Mexico, with Committee membership: particular focus on international trade and industry, Mr Serra brings a Audit Committee broad range of experience of Mexican politics and international trade to the Board.
