Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, The continued decline of precious metals prices and the deterioration of the Mexican peso against the strength of the US dollar have required a change in the Audit Committees priorities in 2015.
The consequence of precious metal price decline has sharpened our focus on going concern and the new viability statement to ensure that we have sufficient resources in the years ahead.
It has also prompted greater scrutiny of the assumptions underlying the methodology used to measure whether there has been any impairment in our mining assets.
Exchange rate movements in the ratio between the Mexican peso and the US dollar require us to review closely the impact on our hedging arrangements and the effect on deferred tax movements due to the Groups substantial assets in Mexican pesos for Mexican tax purposes and that effect translated into US dollars.
This year, we have also substantially addressed the issues arising from the independent evaluation of the Audit Committee in 2014, the details of which are set out in the accompanying report.
I would particularly like to highlight two pleasing aspects of our work... two pleasing aspects of our work this year.
Firstly, the work that management has done to create a Firstly, the work that management has done to transparent understanding of our internal control environment has been exemplary because it enables the system to be demonstrated create a transparent understanding of our with clarity throughout the Group.
Secondly, the extensive work internal control environment.
Secondly, the across the Group to prepare the necessary documentation to support extensive work across the Group to prepare the our viability statement.
This work has enabled us to have great confidence in the potential effects of some adverse scenarios and necessary documentation to support our thus be able to estimate the appropriate financial implications and viability statement plan our remediation efforts.
This enabled us to recommend that the Guy Wilson viability statement be approved by the Board.
Both of these large Chairman of the Audit Committee pieces of work demonstrate the ability of our people to work effectively together across disciplines.
Experience Members Chairman: Guy Wilson Finance and tax 2 Members: Fernando Ruiz Political and public policy 1 Independent Non-executive Director Jaime Serra Independent Non-executive Director Meeting participants Chief Financial officer Internal Audit Company Secretary Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Vice President, Exploration Head of Risk Head of Legal Head of IT External Auditor 114 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Last year, in addition to our primary task of the oversight of financial accounting and reporting together with internal controls, concentrating on the financial judgements in the Financial Statements, I outlined five priorities for your Audit Committee in 2015.
I now comment on progress so far: 2015 Priorities Progress Monitoring management, risk and Internal Audit to improve the quality of Significant progress has been made in implementing movements in the risk the bi-annual reports to the Board on the effectiveness of the controls over profiles at operating and development projects but more work needs to be risks at each of the operational mines, development projects and done in exploration areas exploration areas effectively highlighting changes in the risk profile, if any Following the recent pronouncement from the FRC concerning the Management have done considerable work to clearly define the three levels enhanced statement from the Board in the 2015 Annual Report about the of control over the identified risks in our operations, as set out in greater Companys internal controls, we need to monitor the efforts of detail in the accompanying report management and Internal Audit to examine all our internal controls to identify if any additional procedures are required before the Board can have the confidence in the data provided so that they can make the enhanced statement The Company prepares a considerable amount of data on each project Project data has been reformatted into a transparent presentation to the which is regularly reviewed by management.
To date, this data is not Audit Committee and the Board summarised in a way to enable informed discussion at the Board.
We will monitor managements development of a new summary presentation to ensure that it is concise and transparent for all parties We will monitor managements development of a robust process to Significant work has been done by management to provide robust evidence underpin the requirement for a statement by the Board regarding the to support the Boards statement of long-term viability, which can be seen in Companys longer-term viability being for a period longer than that the Strategic Report on page 48 envisaged under the current going concern concept.
We will therefore challenge managements assessment of the relevant evidence and assumptions underlying future years projections in order to ensure that the Boards statement is appropriately worded We will continue to review managements progress in developing the The configuration of the IT strategy is a long-term process.
We are satisfied requirements to fulfil the IT strategy to ensure that these are consistent with that management and IT are collaborating well and that the development corporate strategy and that any enhancements are cost effective of new IT applications are progressing and are in line with the Groups strategy For 2016, we assess our priorities in addition to our primary tasks as Despite this pressure, I managed to arrange to visit our operations in follows: Cinega, which has a different geographical configuration to our other Continuing to encourage management to enhance the mines that I have visited.
I found the visit extremely helpful to transparency of the effectiveness of the internal controls over the understand the risks management need to address and the controls identified risks to enable the Board to have continued confidence they utilise on a daily basis to mitigate those risks.
Continuing to encourage management to challenge the In closing, I would like to acknowledge, with gratitude, the assumptions underpinning the long-term strategy of the Group to contributions of my colleagues Fernando Ruiz and Jaime Serra which ensure that the Board can remain confident about the Groups are always insightful and as a result, collectively, we can be an long-term viability.
Continuing to challenge managements progress to implement IT improvements to underpin the corporate strategy and ensure that Yours faithfully such enhancements are cost effective.
Conduct an effective and efficient audit tender process.
Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee 115 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report continued Membership Role The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2015 were The role of the Audit Committee is set out in its terms of reference, a Guy Wilson Chairman of the Committee, Fernando Ruiz and Jaime copy of which can be found on the Companys website.
Guy Wilson was previously a partner at EY, bringing an reference set out the duties of the Audit Committee under the international audit and accountancy perspective as well as extensive following headings: experience of capital transactions and corporate activity and is Financial Reporting therefore considered to have recent and relevant financial, auditing External Audit and accounting experience.
Further to the individual biographies on Risk Management and Internal Controls page 103, Fernando Ruiz and Jaime Serra have extensive experience Internal Audit of the economy and the business environment both in Mexico and Whistleblowing Procedures internationally.
In addition, Fernando Ruiz brings many years Related Party Matters knowledge of the legal and tax environment and Jaime Serra, political insight through the various roles he has held within the Mexican In order to assist the Committee in fulfilling its duties whilst government with particular focus on international trade and implementing good corporate governance, the Audit Committee commerce.
Consequently, together the Committee members bring developed a Committee Policy Manual which codifies the policies broad and relevant perspectives to the issues they need to address.
within the scope of the Audit Committees responsibilities.
This document is reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The Chief Financial Officer and representatives from external and Internal Audit attend all meetings, with the Chief Executive Officer, Committee Evaluation other members of the Executive Committee and management The Audit Committee uses regular evaluation processes as a means attending where appropriate and also external advisers if relevant of ensuring that the governance over the controls environment is for specific matters.
In 2014 an independent evaluation of the Committee was carried out by Independent Audit Limited in parallel with the evaluation of the full Board.
A number of workstreams have been established in response to the recommendations arising which have been largely the responsibility of management to implement.
Progress has been monitored by the Audit Committee during the year.
The following table summarises this activity and progress during the year.
Workstream Progress during the year Improve the quality of dynamic reporting on the evolving risk profiles of This work was completed and incorporated into the Board and Committee operational mines, development projects and exploration areas.
The enhanced reporting was well received by Board members.
Improve the understanding of how various sources of assurance such as Significant progress has been made between the different participants in operational management, financial management, executive management, this process, with a report summarising the status and findings presented at and Internal Audit interact in the execution and monitoring of material the December 2015 meeting of the Audit Committee.
This report served to controls as well as identify and address any gaps in the control framework.
inform the Board in its review of the system of internal controls and will enhance the framework within which internal controls are monitored on an ongoing basis in future.
Re-design agenda papers for the Audit Committee and the Board to A working party of executives and Non-executive Directors have re-designed provide increased visibility and transparency on projects, with an aim to the Board papers and these new formats have been adopted.
facilitate more informed discussion at Board level.
Develop a robust process underpinning the new requirement to produce a A comprehensive assessment of the time period for the viability review, the viability statement, leading to a better understanding of the risks to the scenarios used to test the statement assumptions and financial model was Companys strategy, monitoring of material controls over those risks and developed and a full assessment of the impact of severe but plausible related potential mitigations.
Embedding IT strategy into the broader strategy, with all relevant The IT function and management have collaborated on this and have programmes subject to full risk review and monitoring.
prepared progress reports to the Audit Committee for each meeting.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with progress to date.
The Company Secretary also facilitated a review of the Committees terms of reference during the year.
The Committee concluded that, following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the terms of reference required amendments to reflect changes in the Audit Committees role in monitoring risk, internal control, going concern, and assessing viability.
These revisions were recommended to and subsequently approved by the Board in February 2016.
116 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Activity during 2015 The Audit Committee met five times in 2015, following its usual pattern of meetings.
Timing of meeting Main purpose of meeting New UK Corporate Governance Code activity February Review Annual Report and Financial Statements and EY report Briefing on new Code requirements thereon April Post-year-end process review Review of paper on revised approach to the review of risk and the system of internal controls July Review Interim Report and Financial Statements and EY report Progress updates on risk, new approach to internal control and the thereon process for preparing the viability statement October Review Year-end Planning Discussion of viability statement period and approach to sensitivity analysis Review Internal Audit Plan December Review of hard-close audit report from EY and review year-end Progress updates progress The following sections summarise how the Audit Committee has The Audit Committee continually seeks to refine its processes for fulfilled its duties during 2015. ensuring that it is satisfied with the appropriateness of financial reporting.
Ahead of each annual audit and half-yearly review, the 1.
Financial reporting appropriateness of the areas of focus from prior year audits or reviews The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is are re-assessed with management and EY to ensure that they remain to review with both management and the external auditor the valid and that there are no other financial risk areas that should be appropriateness of financial reporting concentrating on, amongst brought into the ambit of the audit or review.
In undertaking their other matters: review of the 2015 half-yearly report, the Audit Committee sought to Monitoring the risks and associated controls over financial ensure that issues discussed during the audit of the 2014 full-year reporting processes, including the process by which the Groups financial statements had been progressed and that there was Financial Statements are prepared for publication.
consistency between the policies and judgements used in preparing The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices.
the full-year and half-year financial statements.
The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance In reviewing the 2015 half-yearly report and the 2015 Annual Report reporting requirements.
prior to recommending them to the Board for approval, the Committee, Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied with the assistance of management and EY, identified a number of or there has been discussion with the external auditor.
The key issues in the reporting context during Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, the year were the process and analysis which were undertaken balanced and understandable and provides the information respectively ahead of the preparation of the statements on viability and necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, going concern, impairment and hedging.
These are outlined in the business model and strategy.
following table along with how we have addressed them: Any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial reporting.
Priority Areas of Focus in 2015 Description Audit Committee action Going concern The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups ability to continue as The Committee read managements schedules supporting and explaining the a going concern for a minimum of 12 months from the approval of the inputs and process underpinning the going concern assessment.
These included Financial Statements, which involves assessing whether, in adverse Group budgets and cash flow forecasts for the period to December 2017, as circumstances, the Group has adequate liquid resources to meet its revised in February 2016, including exploration and capital expenditure plans and obligations as they fall due.
sensitivities around those plans and the assumptions underlying the future trend of operating costs.
Management have also considered scenarios to illustrate the A misstatement in going concern arises either i when the conclusion on sensitivities of cash flow forecasts to movements in metal prices.
whether going concern is appropriate is incorrect or ii when the Financial Statements do not appropriately represent the conclusion.
If the Financial The Committee considered EYs report on this assessment and on the Statements do not appropriately reflect the conclusions on going concern, reasonableness of assumptions therein, including their consistency with the effect is pervasive as it affects a significant number of accounts.
assumptions and estimates used elsewhere in the preparation of the Financial Statements.
With the Companys production profiles at each mine being relatively predictable and with budgeted expenditure for capital investment and In particular, the Committee challenged management on the feasibility of exploration being necessary to achieve our strategy, our fundamental risk lies mitigating actions and the potential speed of their implementation to achieve in metal prices as PTU, tax and dividend policies are a mathematical any flexibility required.
calculation from reported operating results.
The Committee reviewed and evaluated the conclusions of the Boards The continued uncertainty caused by falling metal prices and the assessment of going concern and the proposed disclosures in the Financial management of capital and other expenditure to conserve cash are a critical Statements.
As a result of the procedures performed, the Committee satisfied itself that See pages 4849 the going concern basis of preparation is appropriate and the Financial Statements appropriately reflect the conclusions on going concern.
117 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report continued Description Audit Committee action Impairment Adverse metals price volatility, reductions in reserves and resources, or The Committee challenged managements consistent application of operational issues potentially impact the recoverable value of mining assets assumptions used within the impairment review.
in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group and investments in This is a key area of focus for EY and the Committee has discussed with them the subsidiaries in the standalone Parent Company Financial Statements.
results of their procedures on the adequacy of the impairment models used by With the current level of precious metal prices and their future progression management and on the assumptions therein.
The Committee then discussed uncertain, the risk of the book value of mining assets and investment in with management and EY the headroom for each of the mining assets and subsidiaries becoming impaired has increased.
The judgements in relation to impairment testing relate to the assumptions As for the El Bajo situation at Soledad-Dipolos, the Committee has challenged underlying the calculation of the recoverable amount of the assets being managements current assessment of the recoverable value of our mining tested.
assets, and discussed with EY their view of the accounting judgements applicable and the appropriateness of disclosures.
See note 13 to the Financial Statements and note 6 to the Parent Company Financial Statements The Audit Committee supported managements judgement not to record any impairment in mining assets but to record in the standalone Parent Company financial statements the impairment of certain investments in subsidiaries.
The Audit Committee recognised that the reason for the impairment in those investments was principally that these were recorded at fair value in the Parent Company when the Fresnillo Group was created ahead of the IPO in 2008, whereas the underlying mining assets within the subsidiaries are carried at historic cost.
Hedging The Company operates two hedging programmes: one in respect of currency The Committee has been mindful of the potential impact of movements in both Mexican peso:US dollar and the other the hedging programme set up in currency and commodity price movements on the hedging programmes.
It has 2014 to mitigate the risk of future adverse movements in gold prices affecting therefore continued to monitor managements assumptions and the data which the acquisition cost of the minority shareholding in Penmont.
It also discussed with EY their evaluation of the financial reporting model to ensure that it was appropriate for the hedging During the year, the Committee has considered the effect of the depreciation programmes.
of the Mexican peso versus the US dollar, which attempts to protect the operating cost.
It also separately considered the elasticity of the Penmont The Committee discussed with management the anticipated utilisation of the hedge.
hedges over time to achieve managements objective.
See note 31 to the Financial Statements The Audit Committee was satisfied that the accounting for hedging in the Financial Statements was appropriate and compliant with Accounting Standards.
Continuing Areas of Focus in 2015: Description Audit Committee action Mineral reserves and resources The estimation of mineral reserves and resources requires significant The Committee discussed with the Head of Exploration the composition of judgement with regard to future characteristics of mineral ore. Changes in reserves and resources and considered carefully the report thereon by SRK who the economic environment and future outlook may change the economic independently audit the reserves and resources of the Group.
Metal price assumptions determine the cut-off grade The Committee also reviewed the reporting of reserves and resources within the for identifying economically viable ore bodies.
Reserves and resources, although not valued directly in our Financial This is an area of key audit focus for EY and the Committee discussed with them Statements, are a primary driver of Fresnillos market valuation, impact the results of their procedures: investors decisions and play a significant part in the calculations of the On the expertise and objectivity of SRK: and depreciation of mining assets, the mine restoration model and related On the comparison of metal price assumptions used by management in the provisions and underpins the calculations used to assess whether there is any determination of reserves and resources compared with price assumptions in impairment of mining assets.
As a result, inaccuracies in the estimation of various accounting models used in preparing numbers in the Financial reserves and resources would lead to broad implications across the Annual Statements.
The Audit Committee challenged the determination of mineral reserves and See pages 225 to 229 of the Annual Report resources performed by management, which has been independently reviewed by SRK, and was satisfied with the appropriateness of the review process and related disclosures.
118 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Description Audit Committee action Silverstream The Silverstream contract is a derivative financial instrument and is required The Committee challenged managements judgement that the valuation at the to be reflected at fair value at each balance sheet date.
balance sheet date and the related gain of US$27.7 million was within the range of acceptable valuation outcomes.
The fair value can be impacted by any of the valuation inputs, but is most sensitive to the timing and volume of forecast production derived from the The Committee, as part of its review of the Annual Report and Accounts, reserves and resources and production profile of the Sabinas mine, the reviewed the disclosures relating to the Silverstream contract including the estimated future silver price and the discount rate.
The Silverstream contract represents not only a large asset on our balance This is another key area of audit focus for EY and the Committee discussed with sheet but, with such recently volatile precious metal prices, also the potential them their procedures in auditing the accuracy of the model used in the for change in its valuation can result in large, albeit non-cash, amounts in the valuation and the key assumptions therein.
The Committee was satisfied with income statement.
the conclusions from the procedures performed.
See note 15 to the Financial Statements The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of the Silverstream contract in the Financial Statements.
Related party transactions including revenue recognition Transactions with related parties in the normal course of business may carry The Committee always scrutinises all major related party transactions that no higher risk than transactions with unrelated parties: however, Fresnillo has require independent Director approval to ensure that they are entered into a controlling shareholder and as a result has very strong ties both to Peoles transparently and conducted at arms length and thus treat all shareholders and the broader BAL group.
This year the Committee again reviewed related party transactions which individually or in aggregate amounted to a significant size see the section of this There is a risk that related party relationships could be taken advantage of to report headed Transactions with Related Parties.
manipulate earnings or otherwise distort the financial position.
The Committee also discusses EYs procedures to ensure revenue is recognised Furthermore, related party transaction disclosure requirements are onerous accurately and reviews the relevant disclosures in the Annual Report, comparing and there is a risk that disclosures in the Financial Statements could be them with the related party transaction analysis requested from management inaccurate or incomplete.
See note 28 to the Financial Statements The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of Related Party Transactions in the Financial Statements.
PTU and taxation The taxation of mining companies in Mexico has been the subject of much The reviews of PTU and taxation by the Audit Committee have similar attention and government action in Mexico in the past few years.
been compounded by the impact of commodity and currency price The Committee reviews all the significant accounting adjustments applied in movements on financial reporting of tax matters for the Company and its determining profit subject to PTU or taxation for each subsidiary which are clearly peers.
set out in papers prepared by management.
This is also an area of focus for EY, There is a risk that deductions taken when calculating tax and PTU charges who report to the Committee on their work in these areas.
may be challenged, and that any resulting exposures to payable taxation and The Committee challenges managements and EYs views and ascertains the PTU may not have been provided for appropriately.
degree to which such adjustments are supported by internal and or external Whereas the Committee does not consider that there is a risk of material subject matter experts to ensure that they are appropriate and properly misstatement of these numbers in the Financial Statements, in the current evidenced.
climate it is important for us to ensure that our shareholders have adequate During the year, the Audit Committee has, in particular, challenged managements information to conclude that the stated charges for PTU and taxation are fair treatment of certain expenses in the light of developing tax legislation in Mexico, and reasonable.
the steps taken to ensure that deferred tax and VAT credits are recoverable and See notes 8 and 11 to the Financial Statements steps taken to mitigate the effects of currency movements on tax liabilities as shown in the Financial Statements which are stated in US dollars.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the stated charges for PTU and taxation are fair and reasonable under current Mexican tax law and financial reporting standards.
Licences and land title Land titles underpin all our mining activities as, without good title, the Group The Committee has oversight over the progress of the review and throughout the would not be able to conduct its operations.
The Committee considers that year has received verbal and written reports from the Companys Head of Legal the Company has a robust process to ensure that all required legal on the process.
documentation is completed correctly on acquisition of land titles and this The review, which had been completed on the major operating mines in prior methodology has been in place for many years.
years, continued this year focusing on less significant interests and is now largely As a result of recent litigation and ejido activity, management continue to complete.
To date, apart from the issues arising from ongoing ejido litigation, undertake a review of all title documentation and associated agreements.
which are being addressed, nothing significant has emerged.
The specific risks are: The Committee also reviewed reports from advisers on the status of existing litigation.
Litigation and claims can give rise to uncertainty around the Groups ability to freely realise the benefits of its assets and may give rise to asset The Committee is satisfied that it is not necessary to derecognise the Soledad impairment: & Dipolos assets and that the amount of the mining assets at 31 December The assessment of the appropriate level of legal provisions and narrative 2015 is adequate when taking into consideration the currently available disclosures in the accounts requires assumptions on the legal outcome of information and that relevant disclosures throughout the Annual Report are claims and estimates of costs: and appropriate.
The possibility that the Group would not be able to resume operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The review is a substantial task as there is a large volume of titles and potential complexities surrounding land ownership in Mexico arising from the various layers of legislation from the State, agrarian and local government.
See note 27 to the Financial Statements 119 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report continued Ensuring that the Annual Report is Fair, Balanced and In line with the standard partner rotation policy the lead partner for Understandable EY in the UK was replaced during the year, having been the audit In February 2016, the Audit Committee reviewed the Annual Report partner for five years and the Audit Committee oversaw the process and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 for ensuring that the new audit partner was suitable for the role.
prior to recommending them to the Board for approval.
As part of that review process, the members of the Committee were provided with a The Audit Committee has begun planning an external audit tender draft of the full Annual Report prior to a formal review by the Audit exercise which will commence in the first half of 2016 around the time Committee at the February meeting, enabling them to ensure that the of the Companys AGM.
The process will involve initial invitations to numbers therein were consistent with those in the Financial Statements tender: the provision of information through a data room and or were sourced from appropriate data.
More importantly, members of meetings with management: written submissions from which a the Committee also assess whether the words used are consistent with shortlist of tenderers is expected to be compiled: and final oral their understanding of the Companys business obtained through Board presentations in September 2016 to enable an appointment to be and Audit Committee meetings, and other interaction that they have approved by the Board in October 2016 to take effect for the year with management, and use their experience to assess whether the commencing 1 January 2017.
The appointment would not be Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
formally confirmed until the 2017 AGM so that the chosen firm would This additional review by Audit Committee members, supplemented by then be in place for the interim review in 2017 as their first audit observations provided by external advisers during the drafting process, review activity.
assists the Board in determining that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable at the time that it is approved.
Independence and Objectivity of the External Auditor The Audit Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure that the 2.
External auditor external auditor maintains its independence and objectivity.
It has The Audit Committee is required to oversee the relationship with the therefore reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of EY as external auditor and assess the effectiveness of the external audit the external auditor based on disclosures provided by EY in process.
This is achieved through a combination of the following accordance with UK Ethical Standards for the audit profession.
actions: Reviewing the terms of engagement of the external auditor: The Audit Committee has a policy in place in respect of the provision Approving audit plans and timescales prior to the year-end audit: of non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor.
Understanding the allocation of audit resources and the level of The engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit, involvement of technical experts: assurance, taxation and certain advisory services is pre-approved.
Any Discussing the external auditors materiality assessments in engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted services relation to our financial statements: above US$150,000 is subject to the specific approval of the Audit Challenging the external auditors risk and judgement area Committee.
This policy was confirmed at the December 2015 meeting identification: of the Committee.
Reviewing the reports received from the external auditor and challenging the work done to test managements assumptions in In October 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed the non-audit work key areas of risk and judgement: undertaken by EY during the year.
The Committee was satisfied that Approving representation letters given to the external auditor by the level of work was appropriate and that the nature of the work management: would not compromise EYs objectivity in respect of future audit work.
Seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process: The Committee also reviewed the levels of engagement of other audit Periodically commissioning an external review of the external firms and advisers at its October and December meetings.
auditor: Considering the reappointment of the external auditors and their Details of the fees paid to EY during the year as shown in note 29 to independence, including the rotation of the audit partner: and the Financial Statements were US$1.98 million of which US$0.04 Conducting periodic audit tender processes.
million were non-audit related fees, and the fees paid to other accountants and advisory firms were US$0.18 million.
During 2015, the members of the Audit Committee met twice with representatives from EY without management present and once with The Financial Reporting Council FRC did not provide any comments management without representatives of EY present, to ensure that on the Companys 2014 Annual Report.
The Audit Committee did, there are no issues in the relationship between management and the however, review their report on EY, as a firm, and considered carefully external auditor which it should address.
those matters raised which were of relevance for Fresnillo plc.
Together with management and EY, the Committee satisfied itself During the year, the Audit Committee continued to monitor the liaison that any relevant audit matter raised by the FRC in respect of EY had between EY and the Companys Internal Audit department, which it been correctly performed in the course of the audits of Fresnillo.
believes is improving the efficiency of both the external and internal audit processes.
This will continue to develop during 2016.
Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee has devoted a significant amount of time and Appointment of the External Auditor attention to the Companys approach to risk management and In February 2016, the Audit Committee considered and internal control in 2015.
This has been in response to two factors: first, recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor, Ernst & the output from the 2014 Committee Evaluation process and Young LLP, to the Board prior to the Companys Annual General subsequent workstreams described above: and second, the Meeting.
This review took into account the results of the auditor preparatory work undertaken by the Audit Committee, on behalf of assessment process, the quality of the work and communication by the Board as a whole, in adopting the 2014 UK Corporate Governance the external auditor and the level of audit fees.
Code requirements on risk, internal control, going concern and longer-term viability statements.
120 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Risk Management These efforts have resulted in a transparent analysis of the The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board, not to replace it, operational, financial and executive management controls for each of in matters of risk and risk management.
the risks that have been identified by management in its risk universe.
This represents a significant improvement in the visibility of the The Boards role is primarily to consider whether a level of risk or a effectiveness of Fresnillos risk control environment.
specific risk is acceptable within the Companys strategy and risk appetite.
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for making sure The Audit Committee and Board formally reviewed the Principal Risks that internal control and risk management are effective, the detailed and Uncertainties of the Group prior to the publication of both the work is delegated to the Executive Committee.
Therefore, the primary interim and full-year reports.
In 2015, this process resulted in the role of the Audit Committee in relation to risk management and Board adding a new risk and re-ordering the enlarged list of risks to internal controls is to monitor the effectiveness of risk management reflect their view of the relative significance of each risk in the current systems and related internal controls to ensure that issues that have environment in which the Fresnillo Group operates.
Further details of arisen are properly dealt with, and that going forward the systems are the Risk Management System are set out on pages 3637. fit for purpose.
The UK Corporate Governance Code now requires a robust assessment of the principal risks and the Board and the Audit Financial risk management Committees approach to monitoring risk has for some time been The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk management focused on doing this, primarily through: including information on the Companys exposures to Market risk, such as foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate Regular reassessment of the top risks identified by management, and equity price risks: credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in note the procedures put in place to assess, quantify and mitigate these 32 to the Financial Statements.
risks and management judgements as to movements in those risks over the course of the year: Internal controls Regular reviews of the Key Risk Indicator reports prepared by The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal management: control, which includes all material controls, including financial, Reviewing the reports from the Internal Audit department on any operational and compliance controls and related risk management, issues identified in the course of their work, ensuring that there is and reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is an appropriate response from management and assessing the designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated conclusions that can be drawn from such reporting as part of the with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the Audit Committees monitoring of the Companys system of internal limitations inherent in any system of internal control, the Groups control: system is designed to meet its particular needs and the risks to which Reviewing annually the effectiveness of the Groups system of it is exposed.
It is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate risk internal control, including the development of the Groups IT altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not strategy and governance thereof: absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: and Reviewing reports from the external auditors on any issues The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee its responsibility for identified in the course of their work, including an internal control reviewing the effectiveness of Fresnillos internal controls.
The Audit report including observations on the Groups control environment Committee reviews the system of internal control on an annual basis.
on control weaknesses, and ensuring that there is an appropriate The day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance response from management.
of the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee is supported in this The analysis undertaken in relation to the preparation of the viability task by the Internal Audit department.
The annual Internal Audit statement has augmented these procedures with an assessment of programme, approved by the Audit Committee, ensures that internal those scenarios which, whilst not particularly likely, could severely controls over all of the operations are all reviewed at least once over a impact the financial viability of the Group severe but plausible three-year timeframe.
The risk categories set out in the risk matrix scenarios.
Thus the traditional aspects of likelihood and probability were used as the basis for the process of reviewing the effectiveness in risk assessment have now been supplemented by analysis of risk of the system of internal controls.
The Internal Audit department proximity and velocity.
obtained letters of representation from the Executive Committee and the executive management on the Groups system of internal control.
Management will continue to build the existing risk management framework, seeking to enhance risk governance and management The Group has in place internal controls and risk management across the business in line with the changes to the UK Corporate systems in relation to the Groups financial reporting process and the Governance Code.
In order to support the Board responsibilities of i Groups process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These systems monitoring and reviewing the risk management and internal control include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting systems: ii satisfying itself that they are functioning effectively: and records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and iii that corrective action is being taken where necessary, in 2015, in fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance addition to monitoring the normal risk management activities, the with IFRS.
Audit Committee reviewed managements activities to: develop an ongoing continuous monitoring process consisting of validating the effectiveness of current controls: continue promoting ownership of risk mitigation and associated controls among the process owners at the business unit level being the first line of defence and through their periodic reporting on the effectiveness of controls: and consider how our risk management environment is strengthened through working to ensure that the Groups corporate values and control culture are embedded throughout the organisation.
121 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report continued The process agreed by the Audit Committee to monitor the Groups Going Concern and Longer-term viability statement system of internal controls focused on improving the understanding The Boards Going Concern Statement and longer-term Viability of how the various sources of assurance such as operational Statement are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 48 and management, financial management, executive management and 49 respectively.
internal audit interact in the review and execution of material controls and identify and address any gaps in the control framework.
During the year, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has To this end, the Audit Committee, with the assistance of the Risk overseen the methodology by which the management team, led by function and management, has assessed its approach to monitoring the Chief Financial Officer, with input from the Companys advisers, the ongoing effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
has assessed the amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code The components of these activities have been identified and assessed in relation to going concern and viability.
The key stages and timing for for their adequacy in the monitoring of material controls.
These this work are set out in the following table.
activities included oversight of controls by corporate level functions, Timing Activity executive management supervision, Internal Audit reviews and related reporting activities to the Audit Committee and Board.
The January to July 2015 Briefing of the Board.
Process planning and outcome of that review, which was developed during the year, was creation of inter-departmental working party discussed by the Audit Committee in December 2015 and confirmed AugustSeptember Determination of time horizon and risk by the Audit Committee in February 2016, prior to submission to the 2015 appetite.
Gap analysis with current planning Board which then decided on the statement to be made about the October 2015 Strategy and business planning and review of the system of internal control in the 2015 Annual Report determination of analysis required, including and Accounts.
agreement of the universe of severe but plausible scenarios An important element of monitoring the system of internal control is November 2015 Sensitivity analysis and stress-testing through the activity of Internal Audit across the Groups operations, as discussed further below.
The Audit Committee has assessed Internal December 2015 Review of the benchmarking and other data Audits findings throughout the year.
These findings have included collated to support the quantification of the certain operational control exceptions, including around compliance financial impact of those scenarios with regulations for handling hazardous materials and explosives, January 2016 Review of output from testing and drafting monitoring of electrical installations, installation of auxiliary services disclosures and Board paper within the mine, monitoring and operation of tailings deposits and February 2016 Audit Committee and Board approval and oversight over drilling contractors.
These issues are not pervasive forward planning throughout the Groups operations but are being prioritised by the Executive Committee and operational management.
Internal Audit plans to address them, including control improvements, are being The role of the Audit Committee is to review and monitor the Internal developed and implemented.
These plans are presented to the Audit Audit function, amongst others through: Committee for review and the Committee closely monitors progress Ensuring that the internal auditors have a direct reporting line to on an ongoing basis.
Closely monitoring the scope of services provided by Internal Audit As a result of the above activities, certain opportunities to improve by agreeing Internal Audits work plan up front and agreeing any monitoring activities were also identified.
The Audit Committee and subsequent changes to the plan.
the Executive Committee agreed action plans to implement these Considering the level and quality of the resources within the enhancements, including enhancing direct supervision from department and its appropriateness to the needs of the Fresnillo superintendent level and accountability from mine manager level Group.
with oversight from executive management.
The Audit Committee Setting annual objectives and influencing the priorities of the and the Board will continue to closely monitor the implementation Internal Audit function.
and progress of these initiatives during 2016.
Ensuring adequate recognition and development of the members of the team.
The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Periodically commissioning an external review of the Internal Audit Audit Committee at its February 2016 meeting, reviewed the department.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
As a result of this review, the Board considers that the measures that Internal Audit services are provided to the Company under a Shared have been or are planned to be implemented, complemented Services Agreement between the Company and Industrias Peoles Fresnillos risk management framework that is appropriate to the S. A. fide C. V. The Committee is satisfied that Internal Audit reports to Groups circumstances.
the Committee are from a fully independent perspective.
The Board is committed to the continued development of its In the current year the Audit Committee monitored discussions with internal control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining Internal Audit and executive management to align the internal best practice levels of risk management and internal control control environment with the current operations of the Group.
This for international mining companies listed on the London has been made easier by Internal Audits realignment of their focus Stock Exchange.
onto the controls surrounding the major operating risks across the operating divisions that concern management.
The Internal Audit team seek to complete audits of all the operating risks across all of the Fresnillo Groups mining assets on a regular basis.
Particular focus continues to be placed on auditing the Companys new mines to ensure that proper procedures are implemented from 122 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations the beginning in those new operations.
The Audit Committee receives The Shared Services Agreement is an agreement between the presentations and updates from the Group Internal Audit department Company and Peoles under which 23 categories of services are at each of its meetings throughout the year.
At each meeting during provided to the Company by Peoles.
The Audit Committee reviews the year, the Audit Committee has focused on the progress made by the Shared Services Agreement at each renewal, using external management in dealing with red flag items raised during internal advisers to review any revision in the legal terms, to benchmark the audit visits to ensure that the management responses to remediation proposed pricing against tenders requested from numerous are appropriate and timely.
alternative suppliers and use managements experience of both past performance against the KPIs agreed and any enhanced or additional The Head of Internal Audit meets with the members of the Audit services required.
Committee without management present at least twice a year and also attends the Committee meetings in full.
He is mandated to The Shared Services Agreement was renewed for five years with advise the Chairman of the Audit Committee if there are any issues effect from 31 December 2012.
Extensive work with KPMG was which he considers members of the Audit Committee should be undertaken at the time to ensure that the scope of services to be made aware of.
There were none in 2015. provided was appropriate to the needs of the Fresnillo Group: that the pricing for services provided under the Shared Services Agreement The Internal Audit work plan for 2016 was presented to and approved was appropriately benchmarked and that the arrangements were in by the Audit Committee in the October 2015 meeting.
This included a the ordinary course of business, not on unusual terms and had been review of the resourcing of the Internal Audit function.
negotiated on an arms length basis.
The Audit Committee presented this to the independent Directors in March 2014 and it was approved.
Whistleblowing arrangements The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy of In order to ensure that Fresnillo is charged appropriately for services whistleblowing arrangements and ensuring that appropriate rendered by Peoles under the Shared Services Agreement, investigation of any whistleblowing incidents has been undertaken.
management have regular meetings with Peoles to discuss its performance against the KPIs for each of the different categories of The Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders to service where issues of non-compliance are addressed and remediation anonymously via an independent third party report violations to the agreed.
In addition, Internal Audit conduct reviews of approximately Groups Code of Conduct.
The results are assessed by an independent one-third of the services provided each year to ensure that these third party and classified into 25 different categories.
Reports to the services are provided in accordance with the agreed KPIs.
As a result, all hotline are reviewed by an internal body called the Honour Commission, services are reviewed by Internal Audit over a three-year cycle.
which is comprised of the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer, the Compliance Officer currently the Chief Financial Officer, the During the year, in line with its usual practice, the Audit Committee Director of Internal Audit, the Vice President of Exploration and the considered the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex Legal Manager.
The Audit Committee regularly receives reports Arrangements for 2015 comparing proposed prices to comparable concerning the discussions and decisions of the Honour Commission.
prices charged by Met-Mex to independent customers and to those of During 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed summaries of the matters other refineries taking account of ore composition and transport costs discussed by the Honour Commission, which all related to minor local to ensure that they are reasonable.
Based on the satisfactory operational and human resources issues, and was satisfied that they outcome of that review, the Chairman of the Audit Committee had been properly investigated with appropriate action taken.
The Audit recommended to the Board that the Independent Directors approve Committee considers that the increasing volume of issues raised is the proposed charges for 2015 under the Met-Mex Arrangements, good evidence that the current programme is operating satisfactorily.
which they did in October 2015.
Related party matters There are other dealings with related parties in the ordinary course of Fresnillo plc is 75% owned by Peoles which, in turn, is controlled by business but, although not requiring approval by the Independent the Baillres family.
Whilst this means that Peoles has and will Directors, where they individually or in aggregate for a particular supply continue to have a significant level of influence over the affairs and become of a certain size, the Audit Committee will seek evidence that operations of Fresnillo, it also provides opportunities for synergistic they too are conducted on an arms length basis.
In 2015, the Audit benefits to be achieved if Fresnillo utilises Peoles Group resources for Committee requisitioned and reviewed benchmarking data for such some of its key operational requirements, particularly in day-to-day other related party activities which included the cost of insurance cover activities.
The Audit Committee has a role to play to ensure that the and the Committee was satisfied that the arrangements are on a benefits of such arrangements are realised within a framework in reasonable arms length basis.
which those transactions with related parties are conducted under normal market terms and conditions and shareholders interests are In October 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed a schedule of all safeguarded.
This is principally achieved by: the Companys other related party transactions during the year and Benchmarking data and information for related party transactions was satisfied that all transactions listed were in the ordinary course over a certain threshold.
Assessing the type and purpose of related party transactions and ascertaining whether they are in the normal course of business.
The Corporate Governance Report has been approved by the Board Reviewing the financial and commercial aspects of any transaction of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
proposed between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group prior to such matters being considered by the Independent NonSigned on behalf of the Board by executive Directors under the terms of the Relationship Agreement or in compliance with Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules.
Guy Wilson Critically assessing and challenging the appropriateness of any Senior Independent Director significant related party transactions and arrangements outside 29 February 2016 the normal course of business.
