Corporate governance report It is the primary responsibility of Corporate governance matters OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK the board to provide effective Policies The board leads the groups leadership for the group and this governance framework, setting Other matters such as settling isachieved by, amongst other things, material litigation, making major broad strategic targets, monitoring ensuring that decision making is progress, approving proposed changes to the groups pension conducted throughout the group scheme rules and the actions and ensuring appropriate within an improving internal controls are in place and appointment of group advisors control framework and by operating effectively.
By way of example, board approval Management decisions, development is required for: unbudgeted capital There is a detailed schedule of strategies and policies and projects of more than 10m: entering of matters which are reserved implementation of board decisions fall into a sales contract where annual to the decision of the board.
to the group executive committee.
revenue is anticipated to be more These matters fall under 12 categories: than 50m: any changes to the Regional management teams have groups capital structure: and Strategy and management responsibility for businesses within the annual operating and their regions and are tasked with Structure and capital capital expenditure budgets.
implementing policies and controls Financial reporting and controls at business unit level, as well as The board fulfils a number of its Risk and internal controls ensuring they meet agreed financial most important functions through Contracts and non-financial goals.
The work of these Communication committees is described below in The presence of a majority of this report.
The terms of reference independent non-executive Board membership and of each of the committees are directors on the board ensures other appointments available on the companys objectivity, challenge and debate.
Delegation of authority Governance structure Board Remuneration CSR Risk Audit Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee See pages 74-90 See page 66-67 See pages 67-68 See pages 68-73 See page 65 Group Risk and Group Executive Committee Audit committees Group and Regional Investment Regional Ethics Committee Committee Executives Group Risk & Internal Country Business Unit Executives Audit Function 60 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance The Nomination Committee is As part of this review process, BOARD BALANCE engaged in a process to recruit Lintstock also reported on the two new non-executive directors.
performance of each of the directors and separately on that Induction, information and ofthe chairman.
The individual director reviews were used as the professional development A tailored induction is provided to basis for the chairmans individual discussion with each of the directors new directors joining the board.
In Board balance the case of non-executive directors, about their performance and any Non-Executive John Connolly, training and development needs.
this includes spending time with the directors AdamCrozier, executive directors and other senior The report on the chairman was JohnDaly, MarkElliott, used to inform the discussion executives to understand the business, Winnie Fok, its structure and people, as well as amongst the non-executive directors 8 PaulSpence, about the chairman which was led the companys strategy and financial ClareSpottiswoode, performance.
Induction also provides by the senior independent director TimWeller without the chairman being present.
details of the groups governance Executive Ashley Almanza, policies and structure and risk Lintstock has no connection Himanshu Raja directors management framework.
with the company other than evaluating the board and its To build on the induction 2 programme, directors receive committees performance.
further briefings both to help in their own development and also Board tenure 2015 % to enhance their awareness of the 2016 primary board objectives different elements of the business.
Following consideration of Briefings are provided to board Lintstocks report on the members on legal, governance, boards performance, and after compliance and reporting consideration of priorities chosen developments and to members by the board and the strategy of board committees from time adopted by the company, the to time on matters relevant to board has agreed a set of primary their work on those committees.
objectives for its work in 2016, In addition, non-executive directors which will include: are encouraged to learn about the Reviewing progress on groups business and to meet execution of the strategy employees and management approved by the board through site visits and attendance 2 yrs or less 1 director JD at group conferences.
In 2015, Monitoring the performance 2 yrs 4 yrs 6 directors AC, PS, JC, TW, AA, HR non-executive directors visited of the leadership team, and 4 yrs 6 yrs 2 directors CS, WF secure solutions and cash solutions the transition to new leaders 6 yrs 8 yrs 0 directors operations and staff accommodation in certain regions 8 yrs 1 director ME centres in Dubai, an adult prison Increasing its understanding operated by the group in South of the regions and their Africa, a youth training centre businesses and people Board composition operated by the group in the UK As at the date of this report, the Reviewing the progress of and attended part of the groups board comprises 10 members: growth initiatives and the senior management conference.
the non-executive chairman development of the groups John Connolly, seven other technology businesses and Board performance review non-executive directors and two its global customers In 2015, Lintstock Limited assisted executive directors.
The board Maintaining emphasis on the board with its performance considers all the non-executive risk management and review.
The review involved detailed directors to be independent.
efficient structures self-assessment questionnaires being The names of the directors serving completed by board members and as at 31 December 2015 and their regular board committee attendees.
biographical details are set out on The results of the questionnaires pages 56 and 57.
All these directors were used as the basis for reports served throughout the year apart produced by Lintstock which from John Daly, a non-executive analysed the performance of not director who was appointed on only the board, but also each board 5 June 2015.
These reports were executive director, and Mark Seligman, considered by the board and each a non-executive director, both of the boards committees when retired from the board at the reviewing their performance and conclusion of the companys Annual informed the planning for the General Meeting on 4 June 2015. boards priorities in 2016.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 61 Corporate governance report continued Diversity Director re-election RELATIONS WITH Diversity is one of the groups SHAREHOLDERS organisational strengths and helps The companys articles of it operate successfully across a wide association require that all The company actively seeks to range of countries and complex continuing directors are subject engage with shareholders and environments.
Knowing its to election by shareholders at during 2015, senior management importance, the group seeks to the next Annual General Meeting had contact via one-on-one both foster and harness diversity following their appointment and meetings, group meetings and at all levels of the organisation.
At that they submit themselves for telephone conference calls the front-line it helps the group re-election at least every three with shareholders representing to connect better with the diverse years and that at least one-third over 80% of the share register range of customers it serves.
For of the directors not standing for and over 200 institutions.
election for the first time stand senior managers, having a global mindset and the ability to encourage for re-election at each annual The Chief Executive Officer and different ideas helps them get the general meeting.
However, Chief Financial Officer presented best from their teams and stay in accordance with the UK at analyst and investor meetings ahead of the competition.
In the Corporate Governance Code after the preliminary and half-year groups talent development provision on re-election of results were announced.
These programmes these are important directors, all the continuing presentations also included competencies which are nurtured directors stand for re-election strategy updates and were and reviewed through the groups every year.
available live via webcast and 360 feedback process.
the recording and transcripts are available on thegroups website.
For the board, diversity of thinking Conflicts authorisation and experience is seen as vital to The chairman met with major Each of the directors has ensure the group can seize the right shareholders as part of a general disclosed to the board any opportunities in each market to governance road show in January situations which apply to them grow and consider fully the risks 2016 and reported on those as a result of which they have of doing so.
As well as being diverse meetings to the board.
The chair or may have an interest which in terms of gender and ethnicity, of the CSR Committee, Clare conflicts or may conflict with the board also includes members Spottiswoode, and relevant the interests of the company.
In who have international assignment senior executives met with accordance with the companys experience and a mix of both long a group of socially responsible articles of association, the board serving and new members.
These investors in June 2015, updating has authorised such matters.
The differences help balance industry them on the groups corporate affected directors did not vote knowledge and expertise with responsibility programme.
In when their own interests were fresh perspectives and new market addition, Clare had a number of considered.
Whilst recruitment ad hoc meetings with investors deemed it appropriate, such of any new members to the board as did Tim Weller, in his capacity authorisation was given subject is always based on merit, diversity as chair of the Audit Committee.
The board is a key consideration.
In recent It is intended that all the directors reviews such matters on a appointments, assistance has been other than John Daly who had a regular basis.
sought from executive search prior engagement at the time he agencies which are signatories of the joined the board will attend and Voluntary Code of Conduct to help beavailable to answer questions ensure the most diverse talent pools at the companys Annual General are reached and best practice in line Meeting which is an important with Lord Davies review is adopted.
opportunity for communication between the board and shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting, the meeting is informed of the number of proxy votes cast and the same information is published subsequently on the companys website.
62 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Regular board dinners are held prior BOARD MEETINGS AND RISK MANAGEMENT AND to board meetings which provide an INFORMATION FLOW INTERNAL CONTROL opportunity for the directors to Seven board meetings were held The board has carried out a robust discuss topics in an informal during the year ended 31 December assessment of the principal risks environment outside the more 2015.
One of these meetings was facing the company and of how formal setting of the board meeting.
an extended two-day board and those risks might affect the After each board meeting the strategy session at which, in addition prospects of the company.
The chairman holds a meeting with the to normal board business, the board principal risks and their possible non-executive directors without and executive committee met and impact on the company and the the executives being present.
reviewed the group strategy by mitigations taken are set out on region and by business line, as pages 46-54.
The directors There are seven board meetings well as considering progress made acknowledge their responsibility scheduled for the current year, on the existing strategic plan, the for the groups system of risk including a two-day board and use of technology by the group management and internal control strategy meeting.
and its approach to people and and for reviewing its effectiveness organisation and values.
Through the Audit FAIR, BALANCED AND Committee, the board conducted Prior to each board meeting, UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT a review of the effectiveness of the comprehensive papers are circulated In accordancewith the UK systems of internal control during to the directors addressing not only Corporate Governance Code, the year.
The systems are designed the regular agenda items on which the board has given consideration to manage rather than eliminate the executives will report, but also to whether the annual report and the risk of failure to achieve business details of any matters requiring accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, objectives and can only provide approval or decisions, such as balanced and understandable.
The reasonable and not absolute significant transactions or events preparation of the annual report assurance against material or important market issues.
and accounts is coordinated by misstatement or loss.
the finance, investor relations and At each meeting the board receives The key features of the groups risk company secretariat teams with reports from the chairman, the chief management process, which was group-wide support and input executive, the chief financial officer in place throughout the year under from other areas of the business.
and the company secretary, an HR review, are: Comprehensive reviews were and health and safety report and undertaken at regular intervals an investor relations report, which Senior executives in each business throughout the process by includes summaries of analysts unit and region use a common management and other contributing reviews and any comments received risk management framework to personnel within the group.
The from major shareholders since the provide a profile of those risks board has reviewed a paper prepared previous board meeting.
The board which may have an impact on by management and has separately receives regular in-depth presentations the achievement of their considered the disclosures in the from regional management and from business objectives.
annual report and accounts and the management of business units Each significant risk is documented has concluded that they are fair, and the board makes visits to in the groups risk management balanced and understandable.
The business sites from time to time.
system, showing an overview of statement required to be given by After meetings of the board the risk, its owner, how the risk is the directors by Code provision committees, the respective chairmen managed, and any improvement C. 1.1 can be found on page 95. report to the board on the matters actions.
Risk appetite tolerance is considered by each committee.
considered in the context of the residual after controls and mitigation risk with a particular focus on High net risks.
To be Meeting attendance in 2015 categorised as High a risk Board must meet at least one of meetings the following criteria: Executive directors Ashley Almanza CEO 7 7 major impact on the achievement of the Himanshu Raja CFO 7 7 business strategy: Grahame Gibson 1 4 serious damage to Non-executive directors business reputation: John Connolly chairman 7 7 severe business disruption: Mark Elliott senior independent director 7 7 Clare Spottiswoode 7 7 impact of 5% on operating profit or assets.
Winnie Fok 7 7 Paul Spence 7 7 Adam Crozier 7 7 Tim Weller 7 7 John Daly 3 3 Mark Seligman 4 4 Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 63 Corporate governance report continued The risk profiles ensure that planned mitigations to the Risk reported monthly and variances are internal audit reviews of the Committee of the board.
A programme of balance adequacy, application and process outlined above is reviewed sheet reviews is included in the effectiveness of risk management regularly by the board through work of group internal audit.
and internal controls are targeted its Risk Committee to ensure its The Audit Committee undertakes a on the key risks.
robustness and suitability to meet high-level review of risk management the groups needs.
Risk management committees and internal control each year.
As have been established at regional During 2016 the risk management well as the above processes and and group level.
improvement plan will focus on: sources of assurance, the Audit Risk and control self-evaluation Committee also considers the enhancing the quality of exercises are undertaken for each following year end reporting information being provided operating company, for most in conducting this review: by businesses: companies at least once a year, Summary of internal audit work managing the groups residual and updated risk profiles are including update on all open risk exposure: prepared.
Similar exercises are audits with a deficient rating, undertaken as part of the progress on implementation analysis of results by region, integration process for all major of mitigation action plans: and common audit findings and acquisitions.
The results of the new and emerging risks.
areas identified for improvement company risk evaluations are in internal controls: assessed by the regional risk In 2016 the regional risk and audit Summary of internal financial management committees.
committees will focus on risks reviews including significant arising from control weaknesses Both the regional committees and accounting or financial control identified through both business unit the group executive committee issues and common concerns control self-assessments and audits.
receive internal audit reports identified: Review of the risks to strategic and regular reports on risks.
Overview of year-end financial objectives will take place during the They monitor the actions taken annual business planning round and control status reports completed to manage risks.
by all businesses confirming through trading reviews at least The process is carried out under twice per year.
adherence to group standards with any exceptions reported: the overall supervision of the group Further information about the executive committee.
The chief A broad overview of the general Risk Committee, its remit, work executive officer, chief financial risk management and internal during 2015 and its plans for 2016 officer and group director of risk control systems in place during can be found on page 67. and audit report on risks and the year: The internal control system includes Review of risk management clearly defined reporting lines processes and of the groups and authorisation procedures, principal residual risks by the COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK a comprehensive budgeting and Risk Committee of the board: and monthly reporting system and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE External audit year-end reporting written policies and procedures.
The boards statement on the companys corporate on financial controls and governance performance is based on the September In addition to a wide range of accounting.
2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance internal audit reports, senior Code, which is available on the Financial Reporting management also receive assurance Further information about the Audit Councils website https: www.
from other sources including security Committee, its remit, work during inspections, third party reviews, 2015 and its plans for 2016 can The Listing Rules require companies to disclose company financial control reviews, be found on pages 68-73. whether or not they have complied with all relevant external audit reports, summaries of provisions in the Code and to report how the main Notwithstanding the significant whistleblowing activity, fraud reports principles in the Code have been applied by the control failings related to the prior and risk and control self-evaluations.
The Code recognises that alternatives to year restatements described on following its provisions may be justified in particular The group has in place appropriate page 72, the Audit Committee circumstances if good governance can be achieved internal control and risk management has confirmed that it is satisfied by other means, provided the reasons are explained systems for financial reporting.
The that thegroups risk management clearly and carefully.
In such cases companies should group has a single global consolidation and internal control processes and also aim to illustrate how their actual practices are system which is used for both procedures are appropriate.
The consistent with the principle in question, contribute internal management reporting, board has reviewed the groups risk to good governance and promote delivery of budgeting and planning as well management and internal control business objectives.
system for the year to 31 December 2015 by considering reports from The company complied throughout the year The group has a comprehensive the Audit Committee and the Risk under review with the provisions of the Code.
The budgeting process with the budget Committee and has taken account Corporate governance report, together with the being approved by the board.
Audit committee report, the Risk committee report Forecasts for the year are reported and the Directors remuneration report, describe quarterly.
Actual results at business how the board has applied these provisions.
unit, region and group level are 64 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Committee chairman the succession plans for the THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE and member of the Nomination most senior board roles.
Committee and Adam sits on the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Diversity The Nomination Committee has The boards approach to diversity given consideration to how these is set out on page 62. roles will be filled as well as to the balance of expertise and experience Committee performance available to the board after Marks The performance of the and Adams departures.
Accordingly, Nomination Committee was John Daly has agreed to take on the reviewed as part of the process Remuneration Committee undertaken by each of the board chairmanship and JCA Partners LLP committees with assistance from has been appointed to assist the Lintstock.
The Nomination Nomination Committee to recruit Committees performance was John Connolly two more non-executive directors.
determined to have been satisfactory, Nomination Committee Chairman but areas of increased focus were Neither Zygos nor JCA has any identified and have been included connection with the company other as priorities for the committees The Nomination Committee continued than as provider of recruitment work in 2016. consultancy services to the the work it began in 2014 when it Nomination Committee, save initiated a process to find a new nonPriorities for 2016 that JCA has in the past also executive director.
This resulted in The committees primary specific provided a benchmarking service focus in 2016, along with that of John Dalys appointment in June 2015. for a senior management role.
the board as whole, will be the Following analysis of the needs of the Mr Elliotts term of appointment recruitment of two new nonexpired during 2015 and the board, a further process has begun to executive directors, refreshing the committee recommended to find two more non-executive directors composition of certain of the board the board that his appointment be committees and appointing a new to complement the range of skills and extended after consideration of his Senior Independent Director.
It will experience which the board has independence, commitment to the also ensure that longer-term succession role, his other commitments and the already and to replace Mark Elliott planning remains a subject which experience and qualities he brings is given due attention at all levels.
and Adam Crozier later this year.
Mr Elliott did not participate in the committees deliberations on this matter.
Committee membership and attendance Meetings Responsibilities attended The Nomination Committee John Connolly Chairman 3 of 3 is responsible for making Adam Crozier 3 of 3 recommendations to the board Mark Elliott 2 of 3 on appointments and on maintaining a balance of skills and experience Mr Elliott did not attend one meeting since his own position Main activities of the Nomination on the board and its committees.
Succession planning for the board is Committee during the year % a matter which is devolved primarily to the Nomination Committee, although the committees deliberations Refreshing the board are reported to and debated by Two directors retired from the the full board.
The board itself also board in 2015: Grahame Gibson reviews more general succession and Mark Seligman.
The Nomination planning for the senior management Committee and the board concluded of the group.
that it was not necessary to appoint a new executive director, but that The committees terms of reference are available at w. w. w. g4s.
com a non-executive appointment was required.
was appointed by the board in June.
The Nomination Committee was Succession planning Recruitment of new NEDs 60% assisted by Zygos LLP with the The entire board has considered Extending terms of appointment process it undertook to fill this role.
succession planning for the senior for NEDs 10% management of the group In May 2016, Mark Elliott and Adam Succession planning 15% during 2015 and, in addition, Crozier will retire from the board.
Reviewing board committee the Nomination Committee Mark fulfils a number of roles membership 15% gave further consideration to Senior Independent Director, Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 65 Corporate governance report continued Responsibilities support those businesses where THE CSR COMMITTEE fatalities have occurred in assessing The CSR Committee reviews and monitors the groups CSR strategy, their health and safety management, raising awareness and sharing which includes developing policies on various CSR-related matters good practices.
for consideration by the board and The committee oversaw the annual reviewing the activities of the review of the groups Business Ethics executives who have responsibility Policy, the document which defines for CSR matters.
The CSR Committee what the group considers are acceptable and unacceptable Main activities of the CSR business practices.
Committee during the year % The committee also oversaw the launch of the groups new and enhanced whistleblowing process Clare Spottiswoode Speak Out in September 2015.
CSR Committee Chair Hosted by an independent specialist hotline and case management provider, Speak Out allows G4S With operations in around 100 countries employees to raise ethical matters and 610,000 employees, we are acutely of concern online or via a free aware that G4S is well placed to make a telephone service.
The system includes a case management system positive contribution to societies across to better record, manage and report the globe.
Good CSR practice plays a on whistleblowing cases.
The CSR vital role in successful, long term business Committee also participated directly Current issues 15% in the CSR materiality assessment outcomes.
Therefore we are focusing Health and Safety 25% exercise, which takes place every on ensuring that our CSR priorities CSR reporting 20% two years and assesses the current are an integral part of doing business.
market environment, business Business ethics, anti-corruption, human rights 30% challenges and most relevant 2015 saw the launch of our new and sustainability issues.
The results CSR materiality assessment 10% enhanced whistleblowing process and of the materiality exercise, which will inform the groups future CSR we conducted a review of our corporate also reviews and monitors how strategy and CSR reporting, are values against our business and CSR the group performs against relevant presented in the CSR Report 2015. priorities.
This will result in a re-launch policies.
The committee oversees reporting on CSR matters and the of our values to the organisation and Medway STC companys separate CSR Report for On 30 December 2015, G4S our stakeholders during 2016.
Sadly, 46 2015, which provides more detail Childrens Services UK referred employees lost their lives performing on the groups CSR strategy and a number of serious allegations of their duty, so we will continue to invest in progress made during the year, inappropriate staff conduct at the is available at www.
health and safety awareness and training.
Medway Secure Training Centre to Further details of the committees Medways Local Authority Designated responsibilities can be found in the Officer for safeguarding children Committee membership and attendance committees terms of reference which LADO, the Youth Justice Board Meetings are available at www.
of England and Wales and the Ministry scheduled of Justice MoJ.
The allegations The CSR Committee receives Clare Spottiswoode Chair 3 of 3 centred on the unnecessary use regular updates on current issues Winnie Kin Wah Fok 3 of 3 of force and the use of improper from the groups internal audit, Paul Spence 3 of 3 language.
The LADO, in conjunction human resources and CSR teams.
with the police and other relevant As part of the CSR Committees authorities, commenced an Other regular attendees include Peter Neden, the focus on health and safety during independent investigation into regional president for the UK and Ireland region and the year, the committee oversaw the allegations.
a member of the group executive committee, the a number of initiatives aimed at This matter was discussed in detail group corporate affairs director and the group embedding good health and safety by the CSR Committee as well as human resources director.
Other by the board, which made enquiries initiatives focused on accident about the root causes of these prevention and the sharing of best incidents, the appropriateness practice across the group.
As part and completeness of the remedial of its normal cycle of work, the action plan and considered how committee received regular health the learnings from this event could and safety reports including the drive an improvement of the control results of six critical country reviews environment across the organisation.
CCRs carried out during the year.
The board was satisfied that, CCRs are an important tool to 66 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance pending the outcome of the police Responsibilities THE RISK COMMITTEE investigation and the conclusions The Risk Committee advises the reached by the Independent board on the groups overall risk Improvement Board appointed by appetite, develops the groups risk the MoJ, appropriate remedial action management strategy, advises the had been taken to strengthen the Audit Committee and the board on control environment, prevent the risk exposures and reviews the level re-occurrence of such events and of risk within the group and assesses ensure the groups values are the effectiveness of the groups adhered to and their importance risk management systems.
The reiterated across the organisation.
committees composition ensures that a broad-ranging set of skills and Committee performance experience come together to look at how the group manages risk in The assessment of the committees performance, conducted as part of the business.
The Risk Committee Paul Spence also considers major contracts the overall board review process Risk Committee Chairman with assistance from Lintstock, which require board approval due to their size or level of risk.
concluded that the committee continued to perform well in Further details can be found in As announced at the beginning of the the committees terms of reference monitoring compliance with CSR year, I succeeded John Connolly as policies and in seeking to embed available at www.
chairman of the Risk Committee in them within the groups business processes.
Following the performance Main activities of the Risk January 2016.
John remains a member review, the committee has concluded Committee during the year % of the committee and I am very that it should continue to focus on a grateful for his continued support.
small set of topics that are relevant globally and provide strong oversight Since its inception over two years on improving them, as well as ensuring ago, the Risk Committee has led a that health and safety and compliance programme of improvement in risk continues to be a major focus.
management quality across the group Priorities for 2016 through changes to the governance Priorities for 2016 include the structures and processes.
Our focus for oversight of changes to the groups 2016 is to place more accountability values to ensure better alignment for risk management where it is most with the group strategy and vision.
In addition, the CSR Committee will effective, i. e. at operating unit level.
To be monitoring progress on the review Large contract bid approvals 20% this end, the Risk Committee will now of the group human rights policy, with In depth review of speci c focus on improving the understanding a particular focus on businesses high risk contracts 25% operating in high-risk countries.
and compliance by operating unit Risk governance internal controls 30% management teams of those controls Contracts risk management 25% which have the most material impact on the management of our key risks.
Risk governance remained a strong area of focus during 2015 with the Risk Committee receiving regular Committee membership and attendance reports on the performance of Meetings regional risk and audit committees attended and the continuing process of 2 Scheduled Unscheduled embedding enterprise risk 1 Paul Spence management standards.
Having Chairman 4 of 4 2 of 2 defined the groups risk appetite Ashley Almanza 4 of 4 2 of 2 and developed a more precise John Connolly 4 of 4 1 of 2 and formal risk appetite statement, which was approved by the board Himanshu Raja 4 of 4 2 of 2 in 2014, the risk appetite statement Tim Weller 3 of 4 2 of 2 was disseminated across the group.
Paul Spence became chairman in January 2016.
This allowed comparison of reported residual risk against risk 2.
Unscheduled meetings were called at short notice and it was appetite.
During the year, the Risk not always possible for all directors to attend.
Committee received regular updates on significant residual risks and Other regular attendees include the group general carried out detailed reviews of counsel and the group director of risk and audit.
three of them: IT security risk Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 67
