Mel Brooks Chief Executive Officer Regional President, Africa See page 56 for full biography Mel was appointed Regional President, Africa in May 2015.
Claude Allain Mels previous roles within G4S Regional President, as Group Strategy & Commercial Middle East & India Director and CEO for G4S India 1 2 have shown Mels ability to Claude joined G4S as Regional transform businesses, focusing President, Middle East & India in on key customer segments and January 2016. improving customer service Claude has a proven track record andsales.
Prior Prior to joining G4S, Mel held a to joining G4S, he was vice president number of senior line and functional and general manager for Johnson roles in the defence and technology Controls Middle-East & Africa and industry where he was responsible he had several general management 3 4 for service line and commercial positions in Southern Europe, strategies, technology development Eastern-Europe and North America and leadership of a number of and Middle-East.
Claude brings a wealth of experience in service and technology industries, 5.
Jon Corner having previously held senior Regional President, Asia Pacific business development and general management roles in Honeywell, Jon was appointed Regional Emerson and Invensys.
Claude holds a bachelors degree in Chemical and Physic Science Jon joined G4S in November from University of Rennes, a 2012 as Regional Sales Director Master in Finance from ICG and has led the transformation and also graduated from INSEAD.
of the commercial function across the Asia Middle East Region over the past three years.
Martin Alvarez Prior to joining G4S, Jon was Regional President, Latin America the executive vice president for 7 8 Inchcape Shipping Services, a Martin joined G4S as Regional maritime services company with President, Latin America and offices in over 65 countries.
Jon Caribbean in 2013. held various line and functional roles Martin has extensive experience with Inchcape Shipping Services over working and living in the Latin a 13 year period.
America Region for over 15 years and a wealth of experience in 6.
John Kenning strategic commercial and operational Regional CEO, North America roles.
Martin joined G4S from Dell, 9 10 where he served eight years in John joined G4S in November 2014 regional roles, finishing as executive to lead the North America region.
director of multi-country Latin John has a proven track record America MCLA, responsible for 38 leading global organisations.
Prior to countries, more than US $1 billion joining G4S, John was executive vice in revenue and the Americas Shared president and president, commercial Service Centre with over 3,000 business for OfficeMax where he employees.
Prior to Dell, Martin led the global, business-to-business spent 10 years with DHL holding division.
John was formerly president, 11 12 various management and leadership North America commercial for roles including Sr. Vice President, ADT Tyco Security Services, where DHL Mexico, and General Manager he led the transformation of the for several other countries in the business to a technology services region and Global Accounts Director.
leader and also led the separation Martin has an MBA from IESE in of the residential and commercial Barcelona and a bachelors degree security businesses in North America.
in International Trade and Finance from Louisiana State University.
13 58 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance John is a board member for Miami 9.
Jesus Rosano University Advisory Athletic Board Group HR Director Group Strategy and and past board member of the Commercial Director Make-a-Wish Foundation.
John Jenni became Group HR Director holds a bachelors degree in inJuly 2015 and has extensive Jesus joined G4S in March 2014 business from Miami University.
experience in employee engagement, as Regional Business Development talent management and organisational SVP to lead the implementation development, in addition to an of new commercial structures 7.
Graham Levinsohn understanding and insight of working and processes through G4S Latin Regional CEO, Europe with one of the largest private America.
In 2015 his responsibilities Graham became Regional CEO, workforces in the world.
expanded to Chief Operations Europe in November 2013.
Graham Officer adding to his commercial Jenni joined G4S in 1998 and has has more than 20 years experience role the responsibility to implement held several senior HR roles at in the security industry, having joined restructures and efficiency programs both a group and regional level.
As Securicor Cash Services in 1994 in operations across the Latin Director of Employee Engagement & as general manager.
American businesses including Cash, HR, Jenni led the groups employee Manned Services and Technology Since then, Graham has held a engagement and labour relations businesses.
Jesus was appointed number of commercial and line strategy and held general HR Group Strategy and Commercial management positions in both responsibility for Africa, Asia, Middle Director in January 2016. the cash and security lines of the East & Latin America.
Graham was responsible Officer for the Americas region Jenni Jesus joined G4S from DHL, a for the creation of the UK cash led the people and organisation logistics business-to-business global centres outsourcing business in strategy across 30 countries and company, where he held various 2001 as managing director, before over 100,000 employees.
line, functional and regional roles in moving on to become divisional different markets in Latin America Prior to joining G4S, Jenni held HR managing director for G4S Cash and North America.
Before DHL, positions in a variety of business Services UK, and then regional Jesus worked in strategy consulting sectors such as automotive, FMCG president, Nordics.
He became and investment banking with and consulting.
Jenni is a Fellow of group strategy and development projects in diverse industries.
the Chartered Institute of Personnel director in 2008 and joined the Jesus holds a bachelors degree & Development FCIPD.
executive committee in 2010. in Engineering and Administration from ITESM University, Mexico.
Graham is a fellow of the Chartered 10.
Peter Neden Institute of Marketing, a director Regional President, UK & Ireland of COESS, and a member of the 13.
Debbie Walker Ligue Internationale des Socits Peter became Regional President of Group Corporate Affairs Director fide Surveillance.
Peter was Debbie is Group Corporate Affairs previously Regional managing director Director, heading the corporate of G4S Outsourcing Services for the 8.
Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen communications team which focuses UK & Ireland region.
Group General Counsel on the groups key audiences Previous roles included responsibility media, government, employees Sren began his career as a lawyer for the business development and customers.
Debbie is also in Denmark and since 1984 he has programme within G4S in the responsible for the groups CSR had a wide range of legal experience UK and Africa regions, as well as a and human rights strategies.
as general counsel for international number of senior positions in both groups in Denmark, Belgium and the Prior to the merger between Group the commercial and government US before joining Group 4 Falck in 4 Falck and Securicor, Debbie held businesses across the group.
a number of senior marketing and Prior to the merger between Group communications roles within the Sren has been involved in a wide 4 Falck and Securicor, Peter was Securicor group from 1993 to 2004. range of successful mergers and Securicors development director, acquisitions during his career, Debbie is also vice chairman of the having joined the company in 2001. including the acquisition of CBI South East Regional Council Peters early career included a Wackenhut and the Group 4 the representative body for all CBI number of sales, marketing and Falck merger with Securicor.
member companies based in the general management roles within South East of England and the Sren has overall responsibility Centrica.
Peter has a degree in Thames Valley, having previously for all internal and external legal economics from the University served as chairman for two years.
services for G4S as well as the of Nottingham.
Himanshu Raja Sren is non-executive director of Basico A S, a member of the Danish Group Chief Financial Officer Bar and Law Society, a member of See page 57 for full biography the advisory board of the Danish UK Chamber of Commerce and author of the book Executive Management Contracts, published in Denmark.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 59
