40 Governance Maintaining strong governance across the Group Executive Chairman and Deputy Chairman This year the Group has met the There is a clear specification of duties of Executive Chairman and challenges posed by significant Board Deputy Chairman to ensure proper division of responsibilities and balance of power.
The Board believes that the arrangements put in changes while continuing to maintain place provide a robust transitional governance structure until Peter Truscott joins as Chief Executive on 1 October 2015.
During the strong governance, and deliver and period of combined Chairman and Chief Executive, from October enhance the Groups strategy 2014 to October 2015, the Executive Chairman held responsibility for strategy, business performance and management of the Group while the Deputy Chairman held responsibility for governance, the The announcement in September 2014 that Greg Fitzgerald, the performance of the Board and for monitoring the effectiveness Groups Chief Executive, planned to retire and thesubsequent of the Executive Chairman.
Prior to October 2014, the roles of decision by Ian Coull to step down due to other commitments Chairman and Chief Executive were as disclosed in previous required increased focus by the Board on compositionand governance reports.
Copies of the respective roles of the Chairman succession.
In response, the Group consulted with major institutional and Chief Executive and when applicable Executive Chairman shareholders and other stakeholders andrecommended the and Deputy Chairman are available on the Groups website.
The appointment of Greg Fitzgerald as Executive Chairman for a limited Company will start to revert to recommended best practice from period, supported by PeterRogersas Deputy Chairman to provide October 2015 when Peter Truscott joins.
Greg Fitzgerald will remain stability and continuity of performance.
The specifically defined as Executive Chairman to effect a smooth transition until 1 January separation of roles of Executive Chairman and Deputy Chairman 2016, when he will become Non-executive Chairman.
ensured that strong governance was maintained throughout the temporary period while a new Chief Executive and non-executive Peter Rogers served as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent directorsweresought.
Director from 21 October 2014 until 30 April 2015.
Peter Ventress was appointed to the Board on 30 April 2015 and assumed the Peter Truscott will join as Chief Executive in October 2015 and role of Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director from GregFitzgerald will relinquish his executive responsibilities in that date.
January 2016 and become Non-executive Chairman, whereupon the Group will revert to its previous governance structure of separate Non-executive Chairman and Chief Executive.
Following Balance of non-executive and executive directors Greg Fitzgeralds anticipated retirement as Chairman at the 2017 AGM, Peter Ventress will become Chairman.
Non-executive Executive Board composition Biographical summaries for each of the directors, their respective committee responsibilities and their external directorships are set 5 3 out on pages 38 and 39.
Length of appointment All directors continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, and will stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
02 years 25 510 10 years years years Peter Truscott has been appointed as Chief Executive from 1October 2015.
Ken Gillespie was appointed as Chief Operating Officer from 30 April 2015.
Peter Ventress and Gavin Slark were 5 1 1 1 appointed as non-executive directors from 30 April 2015 and 13May 2015, respectively.
Since 30 April 2015, Peter Ventress Diversity has also been Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller were appointed chairs of the Male Female Remuneration and Nomination committees on 16 September and 21 October 2014, respectively.
Amanda Burton, Ian Coull and Peter Rogers stepped down from the Board on 16 September, 21October 2014 and 30 April 2015, respectively.
Greg Fitzgerald has indicated his intention to retire as Chairman at the 2017 AGM.
6 2 There have been no other changes to the Board, either during orsince the end of the financial year.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials 41 Senior Independent Director Diversity Amanda Burton was the Groups Senior Independent Director until In 2013 the Board stated its commitment to addressing the 16 September 2014 when the role was assumed by Peter Rogers, expectations of the Davies Report Women on Boards where who served as Interim Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent appropriate and possible, and women currently hold 25% of Director until 30 April 2015 when he was replaced by Peter Ventress.
Furthermore, the Nomination Committee undertakes to consider a diverse range of candidates, including The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders those from backgrounds not currently represented at Board level, throughout the year, in accordance with the UK Corporate for positions as and when they become available, while basing Governance Code.
During the year, the Senior Independent recruitment decisions on merit.
Director kept major shareholders informed of the progress of Board succession generally.
Further diversity disclosures can be found in the Strategic Report on page 35.
Non-executive directors Other than the changes referenced, the roles and responsibilities of each of the non-executive directors, which are detailed in their individual letters of appointment, have not changed from the previous financial year.
The letters of appointment are available forinspection on request at the Companys registered office andwill be available immediately prior to the AGM.
20142015 governance review The table below summarises the main governance challenges faced by the Group during the year, their implications, mitigating actions and the results thereof, together with other material governance initiatives undertaken.
Governance action Explanation Governance implications Mitigating actions and result The decision of the Chairman to step down from The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends Following consultation with shareholders, the Chief Board composition and theBoard in October 2014 led to the Chief Executive, that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Executive assumed the role of Executive Chairman succession: appointment who had previously announced his intention to retire should not be exercised by the same individual, that for a specific and limited time period from October inDecember 2015, to be recommended to assume a Chief Executive should not go on to chair the same 2014 to December 2015.
During this time, the Deputy ofExecutive Chairman therole of Executive Chairman.
Company, and that a Chairman should be independent Chairman assumed responsibility for governance of on appointment, unless the Company explains why the Group and performance of the Board.
Re-election The Board consulted with major institutional these principles should not apply.
of the Executive Chairman was supported by over shareholders and other stakeholders, recommending 95% of shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Following the appointment of Greg Fitzgerald as Executive the appointment of the new Chief Executive Peter Chairman for a limited period to provide stability and Truscott, the Executive Chairman will relinquish his continuity of the excellent performance of the Group.
Following the announcements regarding the planned The percentage of independent non-executive directors New appointments have brought the Board fresh Board composition and retirement of the Chief Executive and the stepping decreased from 67% in the previous year to 63%, with experience and ideas to complement the existing independence: new Board down of the Chairman, the Board, led by the the gender diversity percentage also decreasing from members.
The experience of Greg Fitzgerald will appointments Nomination Committee, commenced searches for apeak of 33% to 25%.
continue to be available to the Group.
a new Chief Executive and additional non-executive directors to replace Ian Coull, Greg Fitzgerald and Due to his former executive responsibilities, Greg As Greg Fitzgerald is not considered independent, the Peter Rogers.
Fitzgerald is not considered independent for UK number of Board committees on which he may sit or corporate governance purposes.
There is however, a sufficient number of independent non-executive directors to ensure the size and composition of the Boards relevant committees are appropriate and comply with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Following appointment of external candidates Succession planning at Board-level should be Each Executive Director and senior manager is directly Succession planning: Executive suchas the Chief Executive and Managing Director replicated at upper management levels, such as responsible for their own succession plans and the Board and divisional board level Construction Division in May 2015 the Group, led by the Groups Executive Board and divisional board development plans of their successors.
the Executive Chairman and Chair of the Nomination levels to ensure talent and potential are nurtured and Committee commenced a thorough review and refresh quality internal candidates are available to progress of talent mapping and succession planning.
to Executive Board and plc Board-level positions, ensuring a progressive refreshing of those boards.
Following a simplification project to reduce the number Reducing the number of dormant and non-trading The structure of the Groups legal entities now Group simplification of entities in the Group in 2013, further phases were entities reduces the compliance cost, risk, and closely relates to its management and operational undertaken in 2014 and 2015 to align the legal structure administrative burden for the Group.
structure, providing clarity for reporting purposes with the management and operational structure andthe appropriate structure to support future and further reduce the number of dormant and Groupdevelopments.
Following the introduction of electronic board packs To ensure that the Board is supplied with information in a Divisional managing directors present their reports to Review and update of Board in 2013, the Board and Executive Board reviewed timely manner and in a form and of a quality appropriate the Board in writing or personally.
Average Board pack and Executive Board papers the style and content of reports and agenda items to to enable it to discharge its duties effectively.
length has been reduced by up to 50%.
ensure relevant information is being provided clearly and reporting and concisely.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 42 Governance continued Board: attendance All directors have access to the advice and services of the General All meetings were led by the Chairman Executive Chairman, Counsel and Company Secretary.
No director sought independent including a specific performance assessment day at which advice during the financial year.
The Company Secretary was in attendance.
The Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Using the Groups well-established processes as a basis, an internal Director separately led a meeting of the non-executive directors Board performance evaluation was completed online using specialist to assess performance of the Executive Chairman, without performance evaluation software.
The software greatly improved the himpresent.
speed and clarity of reporting and was well received by participants.
Board: remit The 2015 evaluation addressed themes including Board mechanics There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for prior and effectiveness: Group performance and delivery of the authorisation by the Board, the specifics of which have not enhanced strategy: and governance and sustainability.
Tailored materially changed from those disclosed in previous years.
The committee evaluations were also performed, covering areas such Board held its annual strategy awayday in October 2014, reviewed ascommittee mechanics and effectiveness, committee governance, progress against the Group business plan to 2018 and considered communication, risk and internal controls, and external audit.
Each succession planning in respect of the Executive Board.
aspect of the evaluation sought to gauge opinion on detailed aspects of the committees workings, recent Group developments and The Board continues to benefit from its established reporting market practice.
Individual performance evaluations focused on the mechanisms, which are designed to ensure crucial management effectiveness of the contributions made by directors.
Consideration and project-specific information, and significant Group-wide was given to the aggregate time commitments of the non-executive developments are reported quickly and accurately, and facilitate directors.
The Board is satisfied that each director is committed to prompt approval of further actions.
Throughout the year the Board his or her role.
The findings and recommendations were presented also received regular Group, divisional and business unit-specific to, and approved by, the Board in May 2015.
As required by the presentations, covering all aspects of the Groups operations.
UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group will beundertaking anexternal performance evaluation in 2016.
Board: information, advice, evaluation, insurance andindemnity The Group maintains appropriate Directors and Officers Liability Well-established Board procedures for the timely provision of Insurance on behalf of, and provides individual indemnities to, the information in advance of all Board and committee meetings and directors, and General Counsel and Company Secretary, which for the provision of independent professional advice, remained complies with the provisions of Section 234 of the Companies inoperation throughout the financial year.
2014 15 Board and committee attendance table Executive Audit Nomination Remuneration 5 Board Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings scheduled attended 8 12 3 4 4 Greg Fitzgerald Executive Chairman 8 12 By invitation By invitation By invitation 1 Peter Ventress Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 1 n a 1 1 1 Andrew Jenner Non-executive Director 8 n a 3 4 4 6 6 Ishbel Macpherson Non-executive Director 7 n a 3 3 4 Terry Miller Non-executive Director 8 n a 3 4 4 1 Gavin Slark Non-executive Director n a Ken Gillespie Chief Operating Officer 8 12 n a n a n a Graham Prothero Finance Director 8 12 By invitation n a n a Kevin Corbett General Counsel and Company Secretary 8 12 3 4 4 2 Amanda Burton 2 n a 1 1 2 3 Ian Coull 3 n a By invitation 1 2 4 Peter Rogers 6 n a 2 3 3 1 Peter Ventress and Gavin Slark joined the Board on 30 April 2015 and 13 May 2015, respectively.
2 Amanda Burton stepped down from the Board on 16 September 2014.
3 Ian Coull stepped down from the Board on 21 October 2014.
4 Peter Rogers stepped down from the Board on 30 April 2015.
5 Includes one meeting held by way of written resolution.
6 Ishbel Macpherson was unable to attend one meeting due to a family bereavement.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials 43 Executive Board Report Membership of the Executive Board is detailed on pages 38 and 39.
Executive management is normally the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
He chairs the Executive Board, which in turn takes responsibility for the operational management of the Group under terms of reference delegated by the main Board.
From October 2014, the Executive Board was chaired by the Executive Chairman.
The Executive Board also has further delegated responsibility for making recommendations to the main Board on all items included in the formal schedule of matters reserved for main Board authorisation.
There are regular performance and operational related reports and presentations from divisional management.
The Assistant Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Executive Board.
The minutes of Executive Board meetings are included as part of Group Board packs, while minutes of each divisional board are included in the Executive Board packs.
The Executive Board meets on a monthly basis and additional Introduction: Andrew Jenner meetings are convened when necessary to consider and authorise Audit Committee Chair specific operational or project matters.
The Audit Committee has focused Calendar of 2014 15 Board activities and areas of focus itsattention on the financial reporting Month Activity or area of focus July 2014 Site visit Resorts World Birmingham Construction implications of the Miller Construction Approval of 20142015 Group budget Presentation and review Housebuilding acquisition, changes in the UK Proposed Miller Construction acquisition Corporate Governance Code and September Full year results and Annual Report Presentation and review Construction maintaining appropriate processes Annual corporate governance review toensure the Annual Report is fair, October Strategy meeting Board changes succession planning balanced and understandable.
November AGM Governance arrangements following Board changes Audit Committee Report December Health, Safety & Sustainability performance review The Committee has continued to monitor and review the results, Presentation and review risk registers and Risk Committee riskmanagement and internal control framework of a Group which 20152018 business plan is growing in size and complexity as a result of improving markets and acquisitions, such as Miller Construction and Shepherd Homes.
February 2015 Presentation and review IT and Oracle Presentation and review Procurement Half year results I am pleased to confirm on behalf of the Committee that the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements are considered fair, April Site visit Wilshere Park Housebuilding balanced and understandable in terms of the form and content Presentations Linden Homes, Galliford Try Partnerships, Affordable Housing & Regeneration of the strategic, governance and financial information presented Board changes therein.
The Group has evolved the format of the Annual Report and Financial Statements over recent financial years and this May Site visit Subsea 7 Building report represents a consolidation of that process, especially Presentations Construction, Investments Board performance evaluation and planning for in respect of remuneration reporting whereby the Directors non-executive director appraisals Remuneration Report reports against the previously disclosed Annual Report design concepts andapproved Policy.
Succession planning review Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 44 Governance continued We welcomed the appointment of Peter Ventress and Gavin Slark The Committee reviewed the integrity of the Groups financial as Committee members in April and May 2015, respectively.
We statements and all formal announcements relating to the Groups look forward to benefiting from their input and fresh perspectives financial performance.
This included an assessment of each and working closely together as a Committee into the next critical accounting policy, as set out on page 77, as well as review financial period and beyond.
The Committee is also working well and debate over the following areas of significance: with the  PwC audit team, following the auditor retender process undertaken in the previous year.
Contract revenue and provisions: in conjunction with the annual audit, the Committee reviewed a paper setting out Audit Committee: composition and attendance key judgments in respect of revenue recognition and contract Membership of the Audit Committee is detailed on pages 38, 39 provisions, in relation to individually significant long-term and 42.
The Chairman Executive Chairman, Chief Executive and construction contracts.
Finance Director attend all Committee meetings by invitation.
Going concern: the Committee assessed the available bank Andrew Jenner, who is Committee Chair, has a strong financial facilities, and the associated covenants and sensitivities.
The background which satisfies the UK Corporate Governance Code related paper also considered other commercial and economic requirement that the Committees membership has recent and risks to the Groups going concern status.
The Committee relevant financial experience.
The General Counsel and Company reported to the Board on its findings.
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Goodwill impairment review: during the year, the Committee considered the judgments made in relation to the valuation Audit Committee: remit methodology adopted by management and the model input The Committee meets at least three times a year, this number used, as well as the sensitivities used by management and the being deemed appropriate to the Audit Committees role and related disclosures.
The Committees delegated authorities and Miller Construction acquisition accounting treatment, including calendar of prioritised work have not changed substantially fair value adjustments, recognition of intangible assets and from those disclosed in previous years.
The key responsibilities goodwill, exceptional items and related disclosures.
of the Committee are: delegated responsibility from the Board Disclosure of significant transactions.
for financial reporting: monitoring external audit, internal audit, risk and controls: and reviewing instances of whistleblowing.
Calendar of 2014 15 Committee The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the activities and areas of focus Groupswebsite.
Month Activity or area of focus The authorities and calendar of work remain in line with the September 2014 Committee review of 20132014 full year results, requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At each including external auditor presentation, going concern review and approval of fair, balanced meeting, Committee members take time, in the absence of the andunderstandable process executive directors, to review separately and discuss any issues Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports meriting their attention.
The adjacent table summarises the key Review of auditor independence and provision activities during the financial year.
ofnon-audit services February 2015 Committee review of 20142015 half year results, The Committee also continues to meet with the internal and including external auditor presentation, going external audit teams, without executive management present.
concern review and approval of fair, balanced andunderstandable process External audit engagement review During the financial year, the risk and internal audit team focused Review of revised UK Corporate Governance on delivering its agreed calendar of audit reviews, under its rolling Codeand viability statement requirements three-year internal audit plan, and also on providing commercial Initial review of IFRS 15 revenue recognition, and risk management support across the Group at the request Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports of the Committee, the Executive Board and senior management.
May 2015 Approval of 2015 external and internal audit plans Further information regarding its activities during the year can Early stage review of Strategic Report and befound opposite.
relateddisclosures Further discussion on UK Corporate Governance Code changes and IFRS 15 As disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, no significant Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports non-audit related services were provided by the incumbent external auditor, PwC during the financial year, although the Group did receive non-audit-related advice and services covering general corporate matters.
Policies and review mechanisms governing the provision of material non-audit services, and safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, remained in force throughout the financial year.
The Committee is satisfied that PwC is fully independent and accordingly has recommended to the Board thataresolution to re-appoint PwC is proposed at the 2015 AGM.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials 45 Working closely with the Executive Chairman, the Committee took direct responsibility for the processes which led to the appointment of Peter Ventress, Peter Truscott and Gavin Slark as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive and Non-executive Director, respectively.
The Committee prepared detailed job specifications and external consultants were appointed to provide advice on the availability of suitable external candidates.
The Committee then commenced a formal, rigorous and transparent selection process, which included considering and interviewing a diverse shortlist of candidates, before recommending the final appointments totheBoard.
In addition, the Committee took responsibility for determining and recommending to the Board Greg Fitzgeralds role as Non-executive Chairman from 1 January 2016 to the 2017 AGM, when it is anticipated Peter Ventress will become Chairman.
Further background to all appointments, together with the Boards Introduction: Terry Miller agreed position on diversity in accordance with the requirements Nomination Committee Chair of the UK Corporate Governance Code, can be found on pages40and41.
Working closely with the Executive In accordance with best practice and the latest guidance issued by Chairman, the Committee took direct the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, the new non-executive directors received a formal and thorough induction responsibility for the new executive programme including: Board policies and procedures: share and non-executive appointments.
dealing restrictions: financial, strategic and operational summaries: governance processes: meetings with senior management and advisors: and other Group-specific information and training.
Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee: composition and attendance The Committee continues to review both Board composition Membership of the Nomination Committee is detailed on pages and progress made by potential internal candidates as part of 38, 39 and 42.
The Committee was chaired by Peter Rogers to succession planning for key executive roles.
The Committee 16September 2014, Ian Coull to 21 October 2014 and Terry Miller Chair also participated in the recruitment of Bill Hocking the for the remainder of the year.
The General Counsel and Company new Managing Director of the Construction division, whose Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
appointmentwas announced during the year.
Nomination Committee: remit The Committee remains comprised wholly of independent The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the non-executive directors, exceeding the requirements of provision Groups website.
The authorities delegated to the Committee B.
2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
External consultants bythe Board comprise: The Zygos Partnership Zygos and Norman Broadbent plc NormanBroadbent advised on all prospective Board appointments, reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board: including the appropriateness of open advertising and other evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience recruitment methodologies.
There is no other connection between onthe Board, including the impact of new appointments: Zygos and the Group or Norman Broadbent and the Group.
overseeing and recommending the recruitment of any newdirectors: ensuring appointments are appropriately made against objective criteria: and keeping the leadership and succession requirements of the Group under active review.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 46 Governance continued Reporting, risk, internal audit and controls Remuneration Committee Report 2015 The governance review commencing on page 41 details the Remuneration Committee: composition and attendance specific actions undertaken by the Group during the financial Membership of the Remuneration Committee is detailed on pages year, including those with a risk management focus.
The Committee was chaired by Amanda Burton approach to risk and internal audit, including its systems in relation until she stepped down from the Board on 16 September 2014, to the preparation of consolidated accounts, and the material and by Ishbel Macpherson thereafter.
controls of the Groups established internal control framework have not changed substantially from those disclosed in detail Remuneration Committee: remit inthe 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The authorities delegated to the Committee by the Board have not materially changed from those disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report The Groups governance reporting structure shown opposite and Financial Statements.
Further information regarding the work of clarifies the effective Group, divisional and operational board the Committee during the financial year can be found in the Directors structures upon which the delegated authorities matrices and Remuneration Report on page 53, and, in respect of the Committees Corporate and Finance Manuals are overlaid, and reflects involvement in the formulation of the Groups Remuneration Policy, in changesmade in 2014. the Directors Remuneration Policy Report on pages 52 to 63 of the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
During the financial year, the Group undertook a substantial external compliance review of its policies and procedures in Other governance matters respect of its commercial operations and major projects.
The The Group continues to operate a suite of governance and risk directors are pleased with the overall level of compliance found management policies, procedures and training programmes, all and are in the process of implementing the recommendations.
of which address obligations arising under the relevant legislation.
A separate programme of 14 internal audits was also completed The Group Corporate and Finance Manuals, which summarise the across the Groups operations and three progress checks were policies, procedures and authority matrices by which the central completed against previous recommendations.
functions and divisions operate, were refreshed and updated during the financial year.
There were no significant internal control failings or weaknesses during the year.
Any matters of non-compliance with the provisions Shareholder relations of the Group Corporate and Finance Manuals have been rectified The Company continues to prioritise maintaining effective either during the financial year or by the date ofthisAnnual Report.
relationships with all its shareholders and seeks to engage with interested parties.
The Board, and in particular the Executive Compliance statement Chairman and Finance Director, continue to organise meetings The Group believes that the highest standards of corporate with existing and prospective institutional shareholders.
Specific governance are integral to the delivery of its strategy, enabling reports regarding shareholder views are provided to the Board for the means by which the Board may manage the expectations analysis and discussion.
The Board continues to engage actively ofstakeholders to optimise sustainable performance.
with institutional shareholders in line with the UK Stewardship Code, whether on key matters of specific relevance to the Group The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code, applicable and its operations or general market themes.
The Board, the to all premium listed companies with reporting periods that Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors, began before 1 October 2014, is the governance code to which are available to attend meetings with shareholders and address the Group is subject.
The Group remains compliant with the any significant concerns stakeholders may have.
UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
6 andrelated information can be found in the Directors 2014 was the first year the Group distributed documents such Reportonpages 62 to 64. as the Annual Report and Financial Statements to shareholders electronically rather than by post.
This method of document As a member of the FTSE 250, Galliford Try has committed to delivery has been well received by shareholders, with few complying with the provisions of the Code and, in doing so, seeks requeststo revert to hard copy mailings.
both to support and foster the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Group has fully complied with the requirements The Groups AGM, held in November each year, continues to of the Code, with the exception of provisions A.
2.1 as regards be a popular means for private shareholders to receive updates combining temporarily the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive on Group performance, including presentations from Board and A.
3.1 independence of Chairman on appointment.
In these members and opinions on progress.
All directors of the Company areas of non-compliance, the directors recognise that the situation were in attendance at the 2014 AGM, with the exception of is for a specific and limited time period, and consider that this Ishbel Macpherson, who was unable to attend due to a family temporary deviation from full compliance with the Code is in the bereavement.
All arrangements for the meeting including notice best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
period and voting arrangements followed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and related best practice.
The For and on behalf of the Board Board was delighted to welcome, at their request, representatives from Marstons plc as observers of the poll voting procedure.
Kevin Corbett General Counsel and Company Secretary Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials 47 Group governance reporting structure 2015 plc Board Directors: 8 Meetings annually: 8 Remuneration Executive Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Committee Directors: 5 Directors: 5 Directors: 5 Directors: 5 Meetings annually: 12 Meetings annually: 3 Meetings annually: 4 Meetings annually: 4 Linden Homes Galliford Try Partnerships Construction and Investments Executive Board Executive Board Divisional Board Directors: 7 Directors: 9 Directors: 8 Meetings annually: 10 Meetings annually: 10 Meetings annually: 12 Galliford Try Partnerships Building North Risk Committee Divisional Board & Scotland Board Members: 14 Directors: 11 Directors: 8 Meetings annually: 4 Meetings annually: 8 Meetings annually: 8 Building Midlands Other Group and & South Board functional Directors: 6 committees Meetings annually: 8 and forums Infrastructure Board Directors: 7 Meetings annually: 8 Investments Board Directors: 6 Meetings annually: 8 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
