Corporate governance Audit Committee report report continued management processes and systems: of the groups external auditor.
The THE AUDIT COMMITTEE health and safety: and people.
In chairman of the board and the chief addition, the growth strategy risk executive also attend meetings from was addressed as part of the board time to time in agreement with the strategy sessions in October.
Further chairman of the committee.
At the details of the significant risks and end of each meeting, a private session uncertainties facing the business is held by the Audit Committee are set out on pages 48 to 54. with representatives of the groups external auditor without members Contract risk management of the executive management team remains a key area of focus for being present.
the committee which undertakes a review of a major contract at each After each meeting, the chairman of its meetings.
The Risk Committee of the committee reports to the also considered proposed bids board on the matters which have Tim Weller for contracts that required board been discussed.
Audit Committee Chairman approval due to their size or level ofrisks, leading to a thorough Main activities of the Audit assessment of the risks associated Committee during the year % In 2015, the Audit Committee focused with the proposed transactions.
on monitoring the effectiveness of Committee performance the groups internal risk and control The assessment of the committees environment and on ensuring that performance in 2015 showed matters of judgement were subject to that the committee continued to operate effectively with the rigorous review.
The Audit Committee chairmans leadership remaining also oversaw the transition of the highly rated.
It was also reported groups external audit to the new that the committee was effective in providing oversight of the controls auditor,  LLP.
in place in respect of significant risks.
Their appointment was confirmed by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Priorities for 2016 Effectiveness of financial controls and In 2016, the Risk Committee will risk management procedures 35% continue to drive greater alignment External audit and non-audit services 15% of the risk management policies and Committee membership and attendance procedures with group strategy and Financial reporting 25% Meetings support the further embedding of scheduled Whistleblowing fraud risk in strategic planning.
Ensuring clear allegations 10% Tim Weller Chairman 4 of 4 accountability for risk management Internal audit 10% Adam Crozier 4 of 4 across the business line will also Transition to new auditor 5% John Daly 2 of 2 be an area of significant focus.
Paul Spence 4 of 4 Responsibilities John Daly joined the board and the Audit Committee The committee makes sure there is in June 2015. effective governance of the groups financial reporting and internal controls to ensure the integrity of The committee members were its financial statements and adequacy selected for their range of commercial of related disclosures and assists the and financial expertise, necessary to board in relation to its consideration fulfil the committees responsibilities.
of whether or not the annual report Each member of the Audit of the group is fair, balanced and Committee brings significant and understandable.
The committee also relevant experience gained at senior has oversight of the performance of management level.
Their skills and both the internal audit function and experience are set out on pages the external auditor.
The Audit Committees can be found in the committees chairman, Tim Weller, is considered terms of reference available at by the board to be the member of www.
com investors the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee has an annual agenda which includes standing items that Audit Committee meetings are the committee considers regularly, attended by the chief financial officer, as well as specific matters that the group financial controller, the require the committees attention.
company secretary, the group director of risk and audit and representatives 68 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee The primary issues considered by the committee in the 2015 financial statements, and how these were addressed, were: ONEROUS CONTRACT PROVISIONS financial officer on a quarterly basis summarising the conclusions from Description of the top 25 contracts and those the 360 degree contract review.
The group delivers certain with low profitability for each region, long-term outsourcing services In addition, the committee reviewed and the 360 degree contract review that are complex in nature.
Some and challenged in respect of each of those contracts may become loss on the largest and most complex onerous contract and in particular contracts, covering financial, legal, making and lead to a position where the Compass and legacy UK future net unavoidable losses over reputational and operational risk government contracts, the criteria, attended by a group their life are expected.
This requires underpinning assumptions provided determining the net present value executive committee member.
by management and inquired of future estimated losses to calculate Details of the outcome of the about the judgements made, the an onerous contract provision.
The assessment of contract provisions robustness of the assumptions, identification and measurement are set out in the Chief Financial the sensitivities to changes in the of any related provision requires Officers review on pages 96 assumptions and the disclosure significant judgement, given the to 105. provided in relation to the key often extended time periods material judgements.
involved, and the number of Action taken variables that are not all within The Audit Committee reviewed Conclusion managements control.
the quarterly report summarising The Audit Committee was During the year, management the results of the top 25 contracts satisfied that the provisions and operated the enhanced processes and those with low profitability.
The disclosure as at 31 December and controls introduced in 2014, committee also reviewed a report 2015 were appropriate.
including a review by the chief GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING year end was 1.828bn see note reviewed the recoverable value Description 18 to the consolidated financial on the basis of expected sale price The total value of the groups statements.
Details of the groups less costs to sell, whereas for those goodwill as at 31 December 2015 goodwill judgements, impairment portfolio businesses that are expected was 1.828bn and relates to a test and related disclosures are to be closed, goodwill was fully significant number of historical provided in notes 4 and 18. impaired and the recoverable acquisitions.
value of the assets was considered.
The estimation of the recoverable Action taken amount of goodwill supported The Audit Committee finally The Audit Committee reviewed considered the adequacy of the by the groups cash generating the methodology and challenged units requires significant judgement, disclosures provided, particularly the results of the impairment for the case of cash generating units primarily in relation to the achievability test prepared by management.
of long-term business plans and where changes in key assumptions could give rise to an impairment.
future cash flows which is dependent The Audit Committee reviewed on circumstances both within and the assumptions used in relation outside of managements control, to long-term growth, resulting Conclusion in relation to the discount rates headroom and sensitivities applied The committee was satisfied with adjusted to reflect risks specific to by management.
In addition, these the carrying value of goodwill individual assets used and in relation results were considered against and related disclosures as at to the macro-economic assumptions alternative valuation bases such 31 December 2015. and related modelling assumptions as reference to aquisitions or underlying the valuation process.
As a result of the annual review of For those businesses that are the carrying value of goodwill, 66m expected to be sold as part of goodwill was impaired.
The balance the strategic portfolio management remaining at the 2015 financial programme, the Audit Committee Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 69 Audit Committee report continued TAXATION in respect of the Olympics and The committee reviewed Description The group operates in around 100 Electronic Monitoring contracts information prepared by as well as from trading losses from management supporting the countries and is therefore subject to numerous tax inspections in the onerous contracts.
At 31 December recoverability of deferred tax 2015, total deferred tax assets were assets and considered the period ordinary course of business.
In some instances these may result in claims 187m 2014: 192m.
Recognising of time over which these would such assets requires an assessment be recovered and made enquiries being raised by tax authorities.
In many of the jurisdictions in which of their likely utilisation recovery of the external auditors on the which includes an assessment of the appropriateness of the groups the group operates, tax legislation is not always applied consistently.
taxable profits expected to be made tax position.
in each of the relevant jurisdictions.
Any claims are handled by the local The committee considered the legal entity in the first instance.
More groups enhanced disclosures complex cases are reviewed by the Action taken recognising that the Financial group tax function and provisions, The Audit Committee reviewed Reporting Council has been where necessary, are made based on the groups approach to taxation undertaking a thematic review the best estimate of the likely outcome.
and approved the adoption of a in this area.
tax policy which complies with the The group recognises deferred CBIs seven tax principles for the UK.
tax assets in respect of temporary Conclusion timing differences mainly in relation The committee also reviewed The committee was satisfied to pension arrangements, fixed information prepared by management with the groups approach to tax, assets and carried forward losses.
in relation to existing or potential and with the recoverability of the These losses arose largely as a tax exposures, the adequacy of the deferred tax assets and disclosure result of settlements with the UK provisions recorded and their in respect of tax exposures.
Government in 2013 and 2014 treatment and disclosure in the financial statements.
RISK OF ACCOUNTING ERRORS AND MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS revenue recognition and lease The committee also reviewed Description progress made on reducing reliance The group operates in around 100 accounting practices in Denmark, to the integrity of historical accounting on manual controls by developing countries and has over 700 legal and integrating finance and entities with a significant number of records in the Africa regionand acquisitions and disposals accounting operational systems across the local financial systems and processes.
In addition, the committee This leads to an inherently diverse in North America dating back to the period 2007 to 2014 which received regular updates on the set of processes and controls that implementation of different financial rely on local capabilities to implement are further described on page 72.
These corrections do not affect the control processes including internal and operate the controls.
As set out audit plans and results, the on page 47, the group has adopted future cash generation of the group.
simplification of the controls a three lines of defence model to Management performed extensive framework, training and up-skilling control and manage risks across work and concluded that these of capabilities across the group, as the group.
represented material errors well as the regular reports from the The group has continued to rather than changes in estimates.
Management discussed the nature make significant investment in strengthening capability in finance, of these errors with each regional In respect of the prior year finance director to assess whether restatements, the committee internal audit and risk management, and has introduced stronger internal similar errors might have been made reviewed in detail papers prepared elsewhere in the group, to ensure by management explaining the controls and group oversight to mitigate these risks.
These include learnings and corrective actions were issues identified as well as the shared and to ensure the right focus corrective action put in place to monthly reviews of the quality of earnings, a comprehensive internal on the relevant controls is applied.
prevent re-occurrence of such errors.
The committee discussed audit plan and a regular cycle of reviews of local business units or these issues with representatives Action taken of the external auditor to satisfy country balance sheets and controls.
The committee reviewed the overall The appointment of a new external themselves that the adjustments control environment of the group, were material errors rather than auditor has also provided a fresh and monitored progress against the perspective on the state of the changes in estimate and to assess approved group internal audit plan the appropriateness of the control environment.
for the year, the different financial subsequent actions taken by control and balance sheet review During the year, material errors were management to provide assurance processes and the output of the identified in relation to prior years.
that there were not similar errors whistleblowing process.
These were related to historical elsewhere across the group.
70 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance RISK OF ACCOUNTING ERRORS AND MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS CONTINUED had shared the learnings across the to reduce the reliance on manual Conclusion The committee was satisfied finance leadership team and that controls across the group.
the relevant controls are being Notwithstanding the significant that the prior year errors were sufficiently material to require a strengthened to mitigate against control weaknesses that allowed the recurrence of similar errors.
these errors to occur, the restatement of comparative financial information in the consolidated The committee also acknowledged committee was satisfied that the the progress made in relation to the groups risk management and financial statements.
The committee noted the root cause of the errors strengthening of the controls across internal control processes and the group and the plans in place to procedures are appropriate.
and confirmed that management reduce the number of systems and PORTFOLIO RATIONALISATION PROGRAMME Description Management classifies these entities 2013 and considered whether within assets held for sale when it is the businesses that management The group has continued to make progress in its portfolio management expected that the carrying amount had identified for sale or closure of these entities will be recovered were in line with the strategy.
programme announced in 2013, identifying operations in a further 38 principally through a sale transaction in the next 12 months.
businesses or countries to be sold Conclusion or ceased.
Given that the size of the The committee was satisfied that During 2015, 10 businesses related operations in these businesses or the adjusted performance measures to the portfolio management countries is individually not significant were both consistent with the prior programme were sold or closed.
for the group, they do not meet the year and presented in a balanced way In the first two months of 2016, definition under IFRS 5 to be and that the information provided for a further five businesses have classified as discontinued operations.
stakeholders to reconcile adjusted been sold.
Management presents them separately performance measures to IFRS in the adjusted performance results was appropriate.
Action taken measures in the preliminary results The committee reviewed progress announcement and in the Chief made on the portfolio management Executive Officers review and programme against the groups provides a detailed reconciliation strategy announced in November to the IFRS financial statements.
GOING CONCERN AND LIQUIDITY RISK Description assertion has a significant impact and that in early 2015 the group on the financial statements in terms had renewed its revolving credit The group has net debt of 1,782m.
The groups business plan supports a of both the valuation of assets and finance facility for six years.
liabilities held and the presentation net debt to EBITDA of 2.5 times or The committee also reviewed of assets and liabilities as nonlower over the next 12-24 months.
compliance with covenants, the current.
The Audit Committee The group is subject to financial availability of headroom in relation has taken due consideration of to those covenants, reasonable covenants related to its committed the guidance issued by the Financial bank facilities and the private loan downside scenarios considering Reporting Council Going Concern the risk profile of the group, both notes are subject to one financial and Liquidity Risk guidance for covenant based on net debt to for going concern purposes and in Directors of UK Companies 2009. the context of the three year viability EBITDA ratio, where net debt to EBITDA should be lower than statement included on page 46.
Non-compliance with The committee reviewed the the covenant could lead to an Conclusion groups forecasts of cash flow acceleration of debt maturities.
The committee was satisfied that and net debt, taking into account it was appropriate for the group Consideration of the going concern reasonable risk sensitivities as well to adopt the going concern basis risk is a fundamental responsibility as the financing facilities available to of accounting in the financial of the boardand the Audit the group: noting that no significant statements and recommended Committee has given this matter bonds or placements were due to the same to the board.
The going concern mature within the next 12 months Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 71 Audit Committee report continued SPECIFIC ITEMS accounting policies that were being The committee also requested Description The Audit Committee reviewed applied consistently from year to information from management to year and that these items included satisfy itself that changes in estimates the treatment of items considered as specific items that are separately both debits and credits in a related to items that were classified balanced manner.
as specific items were consistently disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Management treated for both increases and The Audit Committee also decreases provisions.
prepared documentation to support considered the recognition in the these items and the disclosure current year of future unavoidable proposed in the financial statements.
Conclusion losses related to onerous contracts The committee was satisfied that as specific items and determined Action taken the groups accounting policies that onerous contract provisions have been applied consistently The Audit Committee reviewed would only be classified as specific and challenged, in light of the and that the designation of specific items if they were deemed to be items was subject to objective and guidance issued by the Financial material to the groups underlying Reporting Council in December balanced criteria and was appropriate performance.
The Audit Committee to give an improved understanding 2013, the disclosures prepared by set a threshold amount below management in relation to specific of the continuing operations of which onerous contracts would the group.
items, considered that the nature not be classified as specific items.
of these items was within the groups is to perform an annual review to and to certain leases being Internal control consider whether these internal classified as operating rather In the last three years, under the controls remain effective.
The than as finance leases: leadership of the chief financial committee does this primarily officer, the group has had a A number of legacy control through receiving reports from heightened focus on improving weaknesses identified in the management, the internal audit systems of internal control and risk Africa region led management function and the external auditor.
to perform a full review of the The main features of these control balance sheet in all countries of During the year, significant progress systems include clearly defined the region from which prior year was made in continuing to strengthen reporting lines and authorisation errors were identified, mainly the capabilities in finance, internal relating to cash reconciliations, procedures, a comprehensive audit and risk management and to budgeting and monthly reporting under-accrual of employee and improve insight into the financial customer-related liabilities, incorrect system, written policies and performance of business units classification of finance leases as procedures and the use of a single at a country level.
These insights operating leases and expenses global consolidation system for both identified significant failings in incorrectly capitalised: and internal management reporting, controls related to material budgeting and planning as well A number of errors in respect accounting errors in three areas as external reporting.
The group of the calculation of goodwill that have led to the restatement budget is approved by the board.
on certain acquisitions, gains and of the 2014 financial statements: A regular update is provided by the losses on certain disposals and The revenue recognition policy group CFO on the outlook.
Actual related tax balances in North previously applied in respect America between 2007 and 2014 results at business unit, region and of the supply and installation of mainly resulting in goodwill being group level are reported monthly alarm systems in Europe, together overstated as at 1 January 2014 and variances reviewed.
A programme with the underlying assumptions and at 31 December 2014 and of business internal financial reviews used in 2007 at inception of profit on disposals in 2014 IFRs is performed by the finance certain related sale and leaseback being understated.
team from either region or group transactions entered into until 2013, to check the accuracy of financial were incorrect.
These led to the The committee reviewed in detail reporting and compliance with incorrect timing of recognition papers prepared by management the group finance manual.
of profit on installation of those explaining the issues identified as The system is designed to ensure alarm systems with upfront gains well as the corrective action put in being recognised instead of being the integrity of financial reporting place to prevent re-occurrence of and the committees responsibility deferred over the life of the lease such errors which included sharing 72 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance the findings with the group finance the internal audit team will spend by PwC are deemed insignificant leadership team and cascading it a minimum of 20% of their time both individually and in aggregate down to business level, confirming providing coaching and consulting and were either terminated or that these issues were not repeated transitioned to other providers by to business units with control in other locations, putting in tighter issues in order to seek to prevent 30 June 2015.
A specific exception controls and group review when was made for certain insignificant recurrence of control failures.
entering into material new leases, pre-existing services where providing master classes and transition presented significant External auditor updates on the group finance business risks or difficulties and In the summer of 2014, the manual as well as integrating further a final termination date of 30 company put the external audit the operations of the group tax June 2016 was established for engagement for the 2015 financial department with the local tax these services.
In relation to the resulted in the appointment of The provision of any non-audit broader failure of financial controls  LLP services by the audit firm must, and reconciliations in the Africa PwC as the groups external in any event, comply with the region, the Audit Committee auditor for the 2015 financial year requirements in that regard of observed that this had been at the companys AGM on 4 June the Auditing Practices Board.
A tri-partite transition plan of the financial controls and Details of the fees paid for audit setting out the agreed principles, organisation through specific actions services, audit-related services and framework and timeline to ensure such as the appointment of a new non-audit services can be found in the efficient and effective transfer of regional finance director, a new note 10 to the financial statements.
the external audit arrangement from regional financial controller, and the previous group auditor KPMG 12 new finance directors during Effectiveness of the external Audit plc to PwC was put into place.
2015, as well as from a fresh review auditor from the new external auditors.
A combination of formal and Non-audit services informal processes are used in the To ensure that the independence The committee acknowledged the assessment of the effectiveness of of the audit is not compromised, the strengthening of the controls and the external audit process.
A formal committee has put a policy in place the 2016 plans which include a questionnaire is completed at the for the non-audit services that can be targeted group internal audit plan end of the audit by members of provided by the external auditor, the for the areas where significant the Audit Committee, group finance relevant approval process for certain failures have taken place, a review department and the finance directors of the groups financial control services and those services the of significant operations across the auditor is prohibited from providing.
framework with a view to simplifying group and the output is reviewed it to key essential controls to ensure In essence, the external auditor is by the Audit Committee.
The prohibited from providing services these operate effectively, training assessment of the external programmes and up-skilling that could create a conflict of audit concluded that it remained interest, result in the audit firm capabilities.
The committee also effective and the external auditor considered the plans that are being auditing its own work or result in is independent.
implemented by management to the performance of management reduce reliance on manual controls, functions.
The committee has Committee performance mainly in respect to implementation pre-approved certain services which The assessment of the committees and integration of new financial can be provided by the auditor performance conducted as part systems over the longer term.
subject to specified fee limits above of the board review process with which further approval is required.
Further details on internal controls Lintstocks assistance showed that All other services would require are set out on page 47.
The Audit the committee remains effective at prior approval by the committee.
Committee confirmed to the board discharging its responsibilities and Every year the Audit Committee that it is satisfied that the groups in particular in reviewing the quality reviews its policy on the provision risk management and internal of the groups financial reporting.
of non-audit services by the control processes and procedures external auditor.
CMA Order Compliance Non-audit services include tax The committee confirms that the compliance and tax services.
The Internal audit company has complied with the During 2015 the group internal Audit Committee has reconsidered Audit Services for Large Companies the companys policy in this area in audit team focused on taking Mandatory Use of Competitive a more risk based approach to the context of the new EU guidance Tender Processes and Audit on non-audit services.
Whilst PwC auditing, with the goal of focusing Committee Responsibilities local management on the most do provide such services the vast Order 2004. material control issues given their majority of tax compliance and specific local environment.
In 2016 tax advisory services undertaken Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 73
