Adam Crozier Non-executive director Non-executive director Chairman of the board Appointed January 2013 Appointed June 2012 Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Wide-ranging experience of Developing the board and its business transformation in a governance of the group.
Extensive number of public and private sector experience of working in a global organisations in the media, logistics business environment and in sectors and retail sectors and a serving of strategic importance to the group.
1 2 A chartered accountant, John spent Started his career with Mars before his career until May 2011 with global joining the Daily Telegraph followed professional services firm Deloitte, by Saatchi and Saatchi, where he was Global Chairman between became joint chief executive.
He 2007 and 2011, and prior to that then became chief executive of the Global Managing Director between Football Association and was 2003 and 2007.
He was Senior subsequently appointed chief Partner and CEO of the UK executive of the Royal Mail Group, partnership from 1999 until where he oversaw an extensive his retirement from the firm.
programme of modernisation and change to enable the business to Current external commitments: compete in the UK and international Chairman of Amec Foster Wheeler marketplaces.
Since April 2010 he 3 4 plc and director of a number of has been chief executive of ITV plc.
Will retire from the board at the Beyond commercial business roles, conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
he is the chairman of the Great Current external commitments: Ormond Street Hospital Charity Chief executive of ITV plc.
Ashley Almanza Executive director Chief executive Appointed June 2015 Key strengths and experience: Appointed May 2013 After an early career in sales and 5 6 Key strengths and experience: marketing with Schering-Plough, Extensive board and executive Pennwalt Corporation, Bristol-Myers management experience and Pharmaceuticals and Johnson & strong track record working across Johnson, joined British American international borders in complex Tobacco BAT in 1994.
Held a number of senior executive leadership positions at executive roles at BG Group from BAT over the course of 20 years in 1993 to 2012, including Chief Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
Financial Officer from 2002 to 2011 Most recent positions at BAT were and Executive Vice President from Chief Operating Officer from 2010 2009 to 2012.
As Executive Vice to 2014 and Regional Director for President he was accountable Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong during 2009 and 2010 for BG from 2004 to 2010.
Groups UK, European and 7 8 Central Asian businesses.
Current external commitments: Non-executive director of Wolseley He holds an MBA from London plc and Britvic plc.
Mark Elliott Non-executive director of Schroders Non-executive director Senior plc and Noble Corporation.
Board independent director member of the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance.
He Appointed September 2006 retires from the board of Schroders Key strengths and experience: on 28 April 2016.
Extensive international board and executive experience having held a number of senior management 9 10 positions at IBM, including leadership 56 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance of IBMs operations in Europe, Himanshu worked for more than 9.
Clare Spottiswoode 10 years at BT Group in a number the Middle East and Africa with Non-executive director responsibility for operations in of divisional finance director roles including Chief Financial Officer more than 110 countries.
General Appointed June 2010 Manager IBM Global Solutions: of BT Global Services, BT Design, BT Operate and BT Wholesale.
Managing Director of IBM Europe, Key strengths and experience: Middle East and Africa: member His early career included finance Considerable experience in the and systems roles at Worldcom of the board of IBAX, a hospital public sector, the energy markets software company jointly owned International, UUNET and MFS.
and the financial services sector as by IBM and Baxter Healthcare: well as setting up and managing her Himanshu is a qualified chartered formerly chairman of Reed Elseviers own businesses.
A mathematician accountant and holds an honours remuneration committee.
Will retire and economist by training, worked degree in law.
from the board at the conclusion for the UK Treasury, director general Current external commitments: of the 2016 AGM.
of Ofgas, the UK gas regulator: None policyholder advocate for Norwich Current external commitments: Unions with-profits policyholders Non-executive chairman of at Aviva and a member of the 8.
Paul Spence QinetiQ Group plc and chairman Independent Commission on Non-executive director of Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited.
Banking and the Future of Banking Commission.
Winnie Kin Wah Fok Non-executive director Current external commitments: Key strengths and experience: Chairman of Flow Group plc: In-depth knowledge of outsourcing non-executive director of Ilika plc, in both the public and private Appointed October 2010 Enquest plc, Partnership Assurance sectors and extensive international Key strengths and experience: Group plc and BW Offshore experience in key developing International board and senior Limited as well as being a director countries such as India, China and management experience with of a number of private companies.
A graduate of the Wharton extensive knowledge of Asian Clare will stand down from the School at the University of markets and strong involvement board of Enquest plc in June 2016.
Pennsylvania with a degree in in Scandinavia.
economics and decision sciences: An auditor by training, was involved served a 30-year career with 10.
Tim Weller in management positions in finance, Capgemini and its predecessors.
Non-executive director audit and corporate advisory work Having started in the US and and a wide range of roles in asset become managing partner of Appointed April 2013 management firms investing with a mid-Atlantic information and Key strengths and experience: focus in Asia.
Senior partner of EQT technology for Ernst & Young, Significant experience of the energy and CEO of EQT Partners Asia he went on to gain significant and utilities sectors and serving Limited: managing director of CEF international experience for 16 FTSE 250 CFO.
An accountant by New Asia Partners Limited.
years as managing partner of Ernst training, joined KPMG in 1985, rising & Young Consulting Australia, CEO Current external commitments: to partnership in 1997 before of Capgemini Ernst & Young in Asia Senior advisor to Wallenberg joining Granada plc as director and CEO Capgemini Ernst & Young Foundations AB: non-executive of financial control.
He then spent eight years director of Volvo Car Corporation: and 2010, he gained significant serving on Capgeminis executive SEB AB, and Kemira Oyj and an further experience in the energy management committee during investment committee member and utilities sectors holding CFO which time his roles included deputy for the HOPU Investment Fund.
positions with Innogy one of the group CEO and CEO of Capgemini UKs leading integrated energy Global Outsourcing Services.
Himanshu Raja companies at the time, RWE Current external commitments: Executive director Thames Water the worlds third Non-executive director of Actual Chief financial officer largest water and wastewater Experience plc.
service company and United Utilities Group PLC a UK-based Appointed October 2013 water and wastewater service Key strengths and experience: company.
He was Chief Financial Strong track record as a financial Officer of Cable & Wireless executive in global services businesses.
As well as having responsibility for Key to committee all core finance functions including membership Current external commitments: tax, audit, treasury and investor CFO of Petrofac Limited, the Nomination relations, Himanshu oversees IT international oil and gas service and procurement for G4S globally.
CSR provider and a non-executive Risk director of the Carbon Trust.
Prior to joining G4S, Himanshu was CFO at Misys, and from 2010 to Audit 2012 he was CFO of Logica plc.
Remuneration Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 57
