60 Audit Committee Report ENSURING THE COMPANYS FINANCIAL REPORTING INTEGRITY In keeping with best practice we decided to tender the external audit for fiscal year 2016.
The Committee was actively involved in the tender process and provided oversight and directions as thework progressed.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 61 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Dear Shareholder The Audit Committee Committee acts on behalf of the Board and shareholders, to ensure the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, evaluate its system of risk management and internal control, and oversee the performance of the internal and external auditors.
We design our annual work programme to deliver these commitments.
The membership of the Committee changed during the year, with the retirement of Professor Barry Furr and the appointment of Professor Duncan Maskell and Lykele van der Broek.
I am happy to report that the Committee membership not only continues to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code and related guidance, with all members being Non-Executive Directors, but also to maintain a sound range of financial, commercial and scientific expertise required to fulfil its role effectively.
More details on this, and the appointment and induction process for new members, is in the corporate governance section of this Annual Report.
During the year, I chaired five Committee meetings and invited the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Risk Management and Internal Audit, and senior representatives of the external auditor to attend these meetings.
The Committee members and I also held separate private sessions during the year with the Head of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the external audit partner.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the half-year and annual financial statements.
Among other matters, we focused on critical accounting policies, key assumptions and judgements, the quality of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting standards and all material issues affecting the financial statements.
I am comfortable that the Committee fully discussed all critical policies and key assumptions and judgements.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the Groups tax and treasury strategy and its pension arrangements.
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, to ensure they are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys strategy, business model and performance.
In meeting its commitment to oversee the performance of our internal and external auditor, the Committee reviewed and agreed internal audits terms of reference and workplans, as well as the scope, fees and work undertaken by the external auditor.
TheCommittee received the results of the management feedback on the external auditprocess and reviewed the effectiveness of internal and external audit, discussed theoutcomes of these assessments and agreed any actions that were needed.
The Committee was satisfied with the performance of the internal audit function and theexternal auditor during the year.
As I reported last year, in keeping with best practice we decided to tender the external audit for fiscal year 2016, as it has been ten years since the last tender.
I chaired a special meeting of the Committee to consider the proposals presented by the two shortlisted audit firms.
After careful consideration, theCommittee recommended the award of external audit services to Deloitte LLP, with a new lead audit partner.
Mike Buzzacott Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 September 2015 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 62 Audit Committee Report continued Committee Composition and Our annual review of these terms took external auditor, including any Governance place during the year.
The Committee non-audit services it provides to The Committees members are also assessed its own effectiveness, the Group.
The Committee also Non-Executive Directors with a through a structured questionnaire, ensures that the Company maintains wide range of financial, commercial and concluded that it was effective.
suitable confidential arrangements and scientific research expertise, for employees to raise concerns and appropriate for fulfilling the Committee Role and Responsibilities reviews the Companys systems and Committees duties.
In FY15, the The Committees role and controls for preventing bribery.
Committee met the UK Corporate responsibilities include reviewing Governance Codes requirement and monitoring: the financial The Committee reports its findings that at least one Committee reporting process: the integrity of to the Board, identifying any matters member should have recent and the Groups financial statements: that require action or improvement, relevant financial experience.
the Companys reporting to and making recommendations shareholders: the effectiveness of about the steps to be taken.
The Committee has formal terms of the Groups accounting systems reference, approved by the Board, and control environment, including that comply with the UK Corporate risk management and the internal Governance Code.
These are available audit function: and the effectiveness from our website: www.
and independence of the Groups The Committees Main Activities During the Year At its five meetings during the year, the Committee focused on: Financial Reporting The main areas of focus and matters where the Committee specifically considered managements judgements are set out below: Financial reporting area Judgement and assumptions considered Biological assets valuation In compliance with IAS 41, Genus records its biological assets at fair value in the Group balance sheet 315.9m, with the net valuation movement shown in the income statement.
At each reporting period, the Committee was updated on the methodology and outcomes of the biological assets valuation.
Having noted that the methodology was unchanged during the year, the Committee debated and considered managements assumptions and estimates, and discussed and reviewed the external auditors report on this area.
The Committee was satisfied with managements accounting treatment.
Intangible assets capitalisation and Genuss policy is to capitalise certain development costs and to perform periodic impairment of development costs reviews of the carrying amounts to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had 11.1m of capitalised development expenses in respect of GSS, as well as 5.4m in associated fixed assets.
During the year, the Committee received reports from management detailing the cost incurred and the outcome of the impairment reviews.
The Committee also reviewed progress against plans and the projects timelines to full operation.
The Committee discussed managements reports in detail, including whether any known issues might block the projects completion.
The Committee reviewed the external auditors work, including its assessment of managements models supporting the estimates and judgements.
After due challenge and debate, the Committee was satisfied with managements assumptions and judgements.
Acquisitions Birchwood and IVB During the financial year, Genus acquired 100% of the share capital of Birchwood Genetics Inc. a privately owned boar stud operation.
In addition, Genus acquired 51% of the share capital of In Vitro Brazil S. A. the worlds leading commercial provider of bovine IVF technology.
These transactions are described in note 37 to the accounts.
The Committee received updates on the transactions structure and reviewed managements proposed accounting treatment.
The external auditors views supported these proposals.
After discussing the accounting options available, the Committee agreed with managements recommendations.
Pensions The Committee received and reviewed management reports on the treatment of pension costs and also received and considered the external auditors pensions accounting input.
The Committee considered managements recommendations were appropriate.
The Committee continued to review the status of the other parties who are jointly and severally liable for the Milk Pension Fund deficit and concurred with managements assumptions for reporting Genuss share of the fund.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 63 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Monitoring Business Risks Internal Control System Policy.
The Committee was satisfied The Committee reviewed the GroupOur risk management process that using Deloitte for such services wide risk management process and system of internal controls are did not impair its independence designed to identify, evaluate described in detail on pages 58 as the Groups external auditor.
The Committee reviewed auditors presence, the Committee the results of the key financial The Committee assessed the discussed the risks identified with the controls self-assessment process, external auditors performance, Chief Executive and Group Finance which covers key areas of financial based on questionnaires completed Director, along with managements controls and is performed on a sixby key finance staff and Committee plans to mitigate them.
In view of monthly basis, and conducted its members.
The questionnaires covered their importance during the year, the annual review of the effectiveness the external auditors fulfilment Committee ensured that the Board of the Groups internal controls and of the audit plan, the auditors received and discussed detailed disclosures.
The Committee further robustness and perceptiveness in input from management on the reviewed internal audits findings at its handling of key accounting and following key risks and mitigations: each scheduled meeting, and the audit judgements, the content of the China and emerging markets: this Groups whistleblowing policy and external auditors reports, and cost risk is the threat to our growth if we bribery prevention procedures.
The Committee also are unable to develop appropriate considered any regulatory reviews businesses in China and emerging The Committees review of the Groups performed on the external auditor.
With a focus on China, the system of internal control did not The Committee concluded that the Board discussed with management identify any material deficiencies.
the current developments in China However, Genus routinely identifies and Russia and the actions taken by and actions control improvement External Auditors Appointment both regional and global opportunities and the Committee The external auditor, Deloitte management teams to minimise the discussed with management various LLP, was first appointed as the impact on our strategy execution.
opportunities to further strengthen the Companys external auditor for GSS: this is the risk that we are Companys system of internal control.
the period ended 30 June 2006, unable to commercialise our GSS following a formal tender process.
The Board continued to Oversight of External Audit and The current audit partners first receive regular updates throughout Internal Audit audit period was the financial year the year on go-to-market readiness, Internal Audit ended 30 June 2011 and he is due as well as the legal proceedings The Committee reviewed and to hand over to a new partner after relating to the anti-trust issues agreed the internal audit functions signing off this years accounts.
connected with this key initiative.
scope, terms of reference, resources Information systems continuity and and activities.
The Head of Risk In compliance with the UK Corporate recovery: this risk is relevant to our Management and Internal Audit Governance Codes requirement ability to continue to operate our provided regular reports to the for FTSE 350 companies to put the business in case of a system outage Committee on the work undertaken external audit out to tender at least or extended downtime.
The Board and managements responses to every ten years, the Committee received an update on the IT system proposals made in the internal audit oversaw a formal audit retender strategy and the results of a reports issued during the year.
The process for the audit of the financial comprehensive IT security review Committee continued to meet the year ending 30 June 2016.
All big four performed during the year.
The Head of Risk Management and Internal audit firms were invited to tender, of Board discussed the actions taken Audit without management being which two accepted and engaged in to strengthen IT security and present.
The Committee reviewed the discovery process.
and was satisfied with the internal access to the Companys management Biosecurity and continuity of audit functions performance.
and finance teams, as well as all key supply: this is the risk of a negative information relevant to developing outcome for Genus if we lose key External Audit their proposals.
The final proposals livestock or lose our ability to move The Committee reviewed and were presented to the Committee animals and or semen freely agreed the external auditors scope at a special meeting dedicated to including across borders, due to of work and fees, held detailed this topic.
The presentations were disease outbreak, an environmental discussions of the results of its audits followed by question and answer incident or international trade and continued to meet the external sessions, during which the Committee sanctions.
The Board discussed the auditor without management being questioned each teams audit outbreak of PEDv in North America present.
The Committee reviewed approach, global and IT capabilities and its impact on the entire porcine the external auditors objectivity and and how they could add value through industry.
Genus PICs management independence and the Companys the audit process.
The Committee presented to the Board on the policy on engaging the external then discussed the strengths and additional measures being taken to auditor to supply non-audit services.
weaknesses of the two proposals strengthen health management and The Committee received details and how they would meet its primary supply chain resilience.
of the external auditors non-audit objective of securing the highest services to the Group, reviewed audit standards and the best overall the nature and monetary levels client service.
The process concluded of these services, which stood at with the selection of Deloitte LLP, 47% of audit fees, and reviewed and the Committee recommended compliance with the Companys its appointment to the Board.
Non-Audit Services by Auditor Genus plcAnnual Report 2015
