Accountability Financial and business reporting Internal control The Group has in place a number of controls to manage risk in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated When reporting externally, the Board aims to present a fair, accounts.
These include: balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
During the year, the Board satisfied the implementation of Group accounting policies and itself that appropriate assurance processes are in place to procedures, supported by regular bulletins from the central and enable it to state that this annual report, taken as a whole, divisional finance teams on the application of accounting is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the standards and reporting protocols information necessary for users to assess the Companys Group and divisional policies governing the maintenance of position and performance, business model and strategy.
accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial A statement of this responsibility, together with additional control procedures responsibilities of the Directors in respect of the preparation a proprietary internal control monitoring system, GKN Reporting of the annual report, is set out on page 98.
The auditors report and Integrity Procedures GRiP, to assess compliance with key on page 107 includes a statement by  financial controls on monthly, quarterly and annual cycles LLP about their reporting responsibilities.
As set out on page monthly operational review meetings which include, as 36, the Directors are of the opinion that GKNs business is a necessary, reviews of internal financial reporting issues and going concern.
An explanation of how the Board has assessed financial control monitoring the prospects of the Company, taking into account its current divisional certifications in relation to internal financial controls, position and principal risks, can be found on the same page.
accounting judgements and representations of divisional financial results ongoing training and development of financial reporting Risk management and internal control personnel.
We are responsible for setting the risk appetite of the Group and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control Other controls in place to minimise risk and ensure the efficient systems.
We also undertake an annual review of the effectiveness conduct of the Groups business include: of these systems.
the regular review of the GKN Code and policies to ensure that As described in the governance framework on page 61, certain areas of potential risk are adequately covered.
The Code and elements of this responsibility are overseen on our behalf by the policies define the behaviours expected of all GKN employees Executive Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
and are available on the Group intranet the development and dissemination of training programmes Our risk management and internal control processes are regularly to educate employees on relevant topics such as competition reviewed and revised to ensure that they remain relevant to law or anti-bribery and to reinforce the behaviours expected changes in the Groups internal and external risk profiles.
During of them the year we considered changes to the UK Corporate Governance clearly defined approval limits and delegated authorities, Code and related FRC guidance, particularly in respect of risk particularly in relation to treasury transactions, capital management and internal control.
We reviewed our processes in expenditure submissions and major projects the context of these changes and made the following an employee disclosure hotline which employees can use to improvements during the year: report any instances of suspected wrongdoing.
increased oversight of certain principal risks The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal the development and approval of revised Group authority limits risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten the continued strengthening of the Groups export control its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
compliance programme A description of these risks, together with details of how they the development and approval of revised KPIs for the Board are managed or mitigated, is set out on pages 40 to 47. the development of a viability review process a review of risk appetite a review of strategic risks the continued strengthening of our catastrophic health and safety risk assessments and related mitigation.
Enterprise risk management GKNs enterprise risk management ERM programme facilitates a Group-wide approach to the identification, assessment and management of risk.
Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their business risks and to report on whether there has been any material breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review is supplemented by an interim review conducted at the half year.
A description of the process for managing enterprise risk is provided on pages 38 and 39.
GKN plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The areas of our risk assurance processes in which compliance monitoring is overseen by the Executive Sub-Committee on The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Governance and Risk ESCGR include: financial reporting, IT systems of internal control and risk management during the controls, legal matters including anti-bribery and corruption, period covered by this annual report.
It confirms that the competition law and export control, human resources issues processes described above, which accord with the FRC including employment practices and employee disclosures, and guidance on risk management, internal control and related health, safety and the environment.
The risk assurance framework financial and business reporting, have been in place therefore incorporates: throughout that period and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board confirms that no significant failings monthly monitoring of compliance with the GRiP financial or weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
reporting processes through a self-certification process and peer reviews the quarterly completion of an IT controls checklist confirming Relations with investors adherence to Group IT standards and policies The Board maintains a dialogue with investors with the aim of monitoring the completion of mandated training on legal topics ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
receiving assurance from divisional committees that they have complied with Group policy on the use of sales agents and Major shareholders consultants implemented as part of the Groups anti-bribery Communication with major institutional shareholders is and corruption measures undertaken as part of GKNs investor relations programme, in the annual completion of a human resources controls checklist which non-executive Directors are encouraged to participate.
confirming compliance with certain Group HR standards and procedures The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have regular monitoring the completion of internal health and safety audits meetings with the Groups major shareholders and feedback from against target and any themes arising from these audits these meetings is reported to the Board.
in-depth health and safety risk analysis at high risk sites the annual completion of a questionnaire by senior managers in relation to awareness of the Groups Code and policies Discussion the annual confirmation by senior managers that non-financial The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director of controls are in place and operating effectively in their Investor Relations meet regularly with major shareholders to businesses.
discuss strategy, financial and operating performance.
The ESCGR monitors the output from these processes and reports any areas of concern and proposals for improvement to the Feedback Executive Committee for consideration.
Feedback is sought by the Companys brokers to ensure that the In 2015, the ESCGR made recommendations to adopt a Group-wide Groups strategy and performance is being communicated policy on driver safety, develop Group standards for key health effectively and to develop a better understanding of and safety risks, and increase focus on implementing cyber shareholders views.
security measures, all of which were accepted by the Executive Committee.
Report The Groups risk management and internal control systems and This feedback is included in a twice-yearly report to the Board, procedures are designed to identify, manage and, where which also provides an update on investor relations activity, practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of failure to highlights changes in holdings of substantial shareholders, and achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate reports on share price movements.
such risk, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
I am responsible for ensuring that all Directors are aware of major shareholders views.
With support from the Company Secretary, I Process for review of effectiveness meet with institutional shareholders and investor representatives The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the to discuss matters relating to governance and strategy and feed ongoing control processes.
The actions undertaken by the back their views to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is Committee to discharge this responsibility are described in the also available to discuss issues with shareholders where concerns Audit & Risk Committees report on pages 70 to 75. cannot be addressed through normal channels of communication.
The Board receives an annual report from the Audit & Risk Richard Parry-Jones, in his capacity as Remuneration Committee Committee concerning the operation of the key systems of internal Chairman, also engages in discussion with shareholders on control and risk management.
This report is considered by the significant matters relating to executive remuneration.
Board in forming its own view on the effectiveness of the systems.
GKN hosted a number of events for institutional investors in 2015, which included site visits and presentations.
The presentations are available on our website.
GKN plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual general meeting Information regarding the 2016 AGM is given on page 95.
Shareholders who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal AGM business has been completed.
Resolutions for consideration at the AGM are voted on by way of a poll rather than by a show of hands to allow the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast by proxy.
The results of the poll are announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on our website after the meeting.
Compliance statement This corporate governance statement, together with the Nominations Committee report on pages 68 and 69, the Audit & Risk Committee report on pages 70 to 75 and the Directors remuneration report on pages 76 to 91, provide a description of how the main principles of the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied within GKN during 2015.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on its website at www.
It is the Boards view that, throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2015, GKN was in compliance with the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2 1, 2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown on pages 95 to 97.
GKN plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
