Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Leadership and effectiveness The Chairman The role of the Chairman is to lead and manage the business of the Board and to provide direction and focus, while ensuring that there is a clear structure for the effective operation of the Board and its Committees.
He sets the agenda for Board discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and to support a sound decision-making process.
Sir Philip Hampton, who succeeded Sir Christopher Gent as Chairman on 7 May 2015, works closely with the Chief Executive officer, Sir Andrew Witty, to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are effectively implemented.
He also provides support and advice to Sir Andrew, while respecting his executive responsibility for managing the Group.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has been agreed by the Board and is set out in the governance section of our website.
Sir Philip satisfied the FRC Codes independence test on his appointment to the Board, and is responsible to shareholders for the performance of the Group and leads discussions with them.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element on the Board.
They are well placed to constructively challenge and support management and to shape proposals on strategy and succession planning.
Between them, they bring independent judgement and a breadth of skills and experience gained at the most senior levels of international business operations and academia.
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
All our Non-Executive Directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance of their duties.
No precise timings are given as this will vary from year to year depending on the companys activities.
They are expected to attend all Board meetings, and any additional meetings as required.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors, including those with tenure of more than nine years, to demonstrate an appropriate degree of independence in character and judgement and to be free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The independence and commitment of those Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for over six years was subjected to a rigorous review.
Senior Independent Sir Deryck Maughan has been our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID since 1 May 2013.
Non-Executive Director Sir Derycks role is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted intermediary for the other Directors.
The SID also works on the process for the selection of a new Chairman, as appropriate, and chairs the Nominations Committee when agreeing the recommendation to the Board for the Chairmans successor.
Sir Deryck maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns of our major shareholders through meetings with them and reports from our Investor Relations team and briengs from the Company Secretary on corporate governance issues.
Vindi Banga will succeed Sir Deryck as SID when he retires from the Board after our AGM on 5 May 2016.
CEO Sir Andrew is responsible for the management of the business, developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
He is assisted by other members of the Corporate Executive Team CET, which meets at least 11 times a year and more often if required.
Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under Our Corporate Executive Team on pages 78 to 79.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, is a solicitor and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Victoria was formerly Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
She has acted as Secretary to the Board and all the Boards Committees since her appointment as Company Secretary on 1 January 2011.
Victoria Whyte supports the Chairman in designing the induction for new Directors, in the delivery of our corporate governance agenda, in particular in the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board and Committee meetings, and in ensuring that information is made available to Board members on a timely basis.
She advises the Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance matters, and arranges for the Non-Executive Directors to meet with investors to discuss aspects of our corporate governance arrangements on request.
She also arranges for them to attend internal management meetings and to make visits to our business operations to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the business.
During 2015, the Company Secretary responded to various consultations on the evolving global governance and corporate reporting agenda on behalf of the Group and engaged with shareholders to ensure they fully understood GSKs governance and remuneration arrangements.
At the request of the Chairman, she undertakes the evaluation of the Board and its Committees in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen in years when the evaluation is conducted internally.
GSK Annual Report 2015 83 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued Diversity Experience International experience Composition Tenure Non-Executives % % % % scientific 27 Global 73 Up to 3 years 42 Executive 20 % % % % Finance 27 US 100 3-6 years 25 Non-Executive 80 % % % % Industry 46 Europe 87 Male 73 7-9 years 8 % % % EMAP 60 Female 27 Over 9 years 25 The Board In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met The Board met face to face six times in 2015, with each member on a quorate basis on five occasions to consider corporate attending as follows: transactions, including the Novartis transaction.
Number of Board member since meetings attended Board induction Sir Philip Hampton 1 January 2015 6 6 A number of new Non-Executive Directors have joined the Board during the year and have each undertaken Board induction Sir Andrew Witty 31 January 2008 6 6 programmes that commenced when they were each appointed.
Simon Dingemans 4 January 2011 6 6 The programme devised for our new Chairman, was based on Dr Moncef Slaoui 17 May 2006 6 6 the principles of the companys new Non-Executive Directors programmes outlined below.
It was further customised to take Sir Deryck Maughan 1 June 2004 6 6 account of his leadership role at GSK.
A core element of this was Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2007 6 6 individual meetings he held on a listening tour of GSKs major shareholders, to understand rsthand their views and perspectives Vindi Banga 1 September 2015 2 2 on the Group, the companys strategy, leadership, business model, Dr Stephanie Burns 12 February 2007 6 6 performance and trading environment.
Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 6 6 His enhanced programme is set out in full on page 81 of GSKs 2014 Annual Report.
Lynn Elsenhans 1 July 2012 6 6 The induction programmes for Urs Rohner, Vindi Banga and Judy Lewent 1 April 2011 6 6 Dr Jesse Goodman have been: Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 6 6 i Individually designed and facilitated: by the Chairman Urs Rohner 1 January 2015 6 6 and the Company Secretary.
Hans Wijers 1 April 2013 5 6 ii Designed with the purpose: to orientate and familiarise Sir Christopher Gent 1 June 2004 3 3 them with our industry, organisation, governance and our strategy to Grow, Deliver & Simplify.
Tom fide Swaan 1 January 2006 3 3 iii Cu stomised: to take account of their respective experience, Jing Ulrich 1 July 2012 2 3 different geographical backgrounds and business perspectives, in light of the particular roles they would Dr Jesse Goodman was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect perform and the Committees on which they would serve.
Each Board member that is seeking re-election at GSKs 2016 AGM Key elements of the induction programmes including one-to-one attended all six scheduled Board meetings.
briengs, teach-in sessions and site visits undertaken by Urs Rohner, Vindi Banga and Dr Jesse Goodman are set out These directors retired from the Board on 7 May 2015. below: Board composition and diversity Executive Directors to discuss GSKs strategic, financial and We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose R&D priorities.
capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic positioning of our business.
The process for Board appointments CET members to cover our principal Pharmaceuticals, is led by the Nominations Committee and is described on Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines businesses, together pages 95 to 97. with the R&D and GMS organisations that underpin our operating model.
We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so Other senior executives to cover our core operations such as Strategic Development, Finance, Tax, Treasury, Audit and that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors, Assurance, HR, Investor Relations and Global Ethics and while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which Compliance.
more recent appointees bring to the Boards deliberations.
Site visits to our GMS, Vaccines, and R&D facilities.
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, Investor meetings which have been particularly customised medical research and academia, and retail, insurance and financial for Vindi Banga in his role of SID.
services, and have appropriate experience of complex organisations CIA each new Director receives two hours of training on our with global reach.
Some have considerable experience of the CIA obligations.
pharmaceutical industry and the more recent appointees bring a new approach to the Group, and to Board discussions.
The Boards diversity policy is set out on page 97 and for details of the gender diversity of GSKs global workforce, see page 47.
