Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance Board governance Our strategy and progress towards its delivery are set out in the Strategic Report.
The following pages provide information about the Board and its oversight of the Groups activities during 2015.
The Board The Board is pleased to report that in 2015 it was in full compliance with the requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code Code, with the exception of Code provision C. 3.7. which requires audit contract tenders to be undertaken at least every 10 years.
Page 92 sets out the details of this years audit contract tender process.
A copy of the Code is available on the FRCs website, www.
co. uk The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company and is accountable to our shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and governed.
We believe that our governance structure provides the right base to help us deliver our strategy to Grow a diversied business, Deliver more products of value and Simplify our operating model, and in doing so create additional long-term value for our shareholders.
2015 Board programme The Board met face to face six times in 2015 and each Board member attended all scheduled Board meetings.
The Board agendas were shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and debate by closely managing time allocated to routine items to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities.
During 2015, the agendas for Board meetings included the following business: Month Strategy Board and risk oversight Governance January Review of CEO objectives 2014 Review of 2014 financial results Secretarys Report including and 2015 and outlook for 2015 regulatory and governance updates Review of 2014 investor activity Re-appointment of auditors and 2015 activity Novartis transaction update Approval of 2015 Budget and 2015-2017 Plan March Review of reshaped Consumer Review financial results for the Secretarys Report including Healthcare and Global Pharmaceuticals year to date regulatory and governance updates businesses Ebola Vaccines update Mandatory annual Corporate Integrity Deep Dive US Pharmaceuticals Agreement CIA training pricing and formulary access May Review revised 2015-20 Plan and Review of financial results for the Secretarys Report including long range forecasting following year to date regulatory and governance updates completion of Novartis transaction Global Manufacturing & Supply Preparation for AGM annual update Novartis transaction update Review Annual CIA agreement compliance resolutions July Annual Review of Talent and Leadership Review of financial results for the Secretarys Report including Development strategy year to date regulatory and governance updates Review of funding strategy and Vaccines annual update including treasury policy integration and pipeline Review of Pensions and Insurance strategies Proposed agenda for annual Board & CET Strategy meeting Review of Going Concern assumptions October Annual Board & CET strategy meeting Review of financial results for the Secretarys Report including regulatory Review of output from the annual year to date and governance updates Board & CET strategy meeting R&D annual update Quality update New Healthcare professional HCP model update December Review of 2016 Budget and Review of financial results for the Secretarys Report including regulatory 2016-2018 Plan year to date and governance updates Supply Chain update Nucala launch plans Pricing update During the year, all Board members were invited to attend the Audit & Risk Committee meetings where risk matters were routinely discussed.
