50 Board of Directors and Company Secretary 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 51 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 1Bob Lawson 3Stephen Wilson 6Professor Duncan Maskell Group Finance Director Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee Chair Board appointment Board appointment Board appointment January 2013 April 2014 November 2010 Stephen was previously Executive Duncan is Senior Pro-Vice Chancellor Bobs executive career spanned Vice President and Chief Financial PVC of the University of Cambridge, several UK and continental groups, Officer of Misys plc.
Prior to Misys, where he and other PVCs are including ten years as Chief Executive he spent 25 years at IBM, where he responsible for taking forward the of Electrocomponents plc and three worked in all areas of finance and led Universitys strategy and policy years as Managing Director of Vitec business development and change development.
Stephen has worked Group plc.
He has experience of Head of the School of the Biological leading international businesses, in France and the US and has wideSciences at the University where ranging experience of mergers and including through operational he led researchers working on and culture changes, and a deep acquisitions, financing, strategy and infectious diseases of livestock and investor relations.
He is a Fellow of the understanding of listed companies people.
He has worked on vaccines and corporate governance.
He was Chartered Institute of Management at Wellcome Biotech and on bacteria Accountants and a Non-Executive appointed Non-Executive Chairman that cause childhood meningitis at of Eurocell plc in January 2015 and Director of Xchanging plc, where the Institute of Molecular Medicine, he chairs the Audit Committee.
is Chairman of the Federation of University of Oxford.
Duncan has been Groundwork Trusts.
Bob retired as He holds a degree in Mathematics instrumental in co-founding several from the University of Cambridge.
Non-Executive Chairman of Barratt biotech companies.
He has extensive Developments plc in November 2014. experience of commercialising science and innovation, and of being a scientific adviser to companies, using 4Nigel Turner his broad perspective on life sciences.
2Karim Bitar Senior Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Remuneration Committee Chair Board appointment Board appointment 7Lykele van der Broek September 2011 January 2008 Non-Executive Director Nigel is a Non-Executive Director Prior to joining Genus, Karim worked Board appointment for more than 15 years for Eli Lilly and of Croda plc.
He was Chairman of July 2014 Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Company, where he was President of Lilly Europe, Canada and Australia.
Chairman of Numis Corporation plc Lykele retired as a member of the from December 2005 to November An ex-McKinsey and Company Executive Committee of Bayer consultant, he also held management 2007.
Previously he was Vice Chairman CropScience, a division of Bayer AG, on of ABN AMROs Wholesale and roles at Johnson and Johnson, 31 July 2014.
Prior to this he held senior and the Dow Chemical Company.
Investment Bank, having joined in international roles, including Head of the 2000 from Lazard, where he was Karim has extensive experience of Bayer CropScience BioScience division leading international, science-based a Partner for 15 years and also sat and President of the Bayer HealthCare organisations.
His strategic review of on its Supervisory Board.
Nigel has Animal Health division.
He has a Genus in 2012 resulted in a new vision, substantial experience of international Master of Science degree from the strategy, structure and core values.
Agricultural University in Wageningen, He has a BSc in Biochemistry from the Netherlands.
Lykele has vast the University of Wisconsin and an experience of growing companies and MBA from the University of Michigan.
of working in agricultural businesses 5Mike Buzzacott in Asia, Europe and Latin America.
Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Chair Board appointment 8Dan Hartley May 2009 Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Mike is a Non-Executive Director of Scapa Plc.
He is a qualified accountant Appointment and spent 34 years at BP, holding June 2014 international roles including Finance and Control Director Asia Pacific, Dan joined Genus from Shire plc, where CFO BP Nutrition and Group Vice he was Senior Vice President and President Petrochemicals.
An Australian former Non-Executive Director of and UK dual national, Dan holds Croda plc and Rexam plc and was degrees in science and law.
After a Chairman of Biofuels plc.
His roles number of years in private practice, have given him extensive experience Dan joined Shire in 2002 and worked of working in Asian and European in increasingly senior and global roles markets, and of dealing with in the UK and US.
He has significant acquisitions, mergers and divestments.
experience in multi-jurisdictional patent litigation, mergers and acquisitions, patent licensing and managing Member of Nomination Committee Member of Remuneration Committee product life cycles in complex areas.
Member of Audit Committee Genus plcAnnual Report 2015
