CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Leadership The role of the Board We are responsible for the long-term success of GKN, with Our governance framework establishes a clear division of the overarching aim of safeguarding shareholders interests.
A full description of our role, Principally, we achieve this through: which includes a number of specific responsibilities reserved to us, is available on our website at www.
setting the strategic objectives of the Group ensuring that the Group has the executive leadership and necessary resources to meet its objectives approving key strategic projects and the Group and divisional budgets ensuring that the Group has an effective risk management framework setting and maintaining the values and standards of the Group reviewing management performance.
Shareholders Board Accountable to shareholders and responsible for the long-term success of the Company Company Secretary Chairman Board committees Chief Executive Provides Leads the Board and is Support the Board Leads the business and is independent advice responsible for in the fulfilment of its duties responsible for executing the to the Board, its effectiveness strategy ensures good information flow, and maintains good shareholder Senior Independent Non-executive Executive relations Director Directors Directors Acts as a sounding board Constructively challenge Responsible for the dayfor the Chairman and and help develop the to-day operation of intermediary for other Groups strategy the business Directors where necessary GKN plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board meetings We meet formally approximately nine times a year.
In order to In addition to regular Board reviews of strategic projects, we hold increase visibility of the Groups operations and provide further one two-day Board meeting per year which is devoted to reviewing opportunities to meet senior management, at least one Board progress made against Group strategy and discussing longer-term meeting is combined with a visit to the Groups business strategic options.
During this meeting we receive detailed updates locations.
In 2015 we visited GKN Drivelines factories in Celaya on markets and technology trends from external experts and we and Villagran, Mexico, where we toured the facilities, reviewed discuss and approve the strategy for each division and the Group.
business performance and met with employees.
At our visit to A number of informal meetings are also held during the year which Villagran we also opened a new state-of-the-art manufacturing help to ensure that there are strong relations between Directors.
facility for premium propshaft production to support Mexicos Additionally, I meet from time to time with the non-executive growing automotive sector and the broader growth in demand for Directors without the executive Directors being present so that we all-wheel drive vehicles in the Americas.
can discuss their priorities and concerns.
I have set out below the areas on which we focused in 2015.
Reviewed and approved the Groups strategic plans and annual budget.
Strategy Reviewed a number of potential acquisitions.
Approved the acquisition of Fokker and the associated funding, including an equity placing.
Approved the acquisition of Sheets Manufacturing Inc.
Conducted a post-investment review of Volvo Aero, acquired in 2012.
Assessed the risks to the achievement of the Groups strategy and reviewed the Groups Risk risk appetite.
Considered and debated the principal risks and uncertainties which could impact the Group.
Approved the level of risk financing and insurance.
Agreed severe but plausible scenarios to model and test the viability of the Group.
Considered succession planning for the Board and for senior executive positions within Capabilities the Group.
Evaluated the effectiveness of the Board and agreed appropriate actions.
Reviewed divisional strategic and operational performance.
Performance Approved revised KPIs to support our ongoing monitoring of management performance.
Considered Group financial performance against budget and forecast.
Considered health and safety performance throughout the Group.
Reviewed the half year and annual results and approved the annual report and interim financial statements.
Considered and approved revised Group authority limits.
Control Assessed, with the support of the Audit & Risk Committee, the effectiveness of internal control and audit processes.
Board committees In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, certain Board Only the committee chairman and members are entitled to be responsibilities are delegated to our Board committees, which present at committee meetings, although additional attendees play an important role in supporting the Board.
Reports on the may be invited should their input be required.
In order that the activities of our principal committees can be found on the Board remains fully updated on their work, the committee following pages, and their terms of reference are available on our chairmen formally report on committee activities at the website.
All Board committees are supported by the Company subsequent Board meeting.
GKN plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GKN plc Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Executive Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Shonaid Richard Mike Turner Nigel Stein Nigel Stein Chairman Jemmett-Page Parry-Jones All independent All independent All non-executive Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Composition non-executive non-executive Directors and the Group Finance Group Finance Directors Directors Chief Executive Director, divisional Director, General chief executives, Counsel & Company Group HR Director, Secretary Group Communications Director, General Counsel & Company Secretary Monitors the Agrees Leads the process Leads, oversees Ensures adequate Role integrity of the remuneration of the for identifying and and directs the procedures, financial reporting Directors and the appointing activities of the systems and process.
Company Secretary Directors with skills Group.
controls are within the terms of and experience to maintained to Reviews the agreed policy.
deliver the Executes the enable the managements continued success Groups strategic Company to comply responsiveness to Reviews and of the Company.
with its obligations the external approves proposed regarding auditors findings.
shortand longKeeps under review Approves and leads identification and term incentive the succession the consistent disclosure of inside Reviews the Groups payments to planning and implementation of information.
internal control and executive Directors leadership needs of business and risk management to ensure such the Group.
operational Ensures that all systems.
Keeps under review regulatory Reviews the the structure, size Identifies, announcements, effectiveness of the Monitors the level and composition of evaluates and the annual report external and and structure of the Board and its monitors the risks and accounts and internal audit remuneration of the committees, facing the Group other documents process.
most senior recommending any and decides how issued by the executives below changes to the they are to be Company comply Board level.
Executive sub-committees The work of the Executive Committee in executing the Groups strategy is supported by three sub-committees as shown below.
Executive Committee Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee Governance and Risk Group Technology Strategy Board drives operational best practice develops the Groups technology plan Sub-Committee through the application of Lean monitors and reviews matters relating business processes to governance, compliance and risk management In addition, the Chief Executives Council assists in shaping the Groups strategy and operations.
Chaired by the Chief Executive, the Councils membership comprises members of the Executive Committee and some 20 senior executives from divisional leadership teams involved in the day-to-day running of the businesses.
GKN plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
