Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Corporate governance report This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Chairman Report and the remainder of the Governance section.
Leader of the Board Responsible for effective communication flow Board governance and structure between Directors Overview Facilitates effective contribution of all Directors Responsible for effective Board governance This governance report sets out how Glencore has applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code Ensures effective communication with shareholders the Code in a manner which enables shareholders Chief Executive Officer to evaluate how these principles have been applied.
Leads and motivates management team As a London premium listed entity we seek to ensure Implements strategy and objectives as directed full compliance with the Code.
The Board believes that bythe Board the Company has throughout the year complied with all Develops Group policies and proposals for approval relevant provisions contained in the Code.
by the Board and ensures effective implementation Glencores Board comprises seven Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director including the Chairman and one Executive Director.
A list of the current Directors, with their brief biographical Is a confidant of the Chairman and whenappropriate also acts as an intermediary details and other significant commitments, is provided forother independent Directors in the previous pages.
The Chief Financial Officer Will stand in for the Chairman if he is unable attends all meetings of the Board and Audit Committee.
to attend The Company Secretary attends all meetings of the Board Chairs the Nominations Committee and its committees.
Responsible for appraising the Chairmans Division of responsibilities performance alongwith other independent Directors Available to shareholders to answer questions As a Jersey incorporated company, Glencore has a unitary board, meaning all Directors share equal responsibility for Other Non-Executive Directors decisions taken.
Glencore has established a clear division Supply challenge and support to management between the respective responsibilities of the Non-Executive Bring independent mindset and differing Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which are backgrounds andexperience to Board debates set out in a schedule of responsibilities which has been Provide leadership and challenge as chair of, or a approved by the Board.
While the Non-Executive Chairman member of, the board committees which except is responsible for leading the Boards discussions and HSEC comprise only Non-Executive Directors decision-making, the CEO is responsible for implementing Scrutinise leadership of chairman and executing strategy and for leading Glencores operating performance and day-to-day management.
The CEO and Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer have line of sight across the Group.
Secretary to Board Committees The CEO is further supported by the Groups senior Informs the Board on all matters reserved to it management team principally comprising the heads of the andensures papers are provided in sufficient businesses and the head of strategy.
The Company Secretary detailand on time is responsible for ensuring that there is clear and effective Available to Directors in respect of Board procedures information flow to the Non-Executive Directors.
andprovides support and advice Ensures the Board is kept informed on Further details of these responsibilities are set out opposite.
governance matters Peter Grauer, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Coordinates and assists with the Board evaluation process along with the Chairman is available to meet with shareholders and acts as an intermediary between the Chairman and other independent Directors when required.
This division of responsibilities, coupled with the schedule of reserved matters for the Board, ensures that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 75 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES Governance Corporate governance report Non-Executive Directors Board Committees The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a broad The following four Committees are in place to assist the range of skills and experience to the Board, which assists Board in exercising its functions: Audit, Nomination, intheir roles in formulating the Companys strategy and in Remuneration and Health, Safety, Environmental and providing constructive challenge to executive management.
Communities HSEC, as set out in the diagram on the next page.
Committee meetings are held prior to Board Glencore regularly assesses its Non-Executive Directors meetings and at each scheduled Board meeting the independence.
Except for Peter Coates, due to his chairman of each Committee leads a discussion concerning chairmanship of Sphere Minerals Limited, a quoted the Committees activities since the previous Board meeting.
subsidiary, they all are regarded by the Company as Independent Non-Executive Directors within the meaning The Committees carry out a considerable amount of work.
of independent as defined in the Code and free from any In particular: business or other relationship which could materially the Audit Committee provides challenge and enquiry on interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
the significant areas of financial and accounting oversight This view has been taken having regard to all facts and risk management: and including that John Mack was until 2011 chairman of the HSEC Committee, whose membership includes Morgan Stanley, which provides advisory andfinancial services to the Group.
As Mr Mack ceased tobe CEO of both Chairman and CEO, continues to have the heaviest workload of all the committees due to its Morgan Stanley in 2009, Morgan Stanleys relationship with the Company is led from its UK office and Mr Mack was not strong leadership of sustainability issues and the rangeof matters which it considers.
Its work on involved in the delivery of these services, we believe that applying in a common sense construction tothe provisions drivingimprovements in the prevention of catastrophic events and safety performance continues to be of of the Code, it is reasonable to conclude that Mr Mack is independent in accordance with its terms.
A report for 2015 from each Committee chairman is set out Management of conflicts of interest later in this Corporate governance report.
All Directors endeavour to avoid any situation of conflict of Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference interest with the Company.
Potential conflicts can arise and approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee therefore processes and procedures are in place requiring meetings are circulated to the Board.
Each Committee Directors to identify and declare any actual or potential reviewed its terms of reference during the year and as conflict of interest.
Any such notifications are required to be aresult revisions were made to the HSEC Committees made by the Directors prior to, or at, a Board meeting and terms of reference to ensure they continue to conform all Directors have a duty to update the whole Board of any tobest practice.
Glencores Articles of Association and Jersey law allow for the Board to authorise potential All Committees terms of reference are available at: conflicts and the potentially conflicted Director must abstain www.
com who-we-are board-of-directors from any vote accordingly.
During 2015, no abstention board-committees procedures for conflicts had to be activated.
76 Glencore Annual Report 2015 C R H I E E C F N I O F E M E F I X E N O T A E T T L C I I M O A U N M I S T C O S I C C N V O O T A I R E M D N M U N I O I O A T F T F E F G F T E I E I H C S C O C E I R R O E N T C R G E I R E I D D Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information SHAREHOLDERS bysenior executives and some technical and investor Board meetings relationsupdates.
Presentations from the business The Board has approved a formal schedule which sets out andsenior management allow Directors to enhance their those matters which are reserved for its decision-making understanding of the business and the implementation alone such as strategy, the annual budget and material ofstrategy, in turn contributing to a more effective Board.
Meetings are usually held A summary of the Boards main activities during 2015 attheCompanys headquarters in Baar, Switzerland.
issetout on the next page.
Details ofthe Board and Committee meetings held during the year are detailed below.
Several times a year the Chairman holds meetings with theNon-Executive Directors without the Executive Director The Board and its Committees have standing agenda present, and at least once a year the Non-Executive Directors itemsto cover their proposed business at their scheduled meet without the Chairman present.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that the very significant work of the Committees feeds into, and benefits as to feedback from, the full Board.
The Board and Committee meetings also benefit from presentations Glencore Annual Report 2015 77 N F E E O E G T T I D H A M R M T O G A C O S E E B I T T I R M N C E U M M E U M E N O E N C R L D A T N T E I A O T N N E C M O N M O M R I I T V T N E E E, Y T E F A S, H T L A E H Governance Corporate governance report Work at Board Meetings The main considerations and actions carried out at the meetings of the Board during 2015 are summarised below.
The scheduled shortagenda and short notice meetings were held by telephone.
Thework of its committees are described later in this report.
At each main scheduled meeting the following standing matters are considered: consideration of any new conflicts of interest: review of minutes of previous meetings, including actions from previous meetings: and reports updates from the CEO, CFO, Head of Strategy and Investor Relations and Head of Communications.
These reports include consideration of strategic matters including possible asset expansions contractions, acquisitions disposals, material debt refinancings and analysis of risks.
In addition: regular updates are provided by the Company Secretary on governance, Board processes and other Company secretarial matters: and usually the Non-Executive Directors have a separate meeting, with sometimes a second session without the Chairman present.
Board activities completed during 2015 First scheduled short agenda meeting Third scheduled meeting Fifth short notice meeting Results business update Half-year results, including review and Review of progress on debt reduction approval, where appropriate, of: programme and investor relations Consideration and approval of proposal to distribute the Groups 23.9% stake in Lonmin plc report from the Audit Committee Chairman: Assessment of current steps taken and consideration of further initiatives as to greater Review and approval of 2014 Production Report principal risks and mitigation to be disclosed: balance sheet stability report on going concern: interim distribution: Fourth scheduled meeting First scheduled meeting half year results announcement: and Considerable review of equity and credit Annual Results, including review and approval, management representation letter markets and careful review of investor priorities where appropriate, of: Strategic review of the coal market and the Consideration of progress of debt reduction plan report from the Audit Committee Chairman: performance of the Groups coal assets including Market updates focusing in particular on detailed consideration of principal risks presentation from the Head of Coal Zinc, Copper, Coal and Nickel, including uncertainties and mitigation to be disclosed: Strategic review of the copper markets including presentations from the respective report on going concern: presentation from the Head of Copper commodity heads final distribution recommendation: Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman Consideration of budget planning on a conservative basis full-year results announcement for the Report from the Audit Committee Chairman prior year: Detailed discussion on the Board evaluation Report from the Nomination Annual Report draft: and process and its outcomes Committee Chairman management representation letter Review of Groups IT function including Report from the Remuneration cyber security Committee Chairman Consideration of AGM resolutions Review of legal and compliance function Considered outcomes from multiple Consideration of restructuring of the Groups including actual or potential litigation shareholder meetings on governance and interests in Russneft sustainability issues Report from the Audit Committee Chairman Report from the Nomination Committee chairman and discussion on whether all Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman currentDirectors should stand at AGM First short notice meeting Report from the Remuneration Committee chairman Business update Third scheduled short agenda meeting Report from the HSEC Committee chairman, Discussion on interim results investor feedback, Update on debt reduction programme inparticular discussion on safety improvements deteriorating market conditions and how the Consideration and approval of $900 million and revamped sustainability report Company should respond Antamina streaming transaction Review of procedure for Board and Review of available options Considered and approved the committees evaluation Q3Production Report Review and agreement on outcomes of 2014 Second short notice meeting Considered and approved a programme to Board evaluation reduce zinc production Continued the deliberations of the previous Reviewed updated Board governance documents meeting.
Concluded with decision to seek and key policies an equity capital raising in the near future and for the Company to enter into a standby Fifth scheduled meeting underwriting agreement and to canvass investor Review of debt reduction programme opinion on timing and form ofequity issue Second scheduled short agenda meeting Review of principal risks and uncertainties and Make major operational changes to its African Business update preparation for longer-term viability statement copper assets Considered and approved the Considered and approved the 2016 budget Q1Production Report and2017 - 2019 business plan including review ofall mainparts of the business Third short notice meeting Consideration of Board refreshment Consideration of investor feedback on timing Second scheduled meeting and form of equity issue Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman Briefing on the business to be conducted at Report from the Audit Committee Chairman theAGM and after, of the other issues raised Approved share placing to raise $2.5 billion Report from the Remuneration Briefing from Head of Nickel including review Committee Chairman ofKoniambo capital expenditure Fourth short notice meeting External Board evaluation discussion, including Business update agreement of scope and process Discussion on current challenging market Review of Lonmin shares distribution proposal conditions and what further decisions might Engagement with NGOs beappropriate for the Company to take in Report from the HSEC Committee chairman relation to them Report from the Audit Committee chairman 78 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Attendance during the year for all scheduled full agenda Board and Board Committee meetings is set out in the table below: Board of 5 Audit of 4 Remuneration of 3 Nomination of 2 HSEC of 5 Ivan Glasenberg 5 5 Anthony Hayward 5 5 William Macaulay 5 4 3 Leonhard Fischer 5432 Peter Coates 5 5 John Mack 5 3 2 Peter Grauer 5 4 2 Patrice Merrin 5 5 In addition, there were another eight limited agenda ensuring the Board procedures are complied with, and meetings ofthe Board.
Details of all these Board meetings haveaccess to independent and professional advice at the are set out on the previous page.
Companys expense, where they judge this to be necessary todischarge their responsibilities as Directors.
Appointment and re-election of Directors Director induction process All Directors will be offering themselves for re-election atthe 2016 AGM.
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, including meetings with senior All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of management.
The induction programme aims to build: appointment and the details of their terms are set out in theDirectors remuneration report.
No other contract an in-depth understanding of Glencore, its business and withthe Company or any subsidiary undertaking of the the markets in which it operates: Company in which any Director was materially interested a link with Glencore employees, particularly the senior existed during or at the end of the financial year except that management: and Peter Coates received fees of AUD75,000 during 2015 as Chairman of the Companys subsidiary undertaking a clear appreciation of the Companys risks.
Sphere Minerals Limited which is quoted on the Australian Board effectiveness Stock Exchange.
The Board of Glencore engaged independent advisers Information, management meetings, site visits and Spencer Stuart to facilitate an evaluation of the Boards professional development effectiveness during 2015.
Previous Board evaluations have It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive been conducted internally.
The scope of the evaluation Directors 1 attain a good knowledge of the Company covered the Board, its four Committees and theDirectors andits business and 2 allocate sufficient time to Glencore individually.
to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Board calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed Process onawide range of topics.
Directors are also given the The process involved carrying out formal interviews opportunity to visit Group operations and discuss aspects witheach Director, with members of the management team of the business with employees, and regularly meet the including the Chief Financial Officer and Head of Internal heads of the Groups main departments and other senior Audit, with the lead partner of independent auditors executives.
As well as internal briefings, Directors attend Deloitte LLP and with representatives from two institutional appropriate external seminars and briefings.
Directors were asked for their views on a Normally meetings with heads of commodities and other structured set of questions addressing Board processes, Board information and Board dynamics.
They were also senior Group functions take place alongside scheduled Board meetings.
In addition, in order to better familiarise asked for their feedback on the contributions of fellow Directors and the Chairman.
themselves with the industrial activities, regular site visits take place.
The independent adviser attended a full Board meeting All Directors have access to the advice and services of the andall four Board Committee meetings in order to assess Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for how the Board and Board Committees operate in practice.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 79 Governance Corporate governance report The Board evaluation report was presented to the Board at Risk management and internal control the October Board meeting.
The Chairman had individual The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by follow-up conversations with each Director to discuss the establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating feedback on their performance.
The Senior Independent and managing the risks that are considered significant by Director had a follow-up conversation with the Chairman the Group in accordance with the revised Turnbull todiscuss the feedback on his performance.
Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial Reporting Council.
This process has been in place for the Outcome period under review and up to the date of approval of the The Directors are satisfied that the Board and each of its Annual Report and financial statements.
The process is Committees is operating effectively.
Nonetheless, the Board designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate risk, has identified a number of actions that will help maintain and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance and improve its effectiveness including: against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the the Board has decided to add an additional full agenda principal risks facing the Group and have reviewed the Board meeting to the annual calendar from 2016 and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control increase the length of some Board meetings: systems.
This review excludes associates of the Group as the Board has reviewed the current agenda formulation Glencore does not have the ability to dictate or modify the for Board meetings and identified items for additional internal controls of these entities.
This report describes how regular inclusion over the coming year: and the effectiveness of the Groups structure of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls long-term Board succession planning will be an area and risk management systems is reviewed.
of greater focus for the Nominations Committee and the Board.
Risk Board leadership It is the Boards intention to continue to review its The Board provides leadership and oversight on performance annually including that of its Committees riskmanagement.
1 provides a robust assessment of the principal risks Remuneration facingthe Group Remuneration is covered in the Directors remuneration The Board determines the nature and extent of the report which follows this section.
It includes a description principal risks the Group should take in achieving ofthe work of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Accountability and audit Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Financial reporting The Directors description of those risks andtheir The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review explanation as to how they are being managed or cycle, which includes a detailed annual planning budgeting mitigated are set out on pages 28 to 35. process where business units prepare budgets for overall consolidation and approval by the Board.
The Group uses 2 determines a longer-term viability statement alarge number of performance indicators to measure both Taking account of the Groups position and principal operational and financial activity in the business.
Depending on risks, the Directors assess the prospects of the the measure, these are reported and reviewed on a daily, Group and conclude whether they have a reasonable weekly or monthly basis.
In addition, management in the expectation that the Group will be able to continue in business receive weekly and monthly reports of indicators operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over which are the basis of regular operational meetings, where the period of their assessment.
Their conclusions are corrective action is taken if necessary.
At a Group level, set out on page 98. awell-developed management accounts pack, including 3 monitors the Groups risk management and income statement, balance sheet, cash flow statement as internalcontrol systems wellas key ratios is prepared and reviewed monthly by The Board oversees sound risk management and internal management.
As part of the monthly reporting process, control systems.
It carries out a regular review of their areforecast of the current year projections is performed.
effectiveness including reviewing the Groups internal To ensure consistency of reporting, the Group has a global financial controls and the Groups internal control and consolidation system as well as a common accounting risk management.
This monitoring and review covers policies and procedures manual.
Management monitors the all material controls, including financial, operational publication of new reporting standards and works closely and compliance controls.
Their work and conclusions with our external auditors in evaluating their impact, if any.
are described on pages 28 and 80 to 85.
80 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information of the Board, which also retains operational authority Approach to risk management onmatters exceeding agreed thresholds of materiality.
Effective risk management is crucial in helping the Group The Board retains final authority for assessing and achieve its objectives of preserving its overall financial approving the Groups overall risk appetite and sets overall strength for the benefit of all shareholders and other limits which are subject to review annually.
It is assisted by stakeholders and safeguarding its ability to continue as the work of the Audit Committee for oversight and by senior agoing concern while generating sustainable long-term management for day-to-day operational issues, an effective profitability.
Spanning the organisational structure, risk management governance apparatus has been Glencores disciplined approach to risk management and established for the Group.
control originates with strategic responsibility in the hands Risk Management Framework Risk culture Board of Directors Risk strategy and appetite Audit Committee OVERSIGHT Risk governance Tone from the top HSEC Committee Management team executive Risk organisation Group functions INFRASTRUCTURE External disclosure Internal Audit People Process Technology Risk monitoring and reporting HSEC Assurance RISK PROCESS Risk identification Business segments Identify Measure Mitigate Control Report and functions Risk assessment Marketing Industrial HSEC Risk management risk process risk process risk process External Business Sustainability Principal risks and uncertainties Supply & Prices Operating Credit Catastrophes HSEC see pages 28-35 Demand Group functions Risk Management Framework Group functions Risk Management, Compliance, Legal Management engagement andSustainable Development, through their respective The Companys senior management reviews the major expertise, support the Business Risk Owners and senior risksfacing the Group and decides if the level of risk is management in regard to mitigating risk across the Group.
acceptable or whether further steps need to be taken to Internal Audit mitigate these risks.
Together, central and business management set the level of risk appetite by ensuring that Internal Audit, as an independent assurance provider, there is an appropriate balance between the level of risk reviews the risk management process and internal controls assumed and the expected return.
established by the management team.
A risk-based audit approach is applied in order to focus Audit Committee onhigh risk areas during the audit process.
It involves The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing discussions with management on the risks identified in the theriskmanagement system and internal controls.
business risk registers, emerging risks, operational changes, Mandated by the Board, the Audit and HSEC Committees new investments and capital projects.
are responsible for ensuring that the significant risks The key results from this process are reported to the identified are properly managed.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 81 Governance Corporate governance report The CEO, as the central figure of commercial leadership Industrial risk management andcontrol, drives functional risk management policy, We believe that every employee should be accountable for supported by the CFO and CRO, with data and reporting the risks related to their role.
As a result, we encourage our from the central risk team and the other key functional employees to escalate risks not limited to hazards to their units.
In turn the CEO reports to, and seeks authority immediate supervisors.
This enables risks to be tackled limitsfrom the Board, with the main oversight role being andmitigated at an early stage by the team with the relevant performed by the Audit Committee which receives regular level of expertise.
reports from the CRO at its meetings.
It also approves The management teams at each industrial operation are subject to Board confirmation the Group-wide risk profile, responsible for implementing a risk management process and any exceptions to agreed positional thresholds.
that identifies, assesses and manages risk.
At the heart of the risk management regime is the process The risks that may impact on business objectives and plans ofchallenge that takes place between the CEO, the CRO and are maintained in a business risk register.
They include the business heads which sets risk appetite in accordance strategic, compliance, operational and reporting risks.
with Group requirements and market conditions for each commodity.
The objective is to ensure that an appropriate Any significant risks are reported to Management and balance is maintained between the levels of risk assumed theAudit Committee.
A Corporate Risk Management and expected return, which relies on the commodityFramework is implemented on a Group-wide basis to specific expert knowledge provided by business heads.
ensureconsistency in the assessment and reporting of risks.
This is then subject to challenge from the CEO based on hisoverall Group knowledge and experience.
This process HSEC risk management is designed to manage risk effectively while facilitating These risk management processes are operated at asset thefast, commercial decision-making which is required levelsubject to coordination and guidance from the central inadynamic commodity marketing company.
sustainability team and subject to the leadership and Another important consideration of the MR team is the oversight of the HSEC Committee.
challenge of dealing with the impact of large transactional 2015 saw the first full year of the operation of the new flows across many locations.
The function seeks to ensure programme which has been established for the assessment effective supervision by its timely and comprehensive of compliance with leading practices matters of health transaction recording, ongoing monitoring of the andsafety, environment and communities.
transactions and resultant exposures, providing all-encompassing positional reporting, and continually Further information is provided in the report from the assessing universal counterparty credit exposure.
HSEC Committee below and will be published in the Groups Sustainability Report for 2015.
Key focus points Marketing risk management Market Risk limits and reporting Glencores marketing activities are exposed to commodity The MR team provides a wide array of daily weekly price, basis, volatility, foreign exchange, interest rate, reporting.
A daily risk report showing Group Value at creditand performance, liquidity and regulatory risks.
Risk VaR as shown on the next page and various other Glencore devotes significant resources to developing and stress tests and analyses are distributed to the CEO, CFO implementing policies and procedures to identify, monitor and CRO.
Business risk summaries showing positional and manage these risks.
exposure and other relevant metrics, together with potentialmargin call requirements, are also circulated daily.
Glencore has a disciplined and conservative approach to Marketing Risk MR management supported by its flat The MR function works to enhance its stress and scenario testing as well as enhancing measures to capture risk organisational structure.
Glencore continues to adopt and implement policies which are intended to mitigate and exposure within the specific areas of the business, e. g. within metals, concentrate treatment and refining manage commodity price, credit and other related risks.
Glencores MR is managed at individual, business and central level.
Initial responsibility for risk management A recent example of upgrading of reporting is the isprovided by the businesses in accordance with and Agricultural business for which the MR team has complementing their commercial decision-making.
considerably improved the granularity of reporting since A support, challenge and verification role is provided by the integration of Viterra, through the adoption of new thecentral MR function headed by the Chief Risk Officer systems solutions.
The existing VaR sub-limits system CRO via its additional daily risk reporting and analysis hasbeen extended to reflect the greater geographic spread which is split by market and credit risk.
of commercial responsibility within the organisation and now covers nine constituent units.
82 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Value at Risk VaR development $m The Group monitors its commodity price risk exposure 60 by using a VaR computation assessing open commodity 50 positions which are subject to price risks.
VaR is one 40 of the risk measurement techniques the Group uses 30 20 to monitor and limit its primary market exposure 10 related to its physical marketing exposures and related 0 derivative positions.
VaR estimates the potential loss in Jan 2015 Mar 2015 May 2015 Jul 2015 Sep 2015 Nov 2015 value of open positions that could occur as a result of Metals & minerals Energy products Agriculture adverse market movements over a defined time horizon, given a specific level of confidence.
The methodology The Group remains aware of the extent of coverage is a statistically defined, probability based approach ofrisk exposures and their limitations.
In addition, that takes into account market volatilities, as well as VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or risk diversification benefits by recognising offsetting losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by the positions and correlations between commodities and Group, nor are these VaR results considered indicative markets.
In this way, risks can be compared across of future market movements or representative of any allmarkets and commodities and risk exposures can actual impact on its future results.
VaR remains viewed beaggregated to derive a single risk value.
in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of Last year, the Board approved the Audit Committees historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of market illiquidity risks and risks associated with longer $100 million for 2015, consistent with the previous year.
time horizons as well as tail risks.
Recognising these This limit is subject to review and approval on an annual limitations the Group complements and refines this risk basis.
The purpose of this Group limit is to assist senior analysis through the use of stress and scenario analysis.
management in controlling the Groups overall risk The Group regularly back-tests its VaR toestablish profile, within this tolerance threshold.
During 2015 adequacy of accuracy and to facilitate analysis of Glencores average daily VaR was approximately significant differences, if any.
$35 million, with an observed high of $52 million and The Board has again approved the Audit Committees alowof $17 million.
recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of As the chart opposite shows, in 2015 there were $100 million for 2016. nobreaches of the $100 million Group VaR limit.
Credit Risk Management Dealing with obligations arising from regulatory changes The Group continues to make extensive use of credit In 2015 Glencore adapted, as applicable, to increased enhancement tools, seeking letters of credit, insurance cover, regulation including the Dodd-Frank Act and the European discounting and other means of reducing credit risk from Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR which affected counterparts.
In addition, mark-to-market exposures in in particular risk mitigation trade confirmation timeframes, relation to hedging contracts are regularly and substantially portfolio reconciliation, portfolio compression and dispute collateralised primarily with cash pursuant to margining resolution and trade reporting.
agreements in place with such hedge counterparts.
Upcoming new regulatory compliance proposals or The Group-wide Credit Risk Policy governs higher levels obligations include: ofcredit risk exposure, with an established threshold for further obligations under EMIR including mandatory referral of credit decisions by business heads to CFO CEO clearing and margining obligations: relating to unsecured amounts in excess of $75 million withBBB or lower rated counterparts.
At lower levels of FMIA Swiss regulatory framework for OTC derivatives materiality, decisions may be taken by the business heads and MIFID II, position management and reporting where key strategic transactions or established relationships commodity swap transactions : suggest that an open account exposure may be warranted.
the Market Abuse Regulation MAR : and Systems and reporting Regulation on Energy Market Integrity and Transparency Whilst no single trading system that the Group can identify REMIT.
appears able to manage the broad range of requirements that the different business profiles of the Group would placeon it, interfacing with multiple source systems and transferring data from one to another create enhanced risk to data integrity, granularity, consistency and timeliness.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 83 Governance Corporate governance report The impacts of these and other new regulations to arrangements.
In particular in 2015 the following were commodity market participants is potentially considerable.
undertaken: For Glencore, this will largely be an additional compliance a presentation and investor roadshow was held in burden with the associated costs, rather than an expectation Mayto provide a detailed account of the Companys of practical commercial hindrances.
Glencores compliance, sustainability policies and plans.
Led by the chairman finance, IT and risk teams continue to work together in ofthe HSEC committee, presentations were also given monitoring and advising management on bythe Chairman and the CEO: and thesedevelopments.
the Chairman and Company Secretary met with Internal Audit alarge number of institutional shareholders in the summer, andseparately in the autumn following the Glencore has a dedicated Internal Audit function reporting announcement of the debt reduction programme.
directly to the Audit Committee.
The role of Internal Auditis to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk The Board receives regular updates from the Companys management, control, and business governance processes.
Head of Strategy on the views of shareholders through a briefing, which is a standing agenda item for allBoard Internal Audit reviews areas of potential risk within meetings, which is supplemented by input from the thebusiness and suggests control solutions to mitigate Chairman, CEO, CFO and, if applicable, the Senior exposures identified.
The Audit Committee considers and Independent Director.
approves the risk-based audit plan, areas of audit focus and resources and is regularly updated on audits performed and AGM relevant findings, as well as the progress on implementing the actions arising.
In particular, the Committee considered The Companys next AGM is due to be held in Zug on Internal Audits high priority issues with a particular focus 19 May 2016.
Full details of the meeting will be set out in on procurement and systems, its KPIs and the effectiveness theNotice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders and timeliness of managements responses to its findings.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged tovote by proxy as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the All documents relating to the AGM will be available Internal Audit function.
As part of this work, it considered ontheCompanys website at: www.
com the functions management framework and its improvement programme.
Relationships with shareholders The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the Group in communications with shareholders and believes that being transparent in describing how we see the market and the prospects for the business as extremely important.
We communicate with shareholders in a number of different ways.
The formal reporting of our fulland half-year results and quarterly production reports is achieved through a combination of releases, presentations, group calls and one to one meetings.
The fulland half-year reporting is followed by investor meetings in a variety of locations where we have institutional shareholders.
We also regularly meet with existing and prospective shareholders to update or to introduce them to the Company and periodically arrange visits to parts ofthe business to give analysts and major shareholders a better understanding of how we manage our operations.
These visits and meetings are principally undertaken by the CEO, CFO and Head of Investor Relations and an array of business heads.
In addition, many major shareholders have meetings withthe Chairman and appropriate senior personnel of the Group including other Non-Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Head of Sustainability.
In addition, Peter Grauer, the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately from these 84 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information reviewing the Groups financial and accounting policies Audit Committee report and practices including discussing material issues with management and the external auditors, especially matters Chairman that influence or could affect the presentation of accounts Leonhard Fischer and key figures: Other members considering applicable regulatory changes to Peter Grauer reporting obligations: William Macaulay evaluating the effectiveness of the external auditors: All members served throughout the year.
All are considered recommending to the Board a resolution to be put to to be Independent Non-Executive Directors and deemed to the shareholders for their approval on the appointment be financially literate by virtue of their business experience.
of the external auditors and to authorise the Board to Additionally, all Committee members are considered by the fix the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience and external auditors: have competence in accounting.
The Committee held four scheduled meetings during the year which all the monitoring the independence of the external auditor and Committee members attended.
John Burton is Secretary reviewing the operation of the Companys policy for the tothe Committee.
provision of non-audit services by it: considering and approving two assignments above the Governance processes approval threshold with the external auditors in respect of The Audit Committee usually invites the CEO, CFO, Group non-audit services: Financial Controller, CRO and Head of Internal Audit and considering the output from the Group-wide processes the lead partner from the external auditors to attend each used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, including meeting.
Other members of management and external credit and performance risks across the industrial and auditors may attend as andwhen required.
Other Directors, marketing activities: and sometimes all other Directors, also attend its meetings.
The Committee also holds private sessions with the external considering the scope and methodologies to determine auditors andthe Head of Internal Audit without members of theCompanys Going concern and Longer-term management being present.
The Committee has adopted viability statements: guidelines allowing non-audit services to be contracted reviewing the Internal Audit Departments annual audit withthe external auditors on the basis as set out below.
plan and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: Role, responsibilities and main activities The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencores theBoard in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to internal controls for which there were no significant financial reporting, external and internal audit, risk failings or weaknesses noted: and management and controls.
reviewing reports on the operation of the Groups During the year, the Committees principal work included legal compliance programme, including material the following: notifications under the Groups Raising Concerns whistleblowing programme.
reviewing Glencores internal financial and compliance controls and internal controls and risk Risk analysis management systems: The Committee receives reports and presentations at reviewing and agreeing the preparation and scope of the itsmeetings on our management of marketing and other year-end reporting process: risks excluding sustainability risks which are reviewed by the HSEC Committee.
determining the global audit plan, scope and fees of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors: evaluating the Groups procedures for ensuring that the Annual Report and accounts, taken asawhole, are fair, balanced and understandable: reviewing the full-year audited, and half-year unaudited, financial statements with management andthe external auditors: Glencore Annual Report 2015 85 Governance Corporate governance report taxation risks, especially concerning transfer pricing Significant issues related to the financial statements andrecognition ofdeferred income tax assets.
The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management Internal Audit havemade appropriate estimates and judgements.
The Committee monitored the internal audit function as They alsoreview external auditors reports outlining described under Internal Audit on page 84. auditwork performed and conclusions reached in respect ofkey judgements, as well as identifying any issues in External Audit respect ofthese.
The Committee has evaluated the effectiveness of the During the year, the most significant issues for the external auditor and as part of this assessment, has Committee concerned impairment analysis.
considered: The Committee considered whether the carrying value of the steps taken by the auditors to ensure their objectivity goodwill, industrial assets, physical trade positions and and independence: material loans and advances may be impaired as a result of sustained falls in commodity prices and some asset specific the deep knowledge of the Company which enhances factors.
We reviewed managements reports, outlining the Deloittes ability to perform as external auditor: basis for the key assumptions used in calculating the competence when handling key accounting and audit recoverable value for the Groups assets.
Future performance judgements and ability to communicate these to the assumptions used are derived from the Board approved Committee and management: business plan.
As part of the process for approval of this plan, the Committee considered the feasibility of strategic the extent of the auditors resources and technical plans underpinning future performance expectations, and capability to deliver a robust and timely audit including whether they remain achievable.
Considerable focus was consideration of the qualifications and expertise of applied to managements commodity price and exchange the team: rate assumptions.
The Committee discussed with the auditors performance and progress against the agreed external auditors their work in respect of impairment audit plan, including communication of changes to the review, which was the most significant area of audit focus plan and identified risks: and for them.
the proven stability that is gained from the continued These impairment analyses focused in particular on: engagement of Deloitte as external auditor.
Oil exploration assets in Chad: The Committee assesses the quality and effectiveness of Copper assets in Africa, particularly following the theexternal audit process on an annual basis in conjunction temporary production curtailments: with the senior management team.
Key areas of focus include consideration of the quality and robustness of the the Groups main coal assets: audit, identification of and response to areas of risk and the Zinc assets in Australia: experience and expertise of the audit team, including the lead audit partner.
Nickel assets, particularly Koniambo: Aluminium assets, including Century: and Provision of non-audit services by the external auditor The Groups policy on non-audit services provided by the goodwill relating to the Pacorini warehousing business.
external auditor is designed to ensure the external auditor The other main areas of analysis have been: independence and objectivity is safeguarded.
A specified wide range of services may not be provided as they have capital preservation and debt reduction programme, in thepotential to impair the external auditors independence particular the Antamina metal streaming transaction: Excluded Services.
The Audit Committees approval whether the Groups accounting for the fair value of isrequired for 1 any Excluded Service 2 any other basemetal differentials is appropriate: engagement where either i the fee is contingent, ii the fee may exceed $500,000, or iii where the fees for all non-audit judgement required to fair value the Groups physical work may exceed $15 million.
Subject to these restrictions forward contracts: and other safeguards in the policy, the external auditors significant loan exposures: may be permitted to provide certain non-audit services when it is concluded that they are the most appropriate Group restructurings: supplier due to efficiency and status as a leading firm for robust assessment of principal risks and impact on longerthose specific services.
For 2015, fees paid to the external term viability: and auditors were $31 million, the total non-audit fees of which 86 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information were $6 million: further details are contained in note 28 Nomination Committee tothe financial statements.
Chairman Reappointment of the external auditor Peter Grauer Deloitte has been the auditor of the listed entity since its IPOin 2011.
The most recent lead audit engagement partner Other members rotation occurred prior to the financial year ended John Mack 31 December 2013 when Mr Matthew Sheerin replaced Leonhard Fischer MrDavid Quinlin as the lead audit engagement partner.
All members served on the Committee throughout the year.
The Board and the Audit Committee acknowledge the The Committee only comprises Independent Non-Executive importance of, and greater investor scrutiny in respect of, Directors.
The Committee met twice during the year and atendering policy for the appointment of external auditors.
The Board and the Audit Committee also notethe current requirements of the Code, and legislative changes Roles and responsibilities concerning mandatory audit rotation.
The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are Taking into account the recent major changes to the Group to assist the Board with succession planning and with the over the past few years, the recent partner rotation and the selection process for the appointment of new Directors, transitional arrangements, the Audit Committee concluded bothExecutive and Non-Executive, including the Chairman.
that it was appropriate not to tender at the current time.
This involves: The Committee has determined that it is satisfied that the evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and work of Deloitte LLP is effective, the scope is appropriate experience of the Board and identifying the capabilities and significant judgements have been challenged robustly required for a particular appointment: by the lead partner and team.
Additionally, there are no overseeing the search process: and contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of external auditor.
The Committee has therefore recommended evaluating the need for Board refreshment and succession totheBoard that a proposal be put to shareholders at planning generally.
the2016AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP Main activities asexternalauditor.
The Committee focused on two main tasks during this Leonhard Fischer year.
Firstly, prior to the notice of 2015 AGM being compiled, Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee considered the performance of each Director.
It concluded that each Director is effective in their role and 7 March 2016 continues to demonstrate the commitment required to remain on the Board.
Accordingly, it recommended to the Board that re-election resolutions be put for each Director atthe 2015 AGM.
Secondly, the Committee considered the composition of theBoard and refreshment.
It was agreed that a further appointment would be beneficial and a search process has been commenced.
It is part of the Committees policy when making new Board appointments to consider the importance of diversity on the Board, including gender.
This is considered in conjunction with experience specific to the business of the Company, thenecessary qualifications required, whilst ensuring no disqualifying conflict of interest is present.
External consultancy Spencer Stuart has been retained forthe above search mandate.
Peter Grauer Chairman of the Nomination Committee 7 March 2016 Glencore Annual Report 2015 87 Governance Corporate governance report Health, Safety, Environment & Communities Main activities HSEC Committee During the year, the Committee: reviewed and approved the Groups HSEC strategy: Chairman provided ongoing monitoring of catastrophic Peter Coates hazard management: Other members oversaw the Crisis and Emergency Management Policy: Ivan Glasenberg commenced a re-evaluation of safety and effectiveness Anthony Hayward oftailings dams across the Group: Patrice Merrin considered the Groups position on climate change: The Committee met five times during the year.
Each Committee member served throughout the year and continued its work on reducing fatalities, especially at attended all of the meetings.
Every meeting had a the higher risk focus assets.
For this purpose it received substantial agenda, reflecting the Committees objective a report on, reviewed and made recommendations in ofproviding leadership for the Group in continuing to respect of, each fatality: achieve improved HSEC performance.
continued the implementation of the SafeWork programme focusing on identification of fatal hazards Role and responsibilities andan appropriate safety culture: The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: oversaw an introduction of the Groups revamped internal ensure that appropriate Group policies are developed assurance programme for sustainability matters with in line with our Values and Code of Conduct for the an emphasis on catastrophic hazards and approved the identification and management of current and emerging assurance plan for 2016: health, safety, environmental and community risks: oversaw the launch of a social value creation scorecard: ensure that the policies are effectively communicated throughout the Company and that appropriate processes undertook site visits: and procedures are developed at operational level to reviewed and oversaw the substantial upgrading of the comply with these policies: Groups sustainability report: evaluate the effectiveness of policy implementation and reviewed the current corporate practice framework for HSEC risk management through: the Group, approved ongoing changes and reviewed their assessment of operational performance: implementation and practice: review of recent internal and external reports: and oversaw the introduction of new corporate HSEC policies: independent audits and reviews of performance in considered engagement with NGOs on regard to HSEC matters, and action plans developed sustainability matters: by management in response to issues raised: held an investor roadshow to inform and receive feedback evaluate and oversee the quality and integrity of any on the Companys sustainable development strategy and reporting to external stakeholders concerning HSEC approach to HSEC management: and matters: and considered a variety of other material HSEC issues such report to the full Board.
as resettlement programmes, incident reporting and health strategy.
Peter Coates Chairman of the HSEC Committee 7 March 2016 88 Glencore Annual Report 2015
