Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Senior Independent Director SID succession Nominations Committee Report Sir Deryck Maughan has brought his own style to the role of SID, discharging its responsibilities with great diligence including leading and concluding the recent Chairman succession search process.
We were pleased that Sir Deryck agreed to further extend his tenure on the Board to step down at the AGM in May 2016.
He brings continuity to the Boards composition, given his significant knowledge of, and experience in, GSKs business affairs.
In a period of significant change to the Boards Philip Hampton membership, Sir Deryck has helped to facilitate the transition Nominations Committee between Sir Christopher and myself.
Chairman In addition, as a Committee member, he has helped in the search and recruitment of his successor, as SID.
The Committee was Dear Shareholder pleased to recommend to the Board the appointment of Vindi One of the first key priorities when I joined the Board at the start Banga as SID designate.
Vindi joined the Board in September of the year was to succeed Sir Christopher Gent as Nominations 2015 and was appointed to the same Committees as Sir Deryck Committee Chairman.
Last year was a year of significant transition in January 2016 Nominations, Audit & Risk and Remuneration.
and this meant that I could focus immediately on tailoring the They are working closely together to ensure a smooth transition.
refreshment of the Board in line with the: Vindi will succeed Sir Deryck as SID at the conclusion of the AGM on 5 May 2016. agreed principles and actions set out in Dr Tracy Longs 2014 external evaluation review: and scientific and Medical Expert SME succession Dr Daniel Podolsky has served as the Boards US-based requirements of the reshaped Group to create and maximise the designated SME with great distinction during his tenure on the long-term value of the Novartis transaction to shareholders.
He will be stepping down from the Board as planned at the The Nominations Committee the Committee has had a busy year 2016 AGM after serving nine years.
After commencing the search and has made good progress towards its aim of first considering for his successor in this highly specialist role at the beginning of Board size and composition and then replacing a number of the year, the Committee was pleased to recommend to the Board planned retirements for Non-Executive Board members and the appointment of Dr Jesse Goodman as a Non-Executive addressing identied skills gaps.
The Committee has also focused Director and SME.
He joined the Board in January 2016 and on effective management succession of executive management.
was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee with Progress in respect of these elements is set out below.
Board size and composition Further details on the role criteria and recruitment process for A central element of the current Board refreshment programme the SID and SME roles and rationale behind the Committee was the consideration of the most appropriate size and recommending Vindi Banga and Dr Jesse Goodmans composition for the Board given the scale, complexity and appointments is given on page 96. strategic positioning of the business.
In performing this analysis, Committee membership the Committee used an enhanced Board competence and Lynn Elsenhans was appointed to the Committee in January 2015 experience matrix linked to the companys strategy and underpins to join me and Judy Lewent as newer appointees to ensure the the Board refreshment programme.
We are making good progress Committee achieved a good balance between longer serving in identifying an ideal future size of the Board, which is likely to see Committee members and newer appointees to support shaping a reduction in the second half of 2016.
As part of this analysis, the the Board for the longer term.
I was also grateful to Sir Christopher Committee has also factored the increased target of 33% size in for sharing his insights and deep understanding of the evolution female representation by 2020 as outlined by Lord Davies in his of the Board, its culture and composition during the period of his final Women on Boards report published in October 2015. stewardship.
CEO and management succession The Committees key focus in 2016 will be the progression of our The Committee has continued to scrutinise the robustness of management succession plans working in collaboration with the succession planning arrangements for the Executive Directors and CEO.
In addition, we will continue to refresh the non-executive each executive management role, together with the adequacy of representation on the Board with the aim of reducing the overall the pipeline of leadership talent below the CET.
After what will Board size to around twelve members.
have been nearly 10 years as CEO, Sir Andrew has indicated to the Board his intention to retire from the company in early 2017.
The Board has agreed that he will retire on 31 March 2017.
The Committee will now start a formal search for a successor and will consider internal and external candidates for the role.
To that end, Philip Hampton Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry have been engaged.
Nominations Committee Chairman 16 March 2016 GSK Annual Report 2015 95
