NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Mike Turner CBE Chairman of the Nominations Committee Dear Shareholder The appointment and retention of strong Board candidates is key to the success of the Company.
The Nominations Committee plays a vital role in ensuring the selection and recommendation of strong candidates for appointment to the Board.
We keep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the composition of Board committees, with any changes recommended to the Board for its consideration.
We also review succession planning, both to the Chief Executive and other executive Director positions.
Mike Turner Chairman Committee membership Angus Cockburn Tufan Erginbilgic Shonaid Jemmett-Page Richard Parry-Jones Nigel Stein In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the majority of members are independent non-executive Directors.
The Secretary to the Committee is Jos Sclater, General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Committee met four times in 2015.
Our attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 63.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to lead the process for identifying, and making Role recommendations to the Board on, candidates for appointment as Directors and as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also: makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nominations Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit & Risk and Remuneration Committees keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, ethnicity and gender and the independence of the non-executive Directors and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Nominations Committee follows Board-approved procedures in making its recommendations.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibilities are available on our website at www.
GKN plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 During the year the Groups diversity initiative, which aims to 2015 activities develop and support our executive pipeline with regard to During 2015 we: diversity, was rolled out across the Group.
In order to gain greater visibility of our challenges and progress, gender diversity was reviewed the composition of the Board and the organisational added as a Group key performance indicator.
The Board will succession plan following the resignation of Andrew Reynolds receive updates on this measure throughout the year.
Further Smith as Chief Executive Automotive information can be found in the sustainability report on page 51 considered and recommended new appointments to the Board and the Groups key performance indicators can be found on as a result of this review pages 11 to 13. recommended to the Board a three-year extension of terms of office for Mike Turner and Angus Cockburn.
Advice provided to the Committee From time to time the Committee appoints external search Board and Committee composition consultants to assist with the selection and recruitment of In light of Andrew Reynolds Smiths departure from the Company potential new Board members.
During the year no such assistance in September 2015, we considered the subsequent composition was required.
of the Board and its balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
Recognising the importance of maintaining a balanced Board and the value of detailed industry and operational experience in Board Performance evaluation discussion on the Groups principal businesses, the Committee The Committees annual evaluation was carried out as part of a recommended to the Board that Kevin Cummings, Chief Executive series of one-to-one interviews between the Company Secretary and GKN Aerospace, and Phil Swash, Chief Executive GKN Driveline, each Director.
No changes were considered necessary to the be appointed to the Board with effect from January 2016.
The Committees terms of reference as a result, and the Committee was Board approved this recommendation.
considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2015.
On behalf of the Committee Executive matters Following the appointment of Phil Swash, latterly Chief Executive GKN Land Systems, as Chief Executive GKN Driveline in September 2015, the Committee reviewed and approved a proposal to transfer executive responsibility for GKN Land Systems to Adam Walker, in addition to his role as Group Finance Director, noting Mike Turner CBE the benefit to him of gaining divisional operational experience Chairman of the Nominations Committee within the Group.
22 February 2016 Non-executive matters During the year, the Committee considered the extension of the term of appointment of Angus Cockburn.
Taking into account his contribution to the Board and its committees, the Committee recommended to the Board the extension of his term for a further three years.
The Board approved this recommendation.
The Committee also considered the extension of my term of appointment and recommended to the Board the extension of my term for a further three years.
I was not present at either meeting for the discussion and decision on this matter.
Diversity Diversity is an area in which we recognise we have to improve.
We acknowledge the importance of diversity in all forms, both on the Board and throughout the Group.
Our aim is for the Board to consist of people with diverse experience who can add real value to Board debates, thereby supporting the achievement of our strategic objectives.
This includes diversity of industry skills, knowledge and experience in addition to gender and ethnicity.
Our aim is for women to make up at least 25% of Board members and we will continue to work towards this.
However, our overriding policy in any new appointment is to select on merit, in fulfilment of our role of ensuring the continued success of the Company.
GKN plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
