AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Committee report for During 2015 we completed a formal tender exercise for the 2015.
The Committee plays a crucial role in ensuring the integrity external audit contract.
We concluded the process towards the of the Groups financial statements and monitoring aspects of end of 2015, recommending to the Board the appointment of management and auditor conduct which could financially impact Deloitte LLP.
The Board approved this recommendation and shareholders.
Our report sets out what we did during the year to Deloittes appointment as external auditors will be proposed safeguard shareholders interests.
to shareholders at the 2016 annual general meeting AGM.
More information on the tender process can be found on pages 74 It was a busy year for the Committee, reflecting the increasing focus and 75. both internally and externally on areas within the Committees remit such as risk management assurance and auditor rotation.
During the year, we received updates on developments in corporate governance, including the implications of new regulations requiring a Recognising the importance of a strong assurance framework for viability statement and the Groups activities on cyber security, as managing risk, and noting changes to the FRCs UK Corporate well as amending our terms of reference to reflect our expanded Governance Code and risk management guidance, during the year remit.
We also received updates from divisional finance directors in the Board expanded the Committees remit to include greater respect of their businesses and the risks associated with their responsibility in this area.
While the Board retains ultimate operations.
responsibility for setting the Groups risk appetite and maintaining sound systems of risk management and internal Looking ahead to 2016, we plan to expand our focus on risk control, the Committees role was expanded to include the review management to receive reports on the systems in place for of the systems and controls in place to manage the Groups managing risks in respect of the supply chain and export control, principal risks and to report to the Board on those reviews.
In which is particularly relevant in GKN Aerospace.
We will also 2015, we focused on the systems in place and development oversee the handover from the current auditors to Deloitte LLP to activities in respect of quality, programme management and ensure a smooth transition.
contract management identified as increasing risks in 2015 and reported to the Board on the output.
The Boards report in relation to principal risks can be found on pages 38 to 47.
GKN plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
