54 Corporate Governance Statement Adding Value Through Strong The chart below shows the length of Following the performance evaluation Governance time our Non-Executive Directors, described on page 57, the Board Our business success depends on including the Chairman, have confirms that all the Directors continue having strong corporate governance.
been members of our Board.
This to be effective and to demonstrate The Boards decisions are critical to demonstrates that the Board continues their commitment to their roles.
the Groups future, from approving to have a good mix of well-established and monitoring our strategy to and newer Non-Executive Directors.
Board Roles and Responsibilities the way we identify, monitor and To ensure we have clear responsibilities manage risks.
We therefore look to Board Tenure at the top of the Company, the Board ensure that the Board has the right has set out well-defined roles for 6 to 9 years 2 mix of skills and experience, that it the Chairman and Chief Executive.
3 to 6 years 1 has a deep understanding of the These, along with the responsibilities 1 to 3 years 2 Group and that its members work of our Senior Independent Director, well together, in a spirit of openness are summarised in the table below.
The blend of our Non-Executive Directors general experience and Some issues and decisions are so This section explains our corporate areas of expertise, together with important that only the Board as governance approach, including their depth of knowledge about the a whole can consider them.
The how we structure the Board and Groups operations, result in an evenBoard is therefore responsible for: its Committees, its oversight of the handed oversight of the business approving and monitoring our Group, and its performance and main and its growth strategy.
This balance strategy: allows the Board to operate in a activities during the financial year.
approving our corporate goals: constructive and focused manner.
reviewing our operational Who is on the Board?
performance against these goals: At the date of this report, the Board As required by the UK Corporate approving the corporate budget Governance Code, all the Directors had a large majority of independent and ensuring we have the right Non-Executive Directors.
will offer themselves for election funding: at the next AGM, details of which approving material contracts: An Independent Board can be found in the Notice of approving material acquisitions and AGM at the end of this report.
investments: and reporting to shareholders.
2 Title Individual s Responsibilities Chairman Bob Lawson As Chairman, Bobs primary responsibility is to lead the Board and ensure its effective operation.
This is achieved in part through 4 promoting an open culture, with the courage to challenge the status quo.
Bob is also 1 responsible for communications between the Board and shareholders.
Chief Executive Karim Bitar Karim is responsible for managing the Companys day-to-day operations and is Executive Directors accountable to the Board for the Companys Independent Non-Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors development, consistent with its strategy and with due regard for the risks, objectives and policies set out by the Board and its As noted in our 2014 Annual Report, Committees.
Lykele van der Broek joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Nigel Turner Nigel is responsible for providing a sounding on 1 July 2014 and Professor Barry Director board for the Chairman and acting as an Furr retired as a Non-Executive alternative line of communication between Director at the conclusion of the the Chairman and other Directors.
He leads AGM on 14 November 2014, after meetings of the Non-Executive Directors in eight years on the Board.
There the Chairmans absence and consults with were no other changes to Board shareholders in the absence of the Chairman membership during the financial year.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 N O E I E T T A T R I E M N M U O M C E R E C E O T T M T I C I M D S M I U R T M A T E O E C STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 55 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Board Structure During 2015, Professor Duncan Maskell The diagram below shows the Board and the Committees that report to it.
joined the R&D PMT as a regular member and Board representative.
Professor Maskell brings to the team his years of experience as an innovation leader in animal agriculture.
The R&D PMTs other members include Dr Jonathan Lightner, Chief Scientific Officer, key R&D personnel and other key GELT members.
Gives us a comprehensive Ensures the integrity of our view of our R&D financial reporting evaluates programme and involves our risk management and The R&D PMTs meetings during our business units in internal control system, and the year were held in Chicago and prioritising our oversees the internal and Edinburgh.
As part of the Edinburgh R&D initiatives.
meeting, the team joined our collaborators at the Roslin Institute for an update on the progress of Determines our key collaboration projects.
Leads our strategic remuneration for our delivery and ensures Executive Directors and Genus plc The R&D PMTs principal organisational alignment, senior management, Board responsibilities are to periodically: engagement and to support our growth ecient execution.
strategy and deliver review and prioritise the Companys value for stakeholders.
investment in research, development and technology: assess the quality and competitiveness of the Companys Ensures that the Group Reviews the Boards R&D pipeline, including considering continues to engage in structure, size and their risk profiles: business in a socially composition and oversee and encourage the ideation responsible and proposes candidates ethical manner.
for appointment to management process: and the Board.
approve patent and other IP strategies for new technologies, based on business and technical opportunities.
R&D PMT Special Focus Areas in 2015 Board Committees In addition to the standing agenda Executive Committees items, in 2015 the R&D PMT reviewed two strategic proposals: The table below shows membership of the Board Committees: a comprehensive revision of our overarching IP strategy and Committee approach, before its presentation to Director Audit Nomination Remuneration the Board: and a proposal for managing R&D Bob Lawson C M project progression through stage Karim Bitar M gates, into advanced development.
Stephen Wilson Board Skills and Experience Nigel Turner M M C Genus operates in a complex and evolving global business environment.
Mike Buzzacott C M M To lead us effectively, the Board must Duncan Maskell M M M have the skills and experience to manage the associated challenges.
Lykele van der Broek M M M Almost all our Directors have held M Committee memberC Committee Chairman leadership positions in international The Committee Chairmen are The Board delegates operating companies, with several having responsible for overseeing activities decisions to the Chief Executive, run businesses overseas.
Nearly within the relevant terms of reference, Group Finance Director and half our Directors have strong and for the Committees leadership other members of GELT.
GELTs backgrounds in scientific research and effective operation.
More responsibilities and membership or in leading science-based information about the roles and are set out on pages 52 and 53. businesses, while the same number work of the Audit, Remuneration and has significant financial experience.
Nomination Committees can be found R&D Portfolio Management Team in their statements on pages 60 to The R&D Portfolio Management 82 and in their terms of reference on Team R&D PMT meets twice a our website at www.
The R&D PMT provides a forum for prioritising our R&D initiatives, monitoring their progress and assessing the quality of our R&D infrastructure, personnel and pipeline.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 M A O E N I T L C O O T O M F N M I T E M N R I M A O T E T T P I G E O D E A & N N R A M M E A V I E T T U P C I E H X S E R S E U D N A E E G L 56 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Boards main activities during the year are set out below.
Leadership Business Development and Strategy Induction process for Duncan Held a strategic meeting with GELT Visited Brazil see opposite to Maskell and Lykele van der Broek see page 57. better understand the business US and Brazil Reviewed and approved business operations and environment.
Spencer Stuart corporate development opportunities, such as: Reviewed and approved US legal governance updates.
In Vitro Brazil SA IVB 51% proceedings against the current Review of Board workings, acquisition: provider of sorted semen including its skill set and relevance Riverstone, the first commercial see note 7. to the direction of Company, and multiplier in China: and Updated on Gntiporc and IVB commitment to reviewing NonBirchwood Genetics.
Executive Director succession planning at least annually.
Board effectiveness evaluation, conducted through questionnaires, one-to-one calls with the Chairman and Board discussion.
A Broad Base of Relevant Experience Non-Executive Inductions International business 6 During the year, Duncan Maskell and Lykele van der Broek underwent scientific biotech 3 comprehensive inductions.
These included: A visit to our US business in January 2015.
This covered a tour of our Finance 3 facilities in DeForest and Dekorra: a series of presentations from our Genus ABS and Genus PIC teams, led by their Chief Operating Officers: Number of Directors presentations on our approach to R&D, and a tour of our facilities: and visits to a number of PIC and ABS customers.
Board Diversity Workshops run by Spencer Stuart, covering Board behaviour, Board As Genus grows, the Board must strategy, and Board and Committee meetings.
While we Ad hoc updates on the latest developments in corporate governance and consider diversity in its broadest updates to the Corporate Governance Code.
These were provided by sense when recruiting, our aim internal and external presenters.
is to ensure that the Board has the right skills to manage the In addition, both Non-Executive Directors attended the Board visit to Brazil evolving nature of the business.
Board Induction and Training We also want to ensure that the Board as a whole has first-hand experience of A good induction is a key part of key areas of our business and markets, so we include an annual site visit in the ensuring new Board members can fully Board calendar.
In 2015, the Board visited operations in Brazil see opposite.
contribute, so we get the most benefit from their experience.
Our induction The Boards Activities During the Year programme has three main elements: The table below shows how many Board and Committee meetings each Director helping our Board members to attended during the year.
conduct themselves effectively, through a course run by Spencer Audit Remuneration Nomination Stuart, one of the worlds leading Board Committee Committee Committee global executive search and leadership consulting firms: Non-Executive Chairman ensuring our Directors understand Bob Lawson 9 9 5 5 5 n a the legal and regulatory aspects of Executive Directors being a Board member, and how to Karim Bitar 9 9 5 5 n a maintain their independence: and Stephen Wilson 9 9 5 5 n a an introduction to our business, through site visits and meetings Non-Executive Directors with our management teams.
Nigel Turner 9 9 5 5 5 5 n a Mike Buzzacott 9 9 5 5 5 5 n a Barry Furr retired 14 11 14 3 3 2 2 2 2 n a Duncan Maskell 8 9 5 5 5 5 n a Lykele van der Broek 9 9 5 5 5 5 n a Note: Figures in brackets are the maximum number of Board or Committee meetings the Director could haveattended.
Attended day one of the two day January 2015 Board meeting.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 57 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Research and Development Company Performance Employees Received regular updates on R&D Received updates on the Reviewed and monitored the developments, new initiatives and operational performance of the Companys health and safety potential collaborations.
business and market conditions for performance monthly written each division.
Carefully monitored the Groups Received updates on the global performance against its goals.
staff survey results and follow upactions.
Received updates on succession planning at GELT level and below.
Received updates on key personnel appointments, assignments and developments across the Group.
All Non-Executive Directors completed Board Visit to Brazil the performance and effectiveness In May 2015, the Board spent a week visiting our operations in Brazil.
This questionnaire, and responses were included meeting the senior management of our local Genus businesses, combined on an anonymous basis, visiting IVBs laboratories and meeting its leadership team, and meeting the then shared with the Board.
In management of Agroceres PIC, our 49% JV in Brazil.
In addition, the Board addition, the Chairman interviewed all met a number of Brazilian bovine and porcine customers.
of the Directors to discuss individual training needs and overall Board The visit was designed to enhance the Boards understanding of our local effectiveness.
The aggregated business, its operations on the ground, the markets and our key relationships, responses from the anonymous as well as Brazils contribution to global protein production.
The meetings with questionnaires and individual Director several of our largest customers in the region gave the Board insight into feedback allowed the Chairman to customer perspectives of Genus and the drivers of their purchasing decisions.
lead the performance evaluation and The visit was also motivating for our local management, enabling them to effectiveness review at the Board.
engage with the Board at a local level.
The performance of the Chairman Board Strategy Review We assess the Boards effectiveness was evaluated by the Senior One of the Boards key responsibilities over a three-year cycle, using a mixture Independent Director, through is to review, approve and monitor of internal and external evaluations.
discussions with the other Nonour strategy.
To understand how Executive Directors.
The evaluation well our strategy is working and to allowed the Senior Independent Year 1 ensure it remains appropriate, the Director to discuss with the Chairman External Board effectiveness review Board holds an annual strategy review his performance during the year.
produces an action plan for areas of each January.
Relevant members focus of GELT present to the Board on The Reviews Conclusions their business unit or function.
The review concluded that the Board has: Year 2 At this years review, the Board was an open and candid culture, that Follow-up questionnaires by same taken through: encouraged challenge of the status external evaluation consultant, to a review of global industry trends quo: monitor progress with the focus and Genuss markets: high integrity individuals, with areas an update on each business units complementary skills: and progress against the four elements highly engaged individuals, who of the strategy we first set out in were committed to excellence.
Year 3 2012: and Internal questionnaires and an update on each business units The review also identified the interviews with the Chairman plans over the next two to five following as areas of focus for 2016: years.
continued oversight of competitor This was the third year of our review activity: cycle.
The evaluation process Board Effectiveness Review further training in corporate therefore consisted of anonymous Effective leadership is integral to the governance: questionnaires, follow-up telephone execution of the Companys strategy further exposure to the science that conversations between the Chairman and therefore to the fulfilment underpins our R&D programmes: and Board members, and an open of its objectives.
The Board is and discussion of the evaluation results committed to ensuring the Company further focus on succession prepared at the end of this process.
operates in accordance with the planning and gender diversity.
highest standards of governance, in order to promote its success for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 58 Corporate Governance Statement continued Progress Against 2014 15 Areas of Focus Last years Board effectiveness review identified a number of areas for the Board to consider this year.
The table below shows our progress against these objectives.
Focus area Progress Sharper focus on technology across the Board, both in R&D and Coverage of the R&D portfolio was included in the Boards the use of technology in commercial sales.
January strategy session and Duncan Maskell joined the R&D PMT see page 55.
The Board was updated on competitor profiles during the January strategy session.
Competitors ongoing activities are monitored through our business development team and relevant activities are periodically reported to the Board.
Consideration of how risk is disclosed and considered through Internal audit regularly updates the Audit Committee on the the Audit Committee and through the Board.
Private sessions between the Audit Committee, internal audit and the external auditor have been initiated.
The roll-out of whistleblowing policy refresher training and the establishment of a whistleblowing hotline, to ensure there is an anonymous line of communication for the indentification of Group risks.
Consideration of communications with shareholders and other In May, GELT conducted an Investor Day in London outlining external stakeholders.
the Companys strategy and direction as described further on page 59.
Regular meetings were organised between the CEO, CFO and institutional investors private client brokers, to discuss the Companys strategy and progress.
An extensive shareholder consultation process was undertaken by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Chairman of the Board, in connection with approving the 2014 share schemes and our remuneration policy.
The Companys AGM was held in November 2014, to outline the Groups performance.
Consideration of other skill sets required by the Board, such as Duncan Maskell and Lykele van fide Broek joined the Board in diversity, agri-business and international markets.
summer 2014, bringing considerable scientific, agri-business and international markets expertise to the Board.
Business induction plans were performed for the new Directors, as described on page 56.
Risk Management and Internal The Board continued its programme The review covered our internal Control audit programme and the reports of visits to our local operations and The Board is responsible for our risk received regular political, economic our management prepared when management system and for reviewing the Board approved our interim and industry risk updates from the our controls and risk mitigations.
The Board and final reports, and financial statements.
It also assessed: also sought regular updates on a The risk management system is number of specific risks during the whether we had identified, designed to identify, evaluate and evaluated, managed and controlled year, including the Groups work on its: prioritise the risks and uncertainties emerging market strategy, in significant risks: and we face, and applies to the Board, whether any significant weaknesses particular, progress in China and the Audit Committee, GELT, our Russia: had arisen, and if so, whether we businesses and our divisional had addressed them.
Genus Sexed Semen GSS project, business reviews.
Our principal risks particularly in light of the litigation and our mitigations for them are The assessment also took into the Group initiated, as detailed in summarised on pages 18 and 19. note 7: and account any risk or control issues we identified through our divisional acquisition and integration of companies.
business reviews, Board and GELT meetings, and insurers reviews.
Internal Control The Board, with the help of the These assessments routinely identify Audit Committee, has reviewed the areas for improvement.
However, effectiveness of our internal control the Board has not identified or been system, as well as our financial, told of any material weaknesses operational and compliance controls in our internal controls.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 59 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Risk Management Framework Quality and Integrity of Our People The regions and businesses complete The roles and responsibilities within We strive to operate with high risk and control self-assessments our risk management framework are integrity in everything we do.
Internal Audit reviews set out below: control environment depends on these to identify any deficiencies high-quality people who maintain in our controls and how we should The Board our ethical standards.
The results are Has overall responsibility for the our peoples ability and integrity communicated to senior management Groups risk management and through our recruitment standards, and the Audit Committee.
training and consistent performance Approves strategic objectives.
The Board approves Understanding Shareholder Views Monitors the nature and extent of appointments to our most senior Our Chief Executive and Group risk exposure against risk appetite, management positions.
Finance Director regularly meet for our principal risks.
institutional investors and private Provides direction on the Information and Financial Reporting client brokers, to discuss our strategy importance of risk management Systems and progress, and to understand and risk management culture.
We create detailed operational how investors view our business.
budgets for the year ahead, along The Chairman also attends certain GELT with five-year strategic plans, which meetings.
During the year, our Identifies, addresses and mitigates the Board reviews and approves.
investor relations programme risks Group-wide.
We then monitor our performance included meetings in London, Monitors our risk management throughout the year, so we can Edinburgh, Paris and New York.
The information we consider includes our monthly In May 2015, we also held a Capital Audit Committee financial results, key performance Markets Day in London, which was Supports the Board in monitoring indicators and variances, updated fullattended by almost 100 institutional risk exposure against risk appetite.
year forecasts and key business risks.
The investor Reviews the effectiveness of our risk presentations were given by our management and internal control The main internal control and risk Chief Executive, Group Finance system.
management processes relating to our Director, Chief Scientific Officer preparation of consolidated accounts and the Chief Operating Officers of Risk Management and Internal Audit are our Group-wide accounting Genus ABS, Genus PIC and Genus Function policies and procedures, segregation Asia.
The presentations covered: Oversees the risk management of duties, a robust consolidation and an introduction to Genus and our process and provides guidance on reporting system, various levels of strategic direction: risk management.
management review and centrally an update on the Companys Maintains the risk schedule created defined process control points strategic progress since the last in consultation with senior and reconciliation processes.
our R&D approach to continuous Engages with senior management Investment Appraisal genetic improvement: to review risks and their mitigation.
We control our capital expenditure our porcine, dairy and beef through our budget process and businesses, including Asia: and Our Internal Control System by having clear authorisation levels, our financial performance.
The key elements of our internal above which our businesses must control systems are set out below.
submit detailed written proposals The Board sets time aside during An internal control system cannot to the Board for approval.
the Board meetings to discuss completely eliminate the risks we feedback from the Capital Markets face or ensure we do not have a We carry out due diligence for Day and other shareholder meetings, material misstatement or loss.
business acquisitions and material including relevant feedback obtained licences, and conduct postby independent brokers and our Management Structure completion reviews of major projects, advisers.
This allows all Directors to The Board sets formal authorisation to ensure we identify areas for understand major shareholders views.
levels and other controls that allow improvement and correct any areas it to delegate authority to run our of underperformance or overspend.
The AGM also gives the Board businesses to the Chief Executive, an opportunity to communicate GELT and their management teams.
Internal Audit with both private and institutional Our management supplements these Our internal audit activities are investors, and we welcome their controls by setting the operating provided by both in-house and involvement.
All our Board members standards that each subsidiary external resources, under the will be available to answer questions needs for its business and location.
leadership of our Head of Risk at the AGM on 19 November 2015.
GELT regularly reviews our During the year, Internal Audit performance against strategy, budget completed a risk-based audit and a defined set of operational programme agreed by the Audit key performance indicators.
The Audit Committee Chief Executive, Group Finance reviews the results of these audits Director, Group General Counsel and and the subsequent actions we Company Secretary and the Group take, which we also communicate Financial Controller also hold monthly to the external auditor.
reviews with each business unit.
