CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Effectiveness Diversity of skills, Induction experience, knowledge and Ongoing development personalities Commitment to fostering an Composition & Development open and constructively commitment challenging Board dynamic Sufficient time commitment Individual and Board Accurate and clear performance evaluations to information in advance of provide feedback and meetings identify opportunities for Information Access to Company Evaluation improvement Secretary and independent & support advice when needed Board composition Following their appointments to the Board in January 2016, Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash will retire and offer themselves for During 2015, the Board comprised three executive Directors until election at the 2016 annual general meeting AGM.
All other Andrew Reynolds Smiths resignation on 25 September and two Directors will retire and seek re-election at the AGM in accordance executive Directors for the rest of the year.
There were five with the provisions of the Code.
Our biographical details are given on non-executive Directors including the Chairman during the year.
Accordingly, more than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, was composed of independent non-executive Directors.
Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nominations Committee.
The Committee follows Board-approved Following the appointments of Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash procedures available on our website which provide a framework to the Board in January 2016, the Board comprises four for the different types of Board appointments.
Appointments are executive Directors and five non-executive Directors including made on merit against objective criteria with due regard to the Chairman.
diversity of skills, experience and gender.
The activities of the Nominations Committee during the year are set out on pages 68 The Board considers that all of the non-executive Directors, and 69. excluding the Chairman, are independent and it is not aware of any relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
Time commitment All Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
To this end, the time The composition of our Board is kept under review by the commitment expected of each non-executive Director is set out in Nominations Committee to ensure that it retains an appropriate their letter of appointment and non-executive appointees must balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of demonstrate that they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
the Group to enable it to meet the needs of the business.
Collectively the Directors have many years of experience gained Recognising the benefits that experience on other boards can across a variety of areas and industries, including finance, bring to the Company, executive Directors may accept one engineering and manufacturing, and many have strong external non-executive directorship, excluding the chairmanship international backgrounds, having held executive positions in of a FTSE 100 company.
Any proposed appointment is subject to Asia or the Americas.
In 2015 the Nominations Committee review and takes into account the Directors duty to avoid a considered composition and succession planning in light of conflict of interest.
During the year, Nigel Stein and Adam Walker Andrew Reynolds Smiths decision to resign from the Board.
accepted non-executive appointments to FTSE companies.
These Further details can be found on page 69. appointments were reviewed and approved by the Board.
The time commitment of each Director is reviewed in the Boards individual performance evaluations and I can confirm that each Director continues to devote sufficient time to their respective roles.
GKN plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board and committee attendance Attendance at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2015 was as follows: Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Director 10 meetings 6 meetings 9 meetings 4 meetings Chairman Mike Turner 10 4 Executive Directors Nigel Stein 10 4 Adam Walker 10 Non-executive Directors Angus Cockburn 10 6 9 4 1 Tufan Erginbilgic 9 5 8 4 2 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 9 6 9 3 3 Richard Parry-Jones 8 5 8 3 Former executive Director 4 Andrew Reynolds Smith 7 7 1 Tufan Erginbilgic was unable to attend the September Board and committee meetings due to a prior business commitment.
2 Shonaid Jemmett-Page was unable to attend short-notice Board and committee meetings in July due to overseas commitments.
Shonaid received the Board and committee papers before these meetings and confirmed her agreement to the proposals therein.
3 Richard Parry-Jones was unable to attend Board and committee meetings in November and December due to illness.
4 Andrew Reynolds Smith resigned from the Board on 25 September 2015 and therefore was only eligible to attend seven meetings.
Development Changes to the UK Corporate Governance Induction Governance Code On joining the Board, a Director receives a tailored induction to Company culture suit the individuals background and experience.
This includes: Governance around equity raising a comprehensive induction pack with background information Long-term market and technological trends Strategy about GKN, details of Board meeting procedures, and Directors Leadership and management development duties and responsibilities in addition to a number of other governance-related issues Cyber security Risk a briefing with the Company Secretary who is responsible for The audit committees role in disaster facilitating the induction of new Directors both into the Group recovery planning, crisis management and and as to their roles and responsibilities as Directors resilience meetings with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior executives to be briefed on the Group strategy and each individual business portfolio Information and support plant visits As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that Directors receive external training where appropriate, particularly on matters accurate, timely and clear information.
I set Board agendas relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities following consultation with the Chief Executive and with the of Board committees.
assistance of the Company Secretary.
An annual programme of items for discussion is kept under review by the Company Secretary to ensure that all matters reserved to us and other key Ongoing development Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the issues are considered at the appropriate time.
markets in which they operate, and changes to the competitive and regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to enable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and meetings with senior executives.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit Group operations in addition to formal Board circulated to Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the visits to increase their exposure to the business.
Company Secretary who ensures that the Board is fully briefed on legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
I discuss training and development needs with each Director as part of our annual individual performance evaluation process.
The Briefing papers are also circulated to committee members in Company Secretary keeps under review the suitability of external courses so that any needs identified either through the evaluation advance of committee meetings and, in respect of the Audit & Risk Committee, are made available to all other Directors.
The process or on an ad hoc basis can be addressed.
Company Secretary supports the committee chairmen by ensuring that agendas are appropriate and address all matters for which During the year Directors received training and formal updates on governance, strategy and risk from external experts as shown in the committee has specific responsibility.
In addition to the above, Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
GKN plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Performance evaluation Board evaluation PERFORMANCE EVALUATION PROCESS Each year a performance evaluation of the Board is undertaken.
An external evaluation is carried out every three years.
Following the external evaluation conducted in 2013, we undertook internal Together with the Company Secretary, I agree areas of focus evaluations in 2014 and 2015.
The evaluation process is described that we believe to be critical to the Boards effectiveness.
2015 these included: Feedback from the evaluation was very positive.
In particular, effectiveness of the Board decision-making process and members felt that the Board was strong, well chaired and that the quality of debate there was a good amount of challenge with well structured strategy and process discussion and frank and open debate.
Board composition succession planning Progress against our key actions for 2015 and the 2016 key actions risk and risk management systems agreed by the Board following discussion of the evaluation results culture.
Director evaluation Extensive one-to-one interviews conducted The individual performance of the Directors was evaluated and by the Company Secretary with each Director feedback was provided during one-to-one sessions with me.
I can confirm that each Director continues to make a very valuable contribution to the Board and devotes sufficient time to the role.
Summary of results presented to the Board My evaluation was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director for discussion taking into account the views of the other Directors.
Committee evaluation Key actions agreed by the Board Committee evaluations were carried out as part of this process: details of these evaluations can be found in the relevant committee report.
2015 key actions 2016 key actions Area of focus Key action Progress Key action Divisional strategies to be External experts were invited to the Refine the strategy process to Strategy discussed in the context of Board strategy meeting to update ensure there is adequate time to long-term market and technology us on long-term market and debate the key issues.
trends, with input from external technology trends.
Major projects and contracts to be taken to the Board at the earliest possible stage.
KPIs relating to principal key KPIs were expanded to provide a The internal control systems of each Risk risks to be revised and reported better balance between financial division relating to procurement risk to the Board.
and non-financial measures and to be reviewed.
are reported to the Board on a bi-annual basis.
The internal control systems of each Risk management systems were Third line of defence in key risk division relating to quality, reviewed and strengthened where areas to be reviewed.
Actions programme management and appropriate.
arising from the divisional risk contracting to be reviewed.
Increase senior managements level Divisional chief executives and Increase focus on succession Succession of exposure to the Board to certain other senior executives planning for the Executive planning accelerate development.
attended Board meetings when Committee and throughout relevant to their expertise.
GKN plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
