MIKE TURNER CBE 67 NIGEL STEIN 60 ANGUS COCKBURN 52 Chief Executive Independent non-executive Director Chairman N N E A R N Appointed to the Board in September Appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Appointed to the Board in January 2013.
2009 and became Chairman in May 2012.
Experience Joined GKN in 1994 and Experience Currently Chief Financial Experience Has extensive experience of held a range of commercial, general Officer of Serco Group plc.
He joined Serco the aerospace industry having worked management and finance roles, including in October 2014 from Aggreko plc where for BAE Systems plc for over 40 years, Group Finance Director and Chief he held the role of Chief Financial Officer including as its Chief Executive from Executive Automotive, before becoming for 14 years and was latterly Interim Chief 2002 to 2008.
Former President of Chief Executive in January 2012.
Prior to this he was Managing the Aerospace & Defence Industries to GKN, he gained experience in the Director of Pringle Scotland, a division Association of Europe.
Fellow of commercial vehicle and manufacturing of Dawson International plc.
Previously the Royal Aeronautical Society.
sector and held senior financial positions held a number of roles at PepsiCo Inc and with Laird Group plc and Hestair Duple was latterly Regional Finance Director for External appointments Chairman Ltd.
Member of the Institute of Chartered Central Europe.
Former non-executive of Babcock International Group PLC Accountants of Scotland and former director of Howden Joinery Group plc and and non-executive director of Lazard non-executive director of Wolseley plc.
former chairman of the Group of Scottish Ltd.
Member of the UK Governments Finance Directors.
He is also an Honorary Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
External appointments Non-executive Professor at the University of Edinburgh.
director of Inchcape plc and chairman of the UKs Automotive Council.
KEVIN CUMMINGS 53 TUFAN ERGINBILGIC 56 Chief Executive GKN Aerospace E Independent non-executive Director A R N Appointed to the Board in January 2016.
Appointed to the Board in May 2011.
Experience Joined GKN in 2008 as CEO Experience Currently Chief Executive, GKN Aerostructures North America.
Downstream for BP plc with specific Appointed Chief Executive GKN Aerospace responsibility for the Fuels, Lubricants in January 2014 and has been a member and Petrochemicals businesses.
He joined of the GKN Executive Committee since BP in 1997 and has held a number of October 2014.
He has held various senior marketing and operational roles, leadership roles in programme including Chief of Staff to the Group Chief management, strategic planning, Executive, Chief Operating Officer of engineering and business development: the Fuels business and Chief Executive prior to joining GKN he was Executive of the Castrol Lubricants business.
His Vice President & General Manager Launch early career was spent at Mobil Oil.
External appointments Director of the Turkish-British Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
GKN plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
