52 Genus Executive Leadership Team GELT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 53 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION GELTs Responsibilities GELTs members are set out on this 6Jerry Thompson GELT leads our strategic planning and page.
The executives are maturing into Chief Operating Officer, Genus Asia delivery and demonstrates the values a high-functioning, high-performing Jerry has worked for PIC and at the heart of our business.
Our team, combining professional expertise subsequently Genus for more than vision and values are fully embedded with commercial acumen to deliver 20 years.
After two years on the in the business, giving the entire the shared strategy for the Group.
graduate programme in the UK, he Genus team a clear and compelling 1Karim Bitar took roles in Siberia and Romania, culture, purpose and direction.
Chief Executive before being promoted to head up GELT also ensures organisational PIC in Central and Eastern Europe.
In 2Stephen Wilson alignment, engagement and efficient 2008, Jerry was appointed Regional Group Finance Director execution throughout the Group.
He moved to This involves crucial commercial, Shanghai in 2010, as Regional Director 3Dan Hartley scientific, operational and people for PIC and ABS in Russia and the Group General Counsel and decisions.
Equally important is GELTs Asia Pacific Region.
In July 2012, he Company Secretary stewardship of Genuss reputation, was promoted onto GELT as Chief See page 51 for Karims, Stephens ethical working and compliance.
Jerry is a and Dans biographies.
natural entrepreneur and has a deep To achieve its objectives, GELT operational knowledge of the PIC focuses on the following areas: business and emerging markets.
corporate strategy implementing 4Bill Christianson the strategy approved by the Chief Operating Officer, Genus PIC Board to achieve sustained 7Dr Jonathan Lightner growth, and developing Genus Bill joined Genus in 1993 in research, Chief R&D and Scientific Officer as a science and intellectual then moved into operations across property based company: Europe.
He returned to the US in Jonathan is a world-renowned performance management 1998, taking on increasingly senior quantitative molecular geneticist, driving operational results and roles.
He was appointed General whose career has encompassed R&D, delivery of corporate goals: Manager of PIC North America in regulatory and commercial activities.
ensuring core processes are reliable 2007 and from 2010 led the combined He joined us in 2013 from Pioneer and efficient: regularly reviewing PIC and ABS businesses across the Hi-bred International Inc, a DuPont R&D plans: managing risk, including Americas.
He became PICs Chief business, where he led a global team risk mitigation: and managing Operating Officer in 2012.
Bill has a focused on genetic solutions to the Genus balanced scorecard, unique combination of deep domain enhance agricultural productivity.
He including customer equity metrics: knowledge of the porcine industry has been issued over 40 patents in key people developing highand extensive commercial and global areas related to crop improvement.
performing teams by rigorous experience.
He has doctorates DVM He obtained his Doctorate in Plant selection, development and and PhD in Veterinary Medicine Physiology at the Institute of Biological setting stretching goals, together from the University of Minnesota.
Chemistry at Washington State with managing succession and University in 1994.
He also holds nurturing talent to bring through a Masters in Systems Engineering the next generation of leaders: and 5Saskia Korink Romani from Iowa State 2009 and an MBA resources management Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS from the University of Iowa 2009. judiciously investing in the Saskia became Chief Operating business for both organic and Officer of Genus ABS in January 2014, inorganic growth, including capital 8Catherine Glickman having joined Genus in 2013 as Chief expenditure and human resources.
Group Human Resources Director Marketing Officer.
Prior to Genus, she worked for Cargill Inc and was its first Catherine joined Genus in 2012.
She female business unit manager and worked for Tesco plc for 20 years, ultimately Vice President of Marketing where she was Group HR Director for its animal nutrition business.
Saskia from 2008 to 2011, focusing on has wide international experience, talent, succession and leadership having worked in Europe, Brazil and development.
She held HR Director the US.
She also has highly developed roles supporting Tescos international strategic and business development roll-out and a period of major skills, from seven years with Boston expansion for the UK stores.
Multi-lingual, she is sat on both the Health and Safety, originally a physicist and has an MBA and CSR Committees and was a from Columbia Business School.
Prior to Tesco, she worked in HR for Somerfield plc and Boots plc.
Catherine holds a degree in English Language and Literature from Durham University and is a member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
