CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT on a regular basis.
The Groups Board and governance framework is shown OUR DEVOLVED FRAMEWORK below.
We believe that this devolved management structure enables the Group Go-Ahead is headed by an effective Board, which is collectively responsible for to be managed in a particularly effective way with a structure that allows the the long term success of the Group.
Day to day management of the Group right balance between local and wider initiatives to deliver Group benefits.
and the implementation of strategies agreed by the Board across the Group It also ensures the Board remains well informed about our businesses, and operating companies have been delegated to the executive directors.
employees, passengers and stakeholders, enabling it to respond pro-actively The executive directors meet regularly with senior management in Group to the changing dynamics of the business.
and across our businesses both formally via monthly meetings and less formally BOARD AND GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD Board and executive Strategy and performance Finance Risk and governance Major approvals Setting the Groups vision Setting the long term Approval of the Managing a sound Approval of material and values strategy, targets and Group and Company framework of risk capital projects, objectives to achieve long financial statements management and internal investments, Approval of the Boards policies term shareholder value and ensuring that the controls and setting the acquisitions, franchises and procedures including Annual Report is fair, Boards risk appetite and disposals delegated authorities and the Approval of the balanced and terms of reference of all corporate plan for the Approval of the Groups Approval of changes understandable committees of the Board Group and individual key policies, including to the Groups operating companies Approval of dividend health & safety, corporate corporate structure Reviewing the performance of policy and social responsibility and and constitution the Board, its committees and Setting and monitoring recommending sustainability Approval of all share individual directors on an key performance dividends payable Ongoing review of the schemes and share annual basis indicators Approval of key Groups corporate buy-back Determining the remuneration Oversight and monitoring financial policies governance framework programmes policy for the executive of the corporate plan including accounting, and policies against directors and senior and performance fuel hedging, tax and best practice management against strategy treasury policies Succession planning and appointments to the Board and senior management BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The audit committee has responsibility for The remuneration committee has responsibility The nomination committee regularly reviews overseeing and monitoring the Groups for the Groups overall remuneration framework the structure, size and composition of the Board financial statements, internal and external and policy, including setting targets and reviewing and its committees, particularly in the context of auditors, accounting policies and processes, risk outcomes in accordance with strategy.
The experience, diversity and strategic direction.
The management systems and the effectiveness of committee ensures governance and best committee reviews Board and senior management internal controls.
The committee also provides practice principles are integrated into succession planning, leadership talent development assurance to the Board that the Annual Report remuneration policy, and that remuneration and pipelines, in addition to wider Group diversity is fair, balanced and understandable.
reporting is clear and transparent.
and developing people policies and initiatives.
See the audit committee report on page 63 See the directors remuneration report on page 70 See the nomination committee report on page 68 DEVOLVED MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Operating Company Boards Rail and Bus Steering Groups & Forums Group Executive Team Local senior management teams, who Our cross-business groups, which comprise The senior managers responsible for the key know their markets well, are empowered the managing directors in each operating centralised Group functions meet monthly to operate our operating companies as company, meet with the executive directors with the executive directors to review the autonomous business units.
Many aspects on a regular basis to work together to business and identify, execute and track of the Groups day-to-day management explore and identify new opportunities synergies which can then be cascaded are reported by operating company senior and initiatives and share knowledge, through the cross-business groups and forums.
management directly to the executive experience and best practice across our These functions include, but are not limited directors who in turn keep the Board operations.
These groups are supported to the areas of IT, procurement, bus and rail appraised of all operational matters.
by the cross-business forums which include, business development and marketing.
but are not limited to, health and safety, engineering, HR and diversity forums.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BOARD MEETINGS MATTERS RESERVED The Board has a planned schedule of meetings arranged for the year, and In addition to the responsibilities of the Board, the Board has a formal schedule a separate meeting dedicated to reviewing the Groups strategy, which of matters reserved for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed by the Board all directors attended.
During the year a number of additional meetings, each year and the full schedule can be found on the Groups corporate predominantly to discuss franchise bids, were also held by conference call.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors periodically meet without Routine matters also considered at all Board meetings include: the executive directors being present.
During the year, the Chairman met Key issues and strategic matters individually with each director.
The Group Chief Executives report on safety, sustainability, strategic The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation and business developments with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary.
Detailed The Group Finance Directors report which includes the latest available briefing papers in relation to the business to be conducted at each meeting management accounts are circulated to the Board electronically at least one week before each Performance against financial and non-financial KPIs meeting.
The executive directors and Group Company Secretary are readily available should any Board member wish to receive additional information.
Investor relations report Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and debate, and the Where applicable, reports from the audit, remuneration and nomination Chairman ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda committees items, in particular strategic issues.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS IN 2014 15 The Chairman and Group Chief Executive hold distinctly separate roles Directors attendance at scheduled meetings they were eligible to attend: and the division of responsibility between these roles is clearly established, as shown on page 58.
The Board has adopted a written Statement of Division Audit Remuneration Nomination Board attendance Board committee committee committee of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring its effectiveness by promoting challenge Total meetings 8 4 3 1 and debate and ensuring a regular evaluation process.
The Group Chief Andrew Allner 8 3 1 Executive is responsible for the performance, management and supervision David Brown 8 1 of the Group in accordance with the strategies and values set by the Board.
Keith Down 8 The evaluation of the Board confirmed that the developing relationship of Katherine Innes Ker 7 3 2 0 the Chairman and Group Chief Executive was seen as working well and Nick Horler 8 4 3 1 was a source of satisfaction and strength to the wider Board.
The Chairman is supported by the Senior Independent Director who provides a sounding Adrian Ewer 8 4 3 1 board to the Chairman and is an alternative point of contact for directors One meeting missed due to a bereavement.
and shareholders, where contact with the Chairman or Group Chief Executive Although not a member of all the committees, David Brown and Keith Down is inappropriate.
attended a number of audit committee, remuneration committee and The Chairman holds regular informal meetings and dinners with the Board nomination committee meetings as invited attendees.
members to help build relationships and foster mutual understanding of roles and personalities.
This has also led to greater challenge and more constructive debates in the Boardroom where integrity and effective decision making is considered to be of utmost importance.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that its power to authorise conflicts of interest is operated in accordance with the Groups articles of association.
The Board considers that the procedures in respect of this power, which have been properly followed, have operated effectively during the year and the conflicts register has been updated accordingly.
The Board is aware of its directors other commitments and any changes to these commitments are advised to and approved by the Board committees.
com 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED INDIVIDUAL ROLES OF THE BOARD CHAIRMAN GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Operation, leadership and governance Overall responsibility and leadership Maintains strong financial management of the Board for Group performance and implements effective financial controls Board effectiveness Communicates the vision and values Plays a lead role in the development and of the Group implementation of corporate strategy Sets Board agenda, style and tone of Board discussions Stewardship of Group assets Provides financial and commercial decision leadership vision and support Ensures the directors receive accurate, Plans and executes objectives and timely and clear information strategies Ensures the appropriateness of risk management systems In conjunction with the Group Company Maintains a close working relationship Secretary, ensures that new directors with the Chairman, ensuring effective Leads the development of investor receive a comprehensive induction dialogue with investors and stakeholders relations strategy and communications programme Manages the senior management team Responsible for corporate finance functions, Effective communication with financial planning and budget management Has overall responsibility for the Groups shareholders sustainability performance Supports and advises the senior Sets the tone of the Groups culture and management team Ensures that leadership and development values and ensures that these continue frameworks are developed to generate Oversees all aspects of accounting finance to be strengthened and embedded a positive pipeline of future opportunities operations including accounting policies and across the Group for the Group integrity of financial data and external financial reporting SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY Acts as a sounding board for the Provide constructive challenge Secretary to the Board and its committees Chairman Help develop strategy Ensures efficient information flows Serves as an intermediary for within the Board and its committees Scrutinise performance of management other directors and between senior management and Monitor reporting of performance non-executive directors Is available to meet shareholders if they Ensure integrity of financial information have concerns which they have not been Facilitates induction of new directors Ensure financial controls and systems able to resolve through the normal and assists with training and development of risk management are robust and channels of the Chairman, Group Chief needs as required defensible Executive or Group Finance Director or Ensures compliance with Board procedures for which such contact is inappropriate Determine appropriate levels of Regularly updates the Board on corporate remuneration for the executive directors Conducts an annual review of the governance matters, legislative changes and performance of the Chairman and Are available to meet with major regulatory regimes affecting the Group convenes a meeting of the non-executive shareholders Co-ordinates external Board evaluation directors to discuss the same and conducts internal Board evaluations For full details of our directors biographies see pages 54 and 55 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 58 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BOARD EFFECTIVENESS INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives BOARD COMPOSITION appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Group On 27 June 2015, the Board comprised the Chairman, three non-executive has also granted indemnities to each of its directors to the extent permitted directors and two executive directors.
The Board is confident that collectively it by law.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in Section 234 brings a wealth of knowledge and a comprehensive mix of skills and experience.
of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the year ended 27 June 2015 The biographies of all members of the Board, outlining the experience they and remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities that the directors bring to their roles, are set out on pages 54 and 55.
The composition of the may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or employees of Board did not change during the year.
the Group or of any associated company.
Neither the Groups indemnity nor its insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven to have acted DIRECTORS TENURE dishonestly or fraudulently.
Nick Horler Non-Executive Director 2-4 years INDUCTION Adrian Ewer Non-Executive Director All new directors undertake a full induction programme either shortly before or upon joining the Board.
Each induction programme is personalised, tailored 33% specifically to take into account the directors previous experience and Andrew Allner Chairman 4-6 years background and is targeted to particular areas of focus.
It is designed to enhance David Brown Group Chief Executive the new directors understanding of their roles and responsibilities and develop Keith Down Group Finance Director 67% their knowledge in relation to the transport industry generally, and, specifically, Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director the Groups structure and operations.
The Group Company Secretary, in collaboration with the Chairman, agrees the personalised induction plan There are no directors with 0-2 years service with each new director.
During the year, there were no new directors who required an induction.
ELECTION & RE-ELECTION TO THE BOARD All directors are required by the Groups articles of association to be elected DIRECTOR LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board.
The Chairman regularly encourages the non-executive directors to Subsequently, all directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders continually update their skills, knowledge and ongoing familiarity with as recommended by the Code.
the Group in order to competently carry out their responsibilities.
The performance of all directors is objectively and rigorously reviewed on This is achieved as follows: an annual basis and this is used as the basis for recommending re-election Regular presentations at Board meetings from senior management on of directors to shareholders.
Examples during the year included presentations The performance evaluation reviews undertaken during the year confirmed on rail franchising opportunities and bidding, overseas rail and bus that members of the Board and its committees have the appropriate balance strategy, as well as succession planning and leadership programmes of skills, experience and diversity of background to enable them to discharge The non-executive directors have a planned programme of operating their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Their views carry significant weight company visits during the year: they also usually attend the Groups in the Boards decision making and no individual or group of individuals annual senior management conference dominates decision making.
The Board works well together to bring independent and balanced judgement to their deliberations.
The Regular updates on the Groups businesses as well as updates on non-executive directors are independent in both character and judgement corporate governance and legislative regulatory issues.
Updates are and the Chairman was considered independent on his appointment.
by way of written briefings from the Group Company Secretary, presentations from management and presentations from external As such, and in accordance with the Groups articles of association and advisors.
During the year under review updates focused on the the Code, all directors will be offering themselves for annual re-election revisions to the Code and boardroom best practice at the 2015 AGM.
Full details of the performance evaluation process can be found on page 60 Regular updates on political and market related issues as well as compliance training.
During the year this included updates on the TIME COMMITMENTS Quality Contract Scheme in the north east and the possible outcomes The nomination committee regularly assesses the other commitments of and impact of the general election on the Group all directors.
This year, the committee was again satisfied that there are no conflicts of interest and that all directors, particularly those who are also chairing Equally, as part of their annual performance evaluation, directors are given committees, have sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities.
Prior to any new the opportunity to discuss their own training and development needs.
commitments being made by directors, agreement is sought from the Chairman.
Directors are expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure each is adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a director.
The Board is confident that all of its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
com 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD EVALUATION At the start of the reporting year, an internal Board effectiveness review was undertaken by the Group Company Secretary.
The Group Company Secretary has significant insight into both the day-to-day and strategic workings of the Board and is therefore considered a suitable and independent sounding board for this process.
To ensure continuity, the process was in line with that reported in the previous year and included peer to peer director assessment.
INTERNAL BOARD REVIEW INSIGHTS During one-to-one detailed and focused discussions, directors were asked Challenge and decision making their views on a broad range of subjects with the general theme around Sufficient information was provided, in a timely manner, in order to areas of boardroom best practice.
The Chairman set the right tone from the top, with an approach that optimised collegiality, transparency and AREAS OF INTERNAL BOARD EVALUATION freedom of expression among Board directors.
There was a robust, thorough and inclusive decision making process, with the right level of debate and challenge Strategy LEADERSHIP All Board members were clear about, and supportive of, the Groups AND current strategy and process for strategic discussion and decisions.
CULTURE Further consideration was planned on how to integrate strategy even further into Board meetings throughout the year, as a follow on from the annual strategy day, with more time given to free-flow discussion CHALLENGE and deeper debate on key areas BOARD AND DECISION COMPOSITION Risk MAKING The changes to improve the top-down process for risk assessment now allows more time to focus on the key risks that could impact the delivery of strategy.
A more structured and documented process would however be needed around the Boards actual risk discussions, particularly in light of the recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code Board composition There was a good balance of skills, experience, gender and diversity generally, particularly in the context of a small Board, where each STRATEGY RISK appointment was inevitably more significant.
Achieving greater diversity at executive level and below was a more fundamental long term business priority Given the timing of the previous internal review in 2013, significant progress had already been made on the recommendations by the end of the last reporting year.
The actions taken were detailed on page 59 of last KEY FINDINGS years annual report.
The internal review this year revisited these actions to Leadership and culture ensure that the good practice continued and also found that even further The Board was found to be well run, with all Board members engaged progress had been made in some areas.
In particular, the Boards oversight and positive Board dynamics.
The initiatives led by the Chairman, to foster of succession planning and talent management had taken a step forward relationships inside and outside the Boardroom, were positive and in the last year, with much more information provided and review at Board welcomed improvements to building the trust and relationships that level to help inform the delivery of strategy.
The increased engagement and underpinned Board effectiveness.
inclusive approach with senior managers was also seen as a valuable and positive addition to decision making.
In addition to the full Board, a number of senior executives were also selected EXTERNAL BOARD EVALUATION to participate to ensure that the evaluation encompassed the input of those In order to better align the timing of the Boards performance review with who interact with the Board so that the exercise did not simply represent the annual reporting, the external review was brought forward.
Condign Board Boards own view of itself.
Formal peer-to-peer director evaluation was not Consulting Condign was appointed to undertake this review.
Condign included as part of the external review as this had been undertaken at the did not provide any other services to the Group during the year.
Given the recent internal review.
timing of the recent internal review and the actions already implemented the Chairman expressed a desire for the external review to be forward looking, KEY FINDINGS OF EXTERNAL BOARD REVIEW constructive and developmental.
The theme of the external review was In summary, the external review also found the overall functioning of the Board therefore based on what may need to change for the Board to maximise to be at a very good level and had improved markedly over the course of the the delivery of strategy.
This was largely seen to be from the new initiatives introduced The process involved Condign initially meeting with the Chairman, Senior by the Chairman, the development of the Group Chief Executives relationship Independent Director and Group Company Secretary to discuss the scope with the Board and their partnership together.
Good Board dynamics, open and participants.
A discussion guide was then sent to all participants in advance dialogue and constructive challenge were observed, with governance at a high of one-to-one meetings with all Board members.
Condign also received Board standard.
Most of the priorities from the previous two internal evaluations had and committee meeting papers and attended these meetings as an observer.
been dealt with, or were in progress, which had contributed positively to the A briefing meeting was then held with the Chairman, Senior Independent current position.
Director and Group Company Secretary to discuss the interim report and feedback before a final report was sent to all Board members ahead of discussion at the next Board meeting.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 60 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RECOMMENDATIONS GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY There were a number of recommendations, as shown below, which the Board The Group Company Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice discussed at a meeting with Condign.
At the time of this report being published, and is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are complied with and the actions in response to the recommendations were still being considered.
that Board and committee papers are circulated to all directors by electronic A summary of the key areas which the Board are considering are shown below.
means ensuring fast, timely and secure provision of information.
Full details, including progress against them, will be provided in next years The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in her role as secretary annual report.
to the Board and its committees.
She reports to the Group Finance Director on Stakeholder management and corporate reputation all other company secretariat matters, including the management of the Groups Consider how to maximise the non-executive directors participation bus pension arrangements.
Her biography can be found on page 55. in stakeholder management INDEPENDENT ADVICE Strategy development iteration All directors may take independent professional advice, at the Groups Consider the timing and format of more regular formal strategy updates expense, if they believe it to be necessary for the proper discharge of Organisation and Group structure their duties as directors.
Review Group and organisation structure, and succession and talent RELATIONS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS planning to further support Group strategic objectives Collaboration with stakeholders and partnership-working is fundamental Top down consideration of risk in our approach and the long term sustainability of our business.
Consider new approaches to the assessment of risk including how the Group improves its articulation of risk appetite As a leading provider of transport in the UK, we face a wide range of complex issues.
Some of those issues are within our control, some we seek Non-executive director rotation succession to influence and others are more challenging to manage and require strong Plan for the next Board refreshment and crystallising non-executive and collaborative relationships with our stakeholders, which can be seen to director rotation points in the light of future needs give us a positive advantage in our market.
Executive team development HR diversity OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS Develop internal and external candidate pools from non-traditional sources Our customers, people, communities, investors, government, strategic partners and suppliers are our key stakeholders that may have a material impact on the INFORMATION AND SUPPORT successful delivery of our strategic targets.
BOARD PROCEDURES MANUAL The Board is supplied with high quality information, presented in a form appropriate to enhance Board effectiveness.
A comprehensive Board procedures manual is maintained which includes formal procedures for the working of the Board and its committees, delegated authorities, the timely provision of appropriate information and the duties and responsibilities of directors, including standards of conduct and compliance.
This manual is regularly updated to ensure it is consistent with current best practice.
RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS OUR PEOPLE COMMUNITIES INVESTORS High levels of employee engagement, Our businesses are part of the local As a publicly listed company we provide open commitment and job satisfaction contribute communities in which they operate.
Our and transparent information which enables directly to the success of Go-Ahead.
The aim is to play a constructive role in the informed investment decisions to be made.
majority of our people are members of villages, towns and cities we serve, working Providing information so that investors can trade unions and our local teams foster closely with local community groups.
make informed decision is a priority for us.
good relationships with their representatives.
Feedback from our shareholders forms part of strategic discussions in the Boardroom.
GOVERNMENT STRATEGIC PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS Policy and regulatory changes affect our Professional relationships with core suppliers We need to know how we are performing bus and rail business.
Working closely with help to ensure and support efficient delivery and our passengers perception of our both central and local government enables of our passenger transport services.
We have services so we can deliver change and us to provide input into new policies and an ethical procurement policy demonstrating improvements.
We understand our local ensure we receive regular feedback on our values are extended to our supply chain markets and strive to meet our passengers our performance.
and those who do business with us.
For more about our relationship with our stakeholders, visit: www.
com 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Our investor base is largely UK focused and as such we focus our IR RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS programme in the UK.
Following our full and half year results we hold investor Go-Aheads Board has always been committed to reporting in a fair, balanced roadshows in London and Edinburgh for institutional investors.
We also attend and understandable manner and places great importance on transparent, the annual conferences held by our corporate brokers.
In addition to these relevant and timely communication with shareholders.
Throughout the year, programmed events, we respond to meeting requests from institutional and we maintained open and frequent dialogue with investors, providing updates private holders throughout the year.
While key shareholder engagement on strategy, objectives and governance.
activities are undertaken by the executive directors, overall responsibility The Groups investor relations IR programme, managed by the Group for ensuring that there is regular and effective dialogue with investors rests IR team, includes regular dialogue between the executive directors and with the Chairman, who is available to meet investors and appreciates the current and potential shareholders through group and one to one meetings, opportunity to do so.
The Senior Independent Director and committee chairs presentations and conferences.
The executive team are also in regular contact are also available to meet key investors on request and the Group Corporate with sell-side analysts and meet with broker sales teams to communicate the Communications Director and Head of IR are available to provide updates Groups key message to the people dealing with investors every day.
We also on the Groups sustainability and broader governance strategies to socially communicate with the investment community through regular news releases responsible investors.
Financial results and other material news releases are When appropriate, we host investor events on specific topics.
In October 2014, issued via the London Stock Exchange as well as being published on our investors attended our half-day rail event in which executive directors and corporate website www.
operational management provided updates on existing and new rail franchises The IR section of our website provides a wealth of information including a as well as strategic plans.
dedicated results centre, latest news, access to reports, presentations and other The IR team provides the Board with regular reports and updates, including useful documents, as well as share price, market capital and other shareholder analysts reviews, analysis of the shareholder register and shareholder feedback.
Investors and other interested parties can subscribe to receive Understanding our shareholders views is important to us.
Following our full news through email updates by registering their details on our website.
and half year roadshows our corporate advisors gather detailed feedback Our website is fully responsive, enabling shareholders to access information from institutional shareholders which is presented to the Board.
This forms on the move through a range of mobile devices.
an important part of the Boards strategic discussions and also assists the IR We continue to use other channels to engage with a wider audience through team in improving the quality of communications.
Feedback is also sought by our Facebook and Twitter accounts.
We also have a range of award-winning the committee chairs: for example, the remuneration committee chair has social media activities in place across our bus and rail companies, updating recently consulted with major shareholders on the proposed changes to the passengers with real time service information.
Combined, Go-Ahead and its remuneration policy outlined in this report.
companies are reaching 250,000 people on Twitter and 140,000 on Facebook.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM During the year we were awarded the most effective communication of overall In addition to individual meetings, the principal communication with all investment proposition and best use of digital communications within the FTSE shareholders is through the annual report and the AGM.
The AGM is attended 250 category, at the Investor Relations Society Awards 2014.
More recently, by all directors and all shareholders are invited and encouraged to attend as it we were recognised for our Investor and analyst communications at the 2015 provides an opportunity to develop their understanding of the Group and ask Corporate Finance Awards.
There is also the opportunity to meet informally with the directors before and after the meeting.
Full details of the business to be discussed at the Groups next AGM on Thursday 22 October 2015 can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
This is sent to registered shareholders in advance of the meeting and will also be available on our website at www.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 62 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Adrian Ewer Committee Chair Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES During the year we conducted a full tender The terms of reference of the audit committee are reviewed at least annually of the statutory auditor appointment.
to ensure they remain fit for purpose and in line with best practice.
The audit committees terms of reference can be accessed via the corporate website DEAR SHAREHOLDER www.
com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
On the following pages we set out the audit committees report for the year The audit committee is responsible for: ended 27 June 2015.
Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal During the year, the committee focused on the areas of work highlighted as a announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, and reviewing priority for the audit committee in last years report.
This included monitoring significant financial reporting judgements contained in them before their changes in the external regulatory environment to ensure we continue to have submission to the Board for approval appropriate financial, compliance and internal controls in place and ensuring we are able to exercise our assurance oversight role in the best possible way.
Reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the consistency of significant This work is always an important and recurring priority for the committee accounting policies, and whether appropriate accounting standards have and one that continues to be at the core of what we do.
The committee been used also undertook a formal tender process for the Groups statutory audit work, Reviewing the content of the annual report and advising the Board full details of which can be found on page 67.
As a result of this process the on whether it is fair, balanced and understandable Board will propose to shareholders at the 2015 AGM that Deloitte LLP Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal replace Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups new statutory auditor.
financial controls and internal control and risk management systems In addition to the audit committees main responsibilities detailed opposite, Reviewing reports from the internal health and safety auditor on we set out below our key highlights for 2014 15 and priorities for 2015 16. health and safety audit standards These key highlights and priorities, in addition to all of the work undertaken Providing assurance to the remuneration committee on quality of by the committee during the year, are explained in further detail throughout earnings and budget for performance-related bonus purposes this report.
Reviewing the adequacy of the whistle blowing system, the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and the systems and controls for the prevention of bribery, and receiving reports on non-compliance Monitoring and keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function, including the review and assessment of the annual Adrian Ewer, internal audit plan and receiving reports from the internal auditors at Audit Committee Chair each meeting 2 September 2015 2014 15 AUDIT COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS 2015 16 AUDIT COMMITTEE PRIORITIES Approval of half year and full year financial statements In addition to its usual items of business, the audit committees priorities for 2015 16 are to: Provided assurance to the Board on whether the 2014 15 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable Continue to monitor changes in the external regulatory environment to make sure that we continue to have appropriate financial, compliance Focus on the key significant risks that could impact the Group achieving and internal controls in place its strategic objectives Support the transition of external auditors from Ernst & Young LLP Review of the effectiveness of the external audit process to Deloitte LLP and facilitate the induction of Deloitte LLP Ongoing control and assessment of the internal audit process, including Continue to ensure the committee is exercising its assurance oversight approval of internal audit plan for the two years ending June 2017 role in the best possible way Strengthening of Groups cyber security policies Support the Board in responding to the amendments to the updated Conducted a full tender of the statutory external auditor appointment Code published in September 2014, including the assessment of risk and risk appetite and the statement on the Groups viability Review of scope and delivery of internal audit www.
com 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Chair holds pre-audit committee meetings with key advisors between AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED main committee meetings.
Overseeing the Groups relationship with the external auditor, including monitoring and reviewing their performance, assessing their continuing At least once a year, the non-executive directors hold separate meetings independence, making recommendations as to their reappointment or, with the external and internal auditors, without the executive directors being where appropriate, making recommendations for change, and approving present.
The committee members have between them a wide range of business their terms of engagement and the level of audit fees payable to them and financial experience which enables the committee to fulfil its responsibilities in a robust and independent manner.
The committee considers Adrian Ewer, Assessing the qualifications, expertise and resources of the auditor and the Committee Chair, a Chartered Accountant, to have recent and relevant the effectiveness of the audit process financial experience for the purposes of compliance with the Code.
Ensuring that at least once every 10 years the audit services contract FINANCIAL REPORTING is put out to tender The primary role of the committee in relation to financial reporting is to COMMITTEE MEETINGS review, with both management and the external auditors, the appropriateness of the interim and year end financial statements.
The committee focuses The audit committee usually meets at least four times a year excluding meetings amongst other matters, on: held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation.
Members individual attendance at committee meetings for the year under The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices review can be found on page 57.
The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting Meetings of the committee generally take place immediately prior to a Board standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements meeting in order to maximise the effectiveness of collaborating with the Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or there Board.
Meetings are attended by the independent non-executive directors.
has been discussion with the external auditor By invitation, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director Whether the report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and internal and external auditors regularly attend meetings.
In order to ensure momentum is sustained and matters progressed, the Committee Any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial reporting KEY FINANCIAL AND INTERNAL CONTROLS MATTERS FOR 2014 15 HOW THE COMMITTEE ADDRESSED THESE KEY FINANCIAL MATTERS Compliance with franchise terms and The committee regularly reviews the accounting policies relating to income and cost arising from conditions relating to the rail components franchise agreements.
At interim and year end reviews, a full schedule of material income statement of the Group, specifically relating to the and balance sheet is assessed against the committees expectations and discussed with the accounting for related income and costs Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
arising from franchise agreements Ongoing review of provisions for liabilities and At interim and year end, the levels of provision for third-party claims, lease return and dilapidation charges, specifically relating to third-party claims provisions are reviewed with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Managements and lease return and dilapidation provisions for review is supported by reports from appropriate third-party experts who independently assess rolling stock, stations, depots, other properties the required provision based on their industry knowledge and an understanding of the Groups and measurement of uninsured liabilities specific circumstances.
Increases in provisions, utilisation and release of provisions are all reviewed for reasonableness in light of these reports and the Groups specific circumstances.
Impairment testing in respect of the carrying The ongoing review of goodwill and carrying value of investments, as presented by management, is value of goodwill on the Groups investments challenged by the committee.
This is done by assessing the expected performance of the individual cash generating units and ensuring that relevant risk factors are imputed to the rate of return used to assess net present value of future cashflows.
The committee also reviews historic performance against expectations set in previous years.
Assumptions underpinning the calculation of Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Group by independent actuaries.
Additionally the Groups defined benefit pension liabilities the committee assesses the underlying assumptions with other professional advisors to ensure that the actuaries own assumptions are appropriate for the Group.
The committee also discusses the appropriateness of the assumptions with the Groups external auditor.
Ongoing review of changing issues such The audit committees review of risks and uncertainties in the wider economy encompasses emerging as the impact of European working time risks and considers each when appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
The committee will seek directive on holiday pay specific legal or other professional advice to support its assessment of areas that could affect the Group.
Understanding and treatment of exceptional The committee will consider separate disclosure of exceptional income or costs in light of the FRC items in the year end accounts recommendations of a balanced and consistent approach.
The committee is mindful of the need to understand the underlying trends of each division within the business with the impact of large and unusual items segregated out as necessary to avoid distortions from such non-recurring aspects.
Ensuring operating company compliance with The committee, together with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, approves Group policies and procedures and maintaining the scope of internal audit including the cycle of visits to test operating company compliance and the required financial control environment financial control, based on a risk assessment.
The results of the internal audit visits are considered by the committee, together with managements responses to any improvement points.
Control matters and reporting issues identified as part of the external auditors interim and year end audits are also reviewed by the committee which considers the adequacy of any management responses required.
In addition management ensure that the recruitment and review process for operating company directors gives confidence in the calibre of the operating company teams and their management, and review of the control environment in which they operate.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 64 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information As part of the interim and year end financial statements approval process, the Is there a clear and understandable framework to the report, with the committee met with the external auditor.
During this exercise the committee important messages highlighted appropriately throughout?
considered the key audit risks identified as being significant to the 2014 15 Is the layout clear with good linkage throughout in a manner that reflects accounts and the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or the whole story?
judgemental matters identified during the audit and half yearly review, as well as Following its review, the committee was of the opinion that the 2015 Annual any recommendations or observations made by the external auditor.
The primary Report and Accounts is representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced areas of judgement considered by the committee in relation to the key financial and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for matters for 2014 15 and how these were addressed are set out opposite.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
FAIR, BALANCED & UNDERSTANDABLE At the request of the Board, the audit committee has considered whether, in its HOW WE MANAGE THE GROUPS RISK MANAGEMENT AND opinion, the 2014 15 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM and understandable, and whether it provides the information necessary for THE BOARDS RESPONSIBILITIES shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
For the financial year ended 27 June 2015 and up to the date of approval A collaborative approach is taken to creating the report which involves direct of this report, the Board confirms that it has complied with provision input from key report contributors, including the Board and committee, C. 2.1 of the Code, and has established procedures that implement in full throughout the process and includes the following: the guidance given in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors Early planning and implementation of timetable with experienced project on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
managers for each section The Board recognises its responsibility for the Groups risk management Briefings on the requirements of the fair, balanced and understandable and internal control system and is committed to ensuring its adequacy and requirements for all involved: this includes the Corporate Communications, effectiveness in every respect.
Any system of internal control can provide only Company Secretariat and Group Legal teams as well as Group Finance to reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities validate the appropriateness of material disclosed.
The inclusion of various will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is Group departments, with input from operating divisions as appropriate, eliminated.
The Boards objective is to ensure that the Group has appropriate ensures the balance, completeness and accuracy of the annual report systems in place for the identification and management of risks.
Validation of data and information included in the report undertaken INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT both internally and by the external auditor The key roles and responsibilities of each of the respective functions A series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across all sections within the Groups system of risk management are detailed on page 34. that aim to ensure consistency and accuracy Through the process outlined in the framework: Early drafts of the report available to the audit committee to ensure Key risk areas are identified, assessed and prioritised timely review and allow comments to be incorporated Areas for improvement of internal controls and risk management Audit committee recommendation to the Board are identified In considering whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable, the Action plans are agreed and implemented to achieve such improvements committee reflects upon the information it has received and discussions Progress against actions is monitored by senior management, the executive throughout the year.
The committee also asks a number of key questions directors and the audit committee which include: The other key features of the Groups internal control and risk management Is the whole story presented and has equal weight been given to all messages?
system are set out in the table on page 35.
The Board has confirmed that Is the narrative reporting consistent with the financial reporting, with through its audit committee and that committees review of the key financial key messages reflected in both?
and internal control matters for 2014 15 as detailed on page 64, it has reviewed Is the description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, strategy the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and compliance and objectives in the report consistent with the Boards understanding?
controls and risk management, and considers that this system of internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the Are KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level based on the financial reporting?
date on which the financial statements were signed.
KEY FEATURES OF THE GROUPS RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Group structure The Groups devolved organisation structure supports an effective top-down bottom-up approach to risk management and control Leadership Clear leadership from the Board with the executive directors playing an integral role working with operating companies Board-level reporting Regular review of reports received from the Groups internal auditor, health and safety consultants, external auditor and the executive directors Health and safety reporting Health and safety standards established across all operating companies and key performance indicators monitored on a monthly basis at operating company and Board level Strategy and financial reporting A comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting, budgeting and cash forecasting and control through which the consolidated financial accounts are prepared and submitted to the Board monthly and from which the interim and annual consolidated financial reporting is derived Compliance management Annual certification by each operating company that they have adhered to the Groups policies and procedures manual which reinforces the Groups corporate governance, internal control processes and management of risk www.
com 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED the same.
A key area identified from the review was for the committee WHISTLEBLOWING & ANTI-BRIBERY PROCEDURES to further develop their approach to the assessment of risk, including The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, openness risk appetite, which is already underway.
The Group and all operating companies have whistleblowing policies in place.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under INTERNAL AUDITOR the policy and any concerns raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly The Groups internal audit function has been outsourced to to assess what action, if any, should be taken.
Any matters of significance are  on a rolling 12 month contract, with overall reported to the audit committee.
responsibility and direction being retained by the audit committee.
The internal The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act and procedures have audit function provides assurance over the effectiveness of key internal controls been established to ensure that compliance is achieved.
This sets out what is as identified as part of the risk assessment process.
In addition to meetings expected from employees to ensure that they protect themselves as well as with local management, the internal auditor reports to the executive directors the Groups reputation and assets.
Training has been provided to the Board at least six times a year and to the audit committee at least four times a year.
and senior management and is refreshed on a regular basis.
Any breach of The committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship with the Bribery Act will be regarded as serious misconduct, potentially justifying  and maintains the procedures to ensure immediate dismissal.
appropriate independence of the internal audit function.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE In accordance with the previously agreed internal audit plan for the two years The committees performance was reviewed both internally this year by the ended 27 June 2015 the committee reviewed reports confirming the findings Group Company Secretary, and externally by Condign Board Consulting.
from the internal audit reviews undertaken, the actions taken to implement Both reviews found the committee to be effective and well run, with the recommendations made in these reports and the status of progress particular commendation for the committees response to the changes against previously agreed actions.
The committee also considered and in the external regulatory environment and best practice reporting of approved the new internal audit plan for two years ending June 2017.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REVIEWED AN AUDIT QUALITY FRAMEWORK WHICH ASSESSED THE FOLLOWING KEY AUDIT PHASES: PHASE AREAS COVERED Audit planning Team structure and leadership demonstrated by the audit partner and design Integrated audit approach Audit tailored to the business Leveraging sources of assurance Use of innovation and technology Audit execution Behavioural factors including professional challenge Technical excellence Communication and audit reporting Audit efficiency and project management Independence and Review of external auditors internal quality control procedures quality control Consideration of audit firm transparency report in line with the Code, paying specific attention to the sections on independence and quality assurance and training Role of management Detailed questioning of the role of management both at operating company and Group level The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 66 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information During the financial year, the principal external auditors fees were 0.5m EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS 2014: 0.5m : in addition, non-audit fees of 0.2m 2014: 0.1m were The audit committee believed it remained necessary to review the effectiveness payable to the principal auditor.
In comparison, non-audit fees paid to other of the incumbent auditor Ernst & Young, despite completing the formal tender providers during the financial year were 1.5m 2014: 1.8m.
Approval was process for a new statutory auditor.
During the year, the Committee Chair given for the provision of taxation services where the committee was satisfied led the process, the primary purpose of which was to gain assurance that the that the external auditor was able to provide better value for money without external auditor had conducted a comprehensive, appropriate and effective compromise to their independence.
Through a constructive, honest and open dialogue with the external Several of our operating companies use Grant Thornton as their auditor.
auditor about its performance, the objectives of the process were to: Total fees to Grant Thornton during the financial year were less than Assess each phase of the audit process against a quality framework, as 0.1m 2014: 0.1m.
Grant Thornton received non-audit fees of less shown in the table below than 0.1m 2014: 0.1m.
Discuss with the external auditor what areas went well and what could be improved EXTERNAL AUDIT APPOINTMENT Result in optimised assurance being derived from the audit Last year we advised that in accordance with the Code provision C. 3.7 we would be initiating a formal tender process, which would also coincide Help inform the incoming audit firm of any improvements to processes with the timing of the retirement of our current senior statutory auditor.
that the audit committee will undertake The tender process commenced in June 2014 with the publication of an The assessment was carried out in conjunction with each key phase of OJEU notice and concluded at the end of the calendar year.
The Board will the audit and so was discussed at each subsequent committee meeting.
propose to the shareholders at the 2015 AGM that Deloitte LLP will be the The observations from this assessment for the 2014 15 financial year were Groups new statutory auditor.
presented and discussed at the August 2015 meeting and it was concluded An audit tender panel the AT panel was established, comprised of by the audit committee that our audit process was effective.
the Audit Committee Chair, the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
Six firms submitted a response to the pre-qualification INDEPENDENCE, OBJECTIVITY AND FEES questionnaire and three were shortlisted to provide presentations to the The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and is aware AT panel.
The presentations provided the opportunity for detailed discussion of the situations that may give rise to the impairment of auditor independence.
The audit committee carefully considers the objectivity of the auditor on In determining who to appoint, the audit committee took into account a an annual basis, in relation to both the audit process and the relationship number of factors.
These included but were not limited to the extensive with the Group.
experience of the firms particularly in the listed environment and knowledge In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the committee and experience of the transport industry particularly the rail and bus sectors.
has, as part of its terms of reference, the following policy for the provision A recommendation was made to the Board to appoint Deloitte LLP, which of non-audit services by the external auditor: was approved.
Ernst & Young LLP will therefore resign as auditors with effect The auditor will only be used for the provision of non-audit work if it can from the 2015 AGM and a resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP as the Groups be demonstrated that the engagement will not impair independence, is a new statutory auditor will be put to the shareholders.
A planned process of natural extension of their audit work or there are other overriding reasons transition from Ernst & Young LLP to Deloitte LLP has been agreed.
that make them the most suitably qualified to undertake the work The auditor will not provide certain categories of non-audit services to the Group, such as internal audit, and litigation support: the full list of which can be found in the committees terms of reference The provision of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax services if the fees exceed a cumulative 50,000 is subject to approval by the audit committee.
In 2014, this was reduced from a previous cumulative of 250,000 The ratio of the external auditors audit to non-audit fees during the year, as a proportion of the annual external audit fee, is kept under review by the committee www.
com 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Andrew Allner Committee Chair Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director David Brown Group Chief Executive Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary BOARD COMPOSITION Leadership, talent and succession planning has The nomination committee considers that the Board consists of individuals been further embedded across the business.
with the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge to provide strong and effective leadership of the Group.
The Board of Go-Ahead consists of the DEAR SHAREHOLDER Chairman, three non-executive and two executive directors, who together bring During the year, the committee focused on the areas of work highlighted as a diverse and complementary range of backgrounds, personal attributes and a priority for the nomination committee in last years report.
The majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent with the Board, the committee continued to build upon the initiatives outlined non-executive directors.
The committee reviews non-executive director tenure in previous years, to focus on its own and senior management succession and skills set on a regular basis to ensure an appropriate mix of diversity and planning, leadership talent development and management pipelines.
experience aligned to strategy and business needs.
The time commitments The Board continued to monitor developments in corporate governance required from the non-executive directors are also reviewed as part of the to ensure we remain at the forefront of good governance practices.
example of this was diversity across the workforce where, with oversight COMMITTEE PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES from the committee, good progress has been made to review the The purpose of the nomination committee is to keep the Boards governance, strategy and guide policy for diversity and inclusion across the Group.
composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence and succession While the nomination committee met formally on only one occasion, this arrangements under review and to make appropriate recommendations figure does not depict the actual number of matters, such as succession to the Board to ensure the Groups arrangements are consistent with the planning, diversity and performance evaluation, that were discussed with highest corporate governance standards.
A full list of responsibilities is detailed the full Board throughout the period.
It is one of the advantages of a smaller in the committees terms of reference which are reviewed regularly, Board, in that such discussions are able to easily take place with all Board approved by the Board, and are available on the Groups corporate website members contributing to the debate.
There were no changes to the Board during the year however following the EFFECTIVENESS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE year end, the Board announced that Keith Down, Group Finance Director, The committees performance was reviewed both internally this year by the would be leaving the Group to join Dunelm plc as Chief Financial Officer at Group Company Secretary, and externally by Condign Board Consulting.
From the end of the calendar year.
At the time of this report being published, Russell both reviews, performance was felt to have improved with better information Reynolds Associates, an external search agency, had been appointed to assist flowing through both the committee and the wider Board, particularly in the the Board with the appointment of a successor.
Russell Reynolds Associates areas of succession planning, leadership and talent management.
did not carry out any other services for the Group during the year.
Full details of the process undertaken will be provided in next years annual report.
Andrew Allner, Nomination Committee Chair 2 September 2015 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 15 KEY AREAS OF FOCUS 2015 16 Deep-dive review of succession plans for key senior management roles Board composition and non-executive rotation in the context of business needs Leadership, talent and succession planning developed further and embedded Future orientated Group wide succession planning aligned to strategy Implementation of a range of successful diversity initiatives, including Further development of the leadership and talent framework and pipeline the diversity steering forum Development of the diversity initiatives in the bus division across the Review of the Boards diversity policy rail division and wider Group Improved the quality and flow of information to the committee Appoint a replacement Group Finance Director and facilitate his her induction to the Group The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 68 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our policy confirms that the Board aspires to maintain the current level of SUCCESSION PLANNING AND TALENT MANAGEMENT gender diversity going forward and, in considering appointments to the Board With oversight from the committee and the Board, the Group has fully and to senior management positions, will consider diversity across a wider embedded within its operating companies an annual leadership review.
range of areas including gender, background, skill set, experience and expertise.
This process identifies and addresses succession risks for the key roles Our foremost priority however remains to ensure that Go-Ahead continues beneath the executive director level and is regularly updated.
This review to have the strongest possible leadership and we will appoint only the most consists of two separate elements: appropriate candidates.
Succession planning to identify critical roles and succession risks at Across the Group, our vision is to be a leading employer in the transport Group and operating company level sector by creating a diverse and inclusive working environment where we A leadership programme to identify and develop potential successors represent the local communities we serve.
We recognise, in line with the for critical roles transport industry generally, that there are barriers to attracting, retaining and promoting women in the workplace.
The promotion of women to In addition, internal retention strategies were further built upon to include the Board and other senior positions within the Group is dependent on career planning, tailored personal development, secondments and improved the recruitment, development and retention of women in the workforce, incentive arrangements.
both across the Group and more widely through the industry and business The Board recognises that significant advantage is to be gained by identifying community.
Since the launch of the Board diversity policy in 2014, with the and developing our own people as well as bringing in skills from outside the oversight of the committee, a number of initiatives have been developed organisation.
and introduced to promote diversity further: Training, personal development and career planning are therefore an The diversity and inclusion forum established last year, with representatives integral part of how the Group equips people to do their job and encourage from the bus operating companies, has set targets for improvements with employees to build a long term career with the Group.
The objective is to drive champions across each business to sponsor local activities, particularly to high performance, develop the next generation of leaders, reward excellent attract women in driving roles performance and behaviour, and create an engaging culture where individuals A new diversity steering group was established to review strategy and and teams can be successful in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
guide policy across the Group and operating companies Our non-executive directors continue to engage with both senior management The leadership and talent programmes promote, encourage and support and the broader business.
This is something we intend to build on in the participants of all diversities, including gender year ahead and which we believe helps to inform the broader succession planning process.
The annual board evaluation process includes an assessment of the Boards diversity including gender, helping the Board to objectively consider its For further information on succession planning and our people plans, see pages 27 to 29 composition and effectiveness BOARD DIVERSITY DEVELOPING PEOPLE During the year a review of the Boards diversity policy was undertaken The Board recognises the importance of developing people across the Group with the conclusion that our approach to diversity in the Boardroom and this was a core topic discussed, in conjunction with succession planning, remained appropriate.
Consideration was given not only in relation to succession Our policy states that Go-Ahead recognises and embraces the benefits planning and the leadership review for senior positions within the Group, of having a diverse Board.
We believe increasing diversity at Board level but also the wider talent programmes and graduate schemes.
Focus was on is an essential element in maintaining a competitive advantage.
the development and implementation of a future focused resourcing strategy, We have one female non-executive director on the Board, with the to enable talent identification both inside and outside the business.
Encouraging percentage of female representation currently 17%.
While this is below the more local talent development will be key to providing additional pipelines.
recommendation of Lord Davies, which was that there should be a minimum In addition to maintaining the Group and bus graduate schemes, a rail graduate female representation on Boards of 25% by 2015, the Boards view is that this scheme will also be introduced.
level of female representation is appropriate at this time.
This is particularly in the context of the comparatively small size of Go-Aheads Board, which we feel is appropriate, with all the directors participative and accountable.
