DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 27 June 2015.
This report has been prepared in accordance with requirements outlined within MATERIAL INCLUDED IN THE STRATEGIC REPORT The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports The strategic report on pages 2 to 51 includes information on the following matters Regulations 2008 and forms part of the management report as required under that would otherwise be required to be presented in the directors report: DTR4.
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of this report can be future developments in the business: and found elsewhere in this document and is referred to below.
This information is greenhouse gas emissions incorporated into this directors report by reference.
DIRECTORS EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES A full list of the individuals who were directors of the Group during the Our disclosures relating to the diversity and equal opportunities, the number financial year ended 27 June 2015 is set out below: of women in senior management roles, employee relations and policies are included in the People section on pages 27 to 29.
Employees are kept Andrew Allner, David Brown, Keith Down, Katherine Innes Ker, Nick Horler informed of the performance and strategy of the Group through regular and Adrian Ewer.
interactive forums by the Group Chief Executive.
Established share schemes DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST encourage and support employees involvement in the performance of the Established within the Group is a procedure for managing and monitoring Group, through direct ownership.
There have been no significant changes to conflicts of interests for directors.
Full details of this procedure are set out our policies over the year.
in the corporate governance report on page 57.
PENSION DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The final salary section of the Groups pension plan closed to future accrual Details of qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of with effect from 1 April 2014.
Existing members were offered the opportunity the Groups directors can be found in the corporate governance report to join the money purchase section instead.
The money purchase section of the on page 59.
Groups pension plan was closed to new employees with effect from 1 April 2013 but existing members continue to contribute at their current contribution CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT levels.
A new workplace savings section was set up with effect from 1 April Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain 2013 for the purposes of auto-enrolment.
This provides a default investment parts of the corporate governance report to be outlined in this directors option and at least the minimum level of contributions as required under report.
This information is laid out in the corporate governance report, on Government regulations.
SHARE SCHEMES CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES EXECUTIVE SHARE SCHEMES All information relating to the Groups capital structure, rights attaching to At the date of this report, Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, as shares, dividends, the policy to repurchase the Groups own shares and other Trustee of The Go-Ahead Group plc Employee Trust, holds 0.1% of the issued shareholder information is shown on pages 153 to 154 and incorporated into share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, in trust for the benefit of the this directors report by reference.
executive directors of the Group under the LTIP and DSBP.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee and dividends are DIVIDENDS waived while the shares are held by the Trustee.
Our dividend policy is for progressive dividend growth whilst maintaining Vesting of awards under the LTIP and DSBP for the executive directors is dividend cover of approximately two times adjusted earnings, on a pre satisfied by market purchases of shares which are held in Trust.
IAS19 revised basis, through the economic cycle.
Details of the proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 27 June 2015 are shown on the SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN consolidated income statement on page 91 of the report.
The Company operated a Share Incentive Plan during the year under review, enabling employees of the Group to acquire shares in the Group.
In order to POLITICAL DONATIONS AND EXPENDITURE preserve certain tax benefits, these shares are held in a trust by EES Corporate It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and accordingly no Trustees Limited for participating employees.
Whilst these shares are held in such payments were made in the year 2014: nil.
Additionally, the Group trust, the voting rights attached to them will not be exercised by the Trustee did not incur any political expenditure as defined in the Companies Act 2006 or the employees for whom they are held.
As at the date of this report, 0.8% 2014: nil.
of the issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, was held by EES Corporate Trustees Limited.
In the event of an offer being made to acquire POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS these shares the employees are entitled to direct EES Corporate Trustees There are no other post balance sheet events.
Limited to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on their behalf.
SAVE AS YOU EARN SCHEME The Company also operates a Save as you earn scheme known as The Go-Ahead Group Plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave, the last launch was in February 2014.
Under Sharesave, all permanent employees who have completed at least six months continuous service with a participating company are invited to make monthly savings of between 5 and 50 for three years.
At the end of the savings term, participants have the choice of their money back, or to purchase Go-Ahead Group shares at a 20% discount to the market price set at the date of invitation.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 86
