Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that AUDITOR are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose Following an audit tendering process Ernst & Young LLP will resign as auditors with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, with effect from the date of the next Annual General Meeting: a resolution and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with to appoint Deloitte LLP will be put to the members at that Annual General the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
A resolution will also be proposed that the directors be authorised responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of to fix the remuneration of the auditor.
the Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and GOING CONCERN detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future The directors are also responsible for preparing the strategic report, development, performance and position, are set out in the strategic report.
The directors report, including the directors remuneration report and the financial position of the Group, its cashflows, liquidity position and borrowing corporate governance report, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 facilities are described in the financial review on pages 48 to 50.
In addition and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules [note 22] to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to corporate and financial information included on the Groups corporate website.
credit risk and liquidity risk.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Cash generation from the Groups bus and rail operations was excellent and of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the balance sheet remains strong.
Core financing is provided by a 200m sterling bond securing financing to September 2017 and committed bank facilities of 280.0m originally to July 2019, but subsequent to the year end, DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT UNDER has been extended to July 2020.
In July 2014 the 280m facility replaced a THE DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES 275.5m February 2016 facility.
The directors believe that the Group is well The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the current uncertain The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International economic outlook.
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and The directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in as a whole: and operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue The strategic report includes a fair review of the development and to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
performance of the business and the position of the Group and the DIRECTORS STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole together The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and DIRECTORS STATEMENT UNDER THE UK CORPORATE regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group financial GOVERNANCE CODE statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors are required to prepare Group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European The Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, Union.
Detailed below are statements made by the directors in relation to their balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary responsibilities, disclosure of information to the Groups auditors, going concern for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and managements report on internal control over financial reporting.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS Under Company Law the directors must not approve the Group financial DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, state of affairs of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the or loss of the Group for that period.
Companies Act 2006 of which the Groups auditor is unaware and the In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors are required to: directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
of the Group: By Order of the Board select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: Carolyn Ferguson, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Group Company Secretary requirements in IFRS as adopted by the European Union is insufficient 2 September 2015 to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
