38 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GovernanCe Continued 1.
Helen Gordon MrICS The Grainger NoN-ExEcutivE chairmaN Aged 57 chiEf ExEcutivE DEsigNatE Aged 56 appointment appointment Board Appointed to the Board in 2008, became Senior Appointed to the Board in November 2015.
Independent director in February 2014 and Chairman in February 2015.
Skills, Competence and experience The Board is responsible to Helen is a highly experienced, proven and well Skills, Competence and experience regarded real estate investor.
She has significant the Companys Shareholders Margaret has wide-ranging experience in a experience working across a wide range of real number of sectors and extensive knowledge of the estate asset classes, including residential property.
for the long-term success residential property market.
She has substantial This is combined with an extensive knowledge of plc level experience including chairmanship of both the City.
Helen is a Chartered Surveyor and before of the Group, its strategy, boards and committees.
She is chairman of STV joining grainger was global Head of Real estate group plc and holds non-executive directorships Asset Management of Royal Bank of Scotland values and its governance.
with SegRO plc and Taylor Wimpey plc.
She previously held senior property positions Honorary Professor of Real estate at glasgow at Legal and general Investment Management, University and an Honorary Member of the Royal Railtrack and John Laing developments.
Helen is E executive Committee Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
Margaret formerly currently a board member of the New Covent garden chaired the Olympic Park Legacy Company, english Market Authority, a Trustee of the College of estate a Audit Committee Partnerships, Barchester Healthcare Limited and Management and an Advisory Board member of May gurney Integrated Services Plc.
Prior to these Cambridge University Land economy department.
r Remuneration Committee appointments, Margaret had a long career in management consulting with Price Waterhouse rK Risk Committee Committee membership and then eglinton Management Centre, which she founded.
She sits in the House of Lords as an N Nominations Committee E independent peer.
Committee Chairman Committee membership N r 1 2 2. andrew Cunningham FCa, FrICS 4.
Mark Greenwood FCMa chiEf ExEcutivE officEr Aged 59 fiNaNcE DirEctor Aged 56 appointment appointment 3 4 Appointed to the Board as Finance director in 1996, Appointed to the Board as Finance director in became deputy Chief executive in 2002 and Chief September 2010.
Mark will be retiring from grainger executive Officer in 2009.
Andrew will be retiring at the end of 2015. from grainger in January 2016.
Skills, Competence and experience Skills, Competence and experience Mark brings extensive financial experience to 5 6 Andrew is widely recognised as a leader in the grainger from the property and construction sectors residential property sector.
He has extensive real in the UK and internationally.
He has substantial estate and finance knowledge, and also brings experience in senior finance leadership roles in a substantial executive leadership and listed company listed environment.
Mark has worked in finance since experience.
Andrew is a Chartered Accountant 1982 and held a number of senior positions within and before joining grainger was a partner in a Alfred McAlpine plc from 1989 to 2008.
He was predecessor firm of .
group finance director from 2007 until its takeover He is a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chartered in 2008 by Carillion.
From 2008 to 2010 Mark was 7 8 Surveyors and was member of the British Property finance director of the Middle east and North Africa Federation policy committee.
He is a member of the business of Carillion plc.
advisory boards of the Cambridge University Land economy department and the durham University Committee membership Business School.
E 9 10 Committee membership E Strategic report Governance Financials 39 5. nick Jopling FrICS 7.
Tony Wray 9. andrew Carr-Locke ExEcutivE DirEctor Aged 54 NoN-ExEcutivE DirEctor Aged 54 NoN-ExEcutivE DirEctor Aged 62 appointment appointment appointment Appointed to the Board in 2010 as executive director Appointed to the Board in October 2011.
Appointed to the Board in March 2015. with responsibility for property.
Skills, Competence and experience Skills, Competence and experience Skills, Competence and experience Tony brings extensive experience in a broad range Andrew has substantial experience in senior Nick has approximately 30 years experience in of senior operational and strategic leadership roles, finance positions in listed companies, particularly the residential property sector.
He has substantial in particular in public companies.
He was the chief in respect of the residential property sector.
He also knowledge and expertise in relation to residential executive of FTSe 100 water company Severn Trent has wide-ranging experience as a non-executive property transactions and asset and property plc from 2007 to 2014, having joined its board in director of public companies.
Andrew is a Fellow of management.
Nick was previously with CB Richard 2005.
He has also held director roles within Transco the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants ellis where he was executive director of residential.
and National grid Transco, and was a Member of the and was group Finance director at george Wimpey He is a member and former chairman of the Urban Water UK Board.
He has previously held Land Institutes UK Residential Council and was a senior finance roles at Courtaulds Textiles plc, diageo member of Sir Adrian Montagues committee that plc, Bowater Scott and Kodak.
Andrew was executive Committee membership reviewed the Barriers to Institutional Investment in Chairman of Countryside Properties until 2014 and Private Rented Homes.
is a non-executive director of dairy Crest plc.
He has a rK N also previously held non-executive directorships at Royal Mail Holdings, Venture Production and AWg.
Committee membership E Committee membership a r rK N 6.
Simon Davies 10. rob Wilkinson NoN-ExEcutivE DirEctor Aged 57 NoN-ExEcutivE DirEctor Aged 56 NoN-ExEcutivE DirEctor Aged 43 appointment appointment appointment Appointed to the Board in April 2011 and appointed Appointed to the Board in November 2012.
Appointed to the Board in October 2015.
Senior Independent director in March 2015.
Skills, Competence and experience Skills, Competence and experience Skills, Competence and experience Simon has significant experience of the investment Rob has substantial experience in real estate and Belinda has a wide-ranging experience and and fund management sector and a deep corporate finance.
Rob is a Chartered Accountant understanding of commerce, finance and business understanding of stock markets and investor and the Chief executive Officer of AeW europe, a operations.
She has strong experience as a board expectations.
He was executive chairman at leading european real estate investment manager.
member of other substantial listed companies.
Until Threadneedle Asset Management for five years until Prior to joining AeW europe in 2009, he was a 2010, Belinda was global head of deloittes Merger 2012, having previously been chief executive and Managing director with the goodman group and Integration and Separation Advisory Services.
He is currently chairman of also held investment banking positions at UBS and Prior to this, she held senior roles at Cap gemini JP Morgan Overseas Investment Trust plc and Sound eurohypo.
Rob is also Chairman of the green Rating and KPMg.
Belinda is a non-executive director of Oil plc and is also a director of Old Mutual Wealth Alliance.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc and Aviva UK Life Management Limited and LCH.
She was previously a non-executive Limited.
Simon will be retiring from the Board on director of Balfour Beatty Plc and Friends Life group 30November 2015. plc.
Belinda serves on the Advisory group of Audit Committee Chairmen at the Financial Reporting Committee membership Council and is a member of the governing Council of the Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation.
