40 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GovernanCe Continued thE BoarD Leadership The Board is responsible to the Companys Shareholders for the long-term success of the Group, its strategy, values and its governance.
govErNaNcE framEworK The role of the Board The Board provides leadership of the Group and, either directly or through the chairmaN operation of committees of Directors and delegated authority, applies independent judgement on matters of strategy, performance, resources including key appointments and standards of behaviour.
BoarD: The Board sets the Groups strategic Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors objectives and approves and monitors and five Non-Executive Directors business plans and budgets submitted by the Executive Directors and senior management.
The written statement of matters reserved to the Board is reviewed Board Risk and approved annually by the Board and Nominations Audit Chief Remuneration and Compliance a copy is available on the Groups website Committee Committee executive Committee Committee www.
co. uk or from the Company Secretary on request.
ExEcutivE committEE thE ExEcutivE committEE This is an advisory Committee that operatesunder the direction and authority of the CEO.
It oversees the day-to-day BusiNEss DivisioNal running of the business, ensuring strategic fuNctioNs: BoarDs: coordination and alignment.
It identifies strategic business development opportunities and monitors material Legal Risk and Retirement governance Solutions transactional projects across Grainger.
IT UK Residential DivisioNal opEratiNg BoarDs HR development aNDBusiNEss fuNctioNs Corporate Affairs Fund Management germany Finance Responsible for the oversight and dayto-day operation of the relevant division or central function to ensure they are operating effectively and efficiently, aligned to strategic goals and provide a competitive advantage to the business.
Strategic report Governance Financials 41 Chairman and Chief executive non-executive Directors The posts of Chairman and Chief The Non-Executive Directors are responsible thE DirEctors Executive are separate and their roles and for bringing independent and objective chairman responsibilities are clearly established, set judgement and scrutiny to all matters Baroness Margaret Ford out in writing and agreed by the Board.
before the Board and its Committees, using A copy of the written statement of roles their substantial and wide-ranging skills, 7 years is available on the Groups website or competencies and experience.
The key from the Company Secretary on request.
responsibilities of Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors The Chairman is responsible for running are set out in their letters of appointment Andrew Cunningham the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
and include requirements to: 19 years The Chief Executive reports to the Challenge and contribute to the Helen Gordon Chairman, as does the Company Secretary development of the Companys strategy: 1 month on matters of corporate governance.
Scrutinise the performance of The Chairman is the guardian of the Nick Jopling management in meeting agreed goals Boards decision making and is responsible and objectives and monitor the reporting 5 years for ensuring a constructive relationship of performance: and to Mark Greenwood between Executive and Non-Executive Satisfy themselves that financial 5 years Directors and for fostering an open culture information is accurate and that financial where debate is an appropriate balance of controls and systems of risk management Non-Executive Directors robust challenge and support.
Belinda Richards The Chief Executive is responsible for Senior Independent Director A copy of the standard letter of running the business and implementing appointment for a Non-Executive Director 4 years the Boards decisions.
He chairs a regular is available from the Company Secretary meeting with the other Executive Tony Wray on request.
The Non-Executive Directors Directors and the additional members of 4 years meet periodically without the Executive the Executive Committee, all of whom Simon Davies Directors present.
There have been two report directly to him.
In addition, he such meetings since 1 October 2014 and 3 years holds monthly meetings with each an additional meeting of the Non-Executive of the divisional boards to review all Andrew Carr-Locke Directors without the Chairman or the operational issues.
8 months Executive Directors present where the Rob Wilkinson Chairmans performance was discussed.
2 months Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is vanessa Simms will join the Board in available to Shareholders if they request a early 2016. meeting or have concerns, where contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve the issue or where such contact BalaNcE of DirEctors is inappropriate.
No such requests were received from Shareholders during the year.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual performance review of Male 7 Chairman 1 the Chairman.
