pEoplE fiNaNcial 42 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GovernanCe Continued effectiveness BoarD activity stratEgic fiNaNcial The standard Board schedule sets six Strategy, in particular the transition Performance of business divisions formal meetings throughout the year.
to a market rented business and The Groups debt and capital structure These meetings were duly held.
In addition, implementation of that strategy.
and hedging policy a further two meetings were organised at Part of this review included receiving The Groups financial results comparatively short notice.
The principal a presentation from the Companys throughout the year Managing Director of PRS business of such meetings being the Dividend policy ratification of the recommendations of JP Morgan Cazenove, one of our the Nominations Committee: brokers, gave a presentation regarding their view on the current domestic to appoint Helen Gordon as successor to govErNaNcE and international real estate asset Andrew Cunningham as Chief Executive: andequities markets Regulatory and governance issues to appoint Rob Wilkinson as an Material transactions and Shareholder relations and engagement independent Non-Executive Director: and business opportunities Freshfields, Graingers principal group to report Mark Greenwoods notice Competitor activity level panel law firm, provided training of retirement.
and updates to the Board on current Economic and legislative landscape The Board has a list of matters reserved developments in corporate and to it and a rolling annual plan of items for regulatory law, in particular in respect pEoplE of the Model Code on share dealing discussion, agreed between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The list of reserved Reports from Board Committees Executive and Non-Executive matters and annual plan are reviewed Director succession regularly to ensure all matters reserved to The development of the Groups opEratioNs the Board, as well as other key issues, are people.
The board also received discussed at the appropriate time.
At each Supply Chain Management a presentation from the Human Board meeting the Chief Executive provided Resources Director on talent Health and Safety, which included a a review of the business setting out how development across the Company presentation to the Board from the it was performing and details of strategic Health and Safety Director issues arising.
German Division operational and The Board Activity table sets out examples financial performance was considered of the range of subjects discussed by the closely throughout the year.
The Board Board, including details of the presentations also received a presentation from the Accounting Director on this matter given to the Directors.
This relates to addressing the action point in last years Information Technology projects annual Board review to increase the number across the Company of external presentations to the Board to bring alternative perspectives and viewpoints.
BoarD mEEtiNgs 2014 15 oct apr thE BoarD Nov may DEc JuN JaN Jul fEB aug opEratioNs mar sEp stratEgic govErNaNcE Strategic report Governance Financials 43 attendance table to 30 September 2015 access to independent advice All Directors have access to the advice and meetings Meetings eligible services of the Company Secretary who Executive Directors attended to attend ensures that Board processes are followed Andrew Cunningham 8 8 and good corporate governance standards Nick Jopling 8 8 are maintained.
Any Director who considers Mark Greenwood 8 8 it necessary or appropriate may take independent, professional advice at the meetings Meetings eligible Companys expense.
None of the Directors Non-Executive Directors attended to attend sought such advice in the current year.
Baroness Margaret Ford 8 8 1 Belinda Richards 7 8 Tony Wray 8 8 1 Simon Davies 7 8 2 Andrew Carr-Locke 4 5 Robin Broadhurst 2 2 John Barnsley 2 2 Ian Coull 1 1 1 B elinda Richards and Simon Davies were both unable to attend a single Board meeting called at short notice due to prior diary commitments.
2 A ndrew Carr-Locke notified the Company in advance of his appointment as a Director that he would be unable to attend the May 2015 Board meeting due to a prior diary commitment.
key metrics and specific papers relating Board committees The Board has established four principal to agenda items.
The Board papers are accompanied by a management Board Committees to which it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
information pack containing detailed financial and other supporting information.
They are the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nominations The Board receives a bi-weekly update from the Chief Executive throughout the year Committee and the Board Risk and Compliance Committee BRCC.
and occasional ad hoc papers on matters of particular relevance or importance.
The roles, membership and activities of these committees are described The Board also received presentations from various business units including: Human in more detail later in the Corporate Governance statement.
Resources, Legal, Risk and Governance, IT, Health & Safety and Private Rented Sector.
Information flow Time commitment The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures that the Directors receive The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors clear information on all relevant matters in a timely manner.
Board papers are circulated committed sufficient time during the year to enable them to fulfil their duties as sufficiently in advance of meetings for them to be thoroughly digested to ensure Directors of the Company.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has any conflict of informed debate.
The Board papers contain the Chief Executives written report, interest that has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with the Companys high level papers on each business area, Articles of Association.
44 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GovernanCe Continued Margaret Ford had been on the Board Induction and professional development aNDrEw carr-locKE The Chairman, supported by the Company for over six years when she took compaNy iNDuctioN over as Chairman.
This included time Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that induction and training are provided to spent as Senior Independent Director This year, Andrew Carr-Locke was and Chairman of two Committees.
The Company Secretary appointed and received a comprehensive, organises the induction process and regular Therefore she had a pre-existing deep tailored induction to the Company.
knowledge and familiarity with the updating and training of Board members.
This involved meeting with the Company Pursuant to the recommendations of last Group.
Consequently, her transition and Secretary to go through the Board induction to the role of Chairman was years annual evaluation, the Company Handbook which includes sections on Secretary has documented our existing focussed on Shareholder engagement and Directors duties, corporate governance, meeting major Shareholders and investors induction framework and related process.
share dealing, Company policies and the to further understand their prevailing use of the Companys electronic Board views.
In addition and to supplement this portal.
Andrew also received briefings change in role, meetings have been held from each of the Executive Directors with, amongst others, the Companys regarding Graingers business operations brokers, financial advisers and public as well as having a significant number relations consultants.
of sessions with individuals from across The inductions in respect of Helen the business to give him an insight into Gordon and Rob Wilkinson are underway the Group.
These include meeting senior and will be reported upon in next years managers from the following groups Annual Report.
and divisions: Training and updating in relation to a range of matters is provided to Legal, Risk and Governance Board members throughout the year.
UK Residential Subjects include the business of the Group, Private Rented Sector legal and regulatory responsibilities of Strategic Capital Markets Directors and Graingers sustainability programme.
This training and updating is Finance delivered by a combination of presentations Treasury by Executives and senior managers, visits Tax to business operations and circulation of Corporate Affairs appropriate Board papers and briefing materials.
Individual Directors are also Information Technology expected to take responsibility for Human Resources identifying their own training needs and Retirement Solutions to ensure they are adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities Germany as a Director.
Property Services The Board is confident that all its Property and Asset Management members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions In addition, Andrew visited Graingers required of a Director of a listed company.
offices in Newcastle, London and Frankfurt and that opportunity was used to be shown some of the Companys properties near each of these offices.
These included Graingers Macaulay Walk development in Clapham, regulated blocks in Waterloo and Mariners Cottages in South Shields.
Strategic report Governance Financials 45 pErformaNcE EvaluatioN As reported in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the annual board evaluation was externally facilitated.
There were a number of action points which we set ourselves for the coming year, and the table below specifies the progress made against those objectives.
action points from 2014 Evaluation progress report Chairman and CEO to consider More external presentations were made to the Board and its Committees than in the previous year.
These included presentations from brokers, lawyers and FCA compliance consultants.
The usage having more presentations from of external presentations will be a matter that the Chairman and CEO will consider regularly going external professionals.
The format of board papers has been standardised further withimproved signposting and layout for Adopt a consistent, focussed and information and decision making.
In particular, a consistent dashboard summary table for property succinct approach to format of investments and business opportunities has beendeveloped.
Review the decision making process A regular formal pre-Board meeting session attended by the Chairman, Executive Directors and the Company Secretary has been instituted.
The purpose of this is to identify those key points from the to establish a more structured Board Papers that Executive Directors wish to focus upon and have improved structure on those approach.
matters which are for information and or decision by the Board.
This has been positive in making Board meetings more efficient and focussed, with clear output of decisions.
The Company Secretary has led on documenting this existing process for usage in the future.
Formally document the existing director induction process.
Each of the Committees reflects regularly on what steps for improvement can be made to increase its Seek ways to continue to build effectiveness in implementing its role and functions.
This has included reviewing the format of reports upon the current exemplary work of and the usage of presentations by internal senior managers and external advisers.
2015 EvaluatioN The annual evaluation of the Board and Findings: action points: its Committees for 2015 was led by the Board meetings are conducted in an Review the structure and approach to Chairman and the Company Secretary effective manner which encourages Non-Executive Director training and through completion of a detailed open discussions with appropriate time development.
questionnaire relating to the effectiveness allocated to key issues and strategy The balance of skills and experience of the Board and its Committees and in particular.
for the business is currently very good.
thereafter individual meetings with each Succession planning is operating at a An assessment will be made to ensure of the Directors.
The Company Secretary high standard and the previous year has this balance continues to be effective in collated the results of the questionnaire shown that the Board and Nominations respect of a PRS focussed strategy and and these were considered by the Committee have the flexibility to deal implementation of it.
Chairman and reported to the Board with both planned and unexpected Build upon progress made in respect as a whole.
The overall results were succession matters.
of improving effective relations with positive and indicated that the Board, its Committees are working very effectively.
stakeholders, in particular with regard to Committees and individual Directors were communicating the Grainger business Good progress on the quality of all operating effectively and demonstrated model and PRS strategy.
board information has been made a commitment to the role.
The key which strikes an appropriate balance Continue to improve on progress findings and action points arising from the between being concise and having made regarding the quality of evaluation are summarised as follows: sufficient detail.
46 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GovernanCe Continued The review of the Chairmans performance, In addition, and in accordance with which was led by Belinda Richards as Senior the Code, as it will be their first AGM Independent Director, concluded that the as Directors of the Company, Andrew Chairmans leadership and performance Carr-Locke, Helen Gordon and Rob was effective and of a high standard.
Wilkinson will be subject to election bythe The Board and its Committees will Shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
monitor progress and continue their In light of the performance evaluation critical review of its effectiveness during summarised above and the provisions of the year ahead.
In accordance with the the Companys Articles of Association, prevailing provisions of the Code, it is the the Board recommends that all of those current intention of the Board that the next Directors proposed for election and external facilitation of the Board evaluation re-election are so elected and re-elected will be carried out in 2017, being three as applicable.
years since the previous external evaluation.
re-election of Directors We continue to adopt the recommendations of the Code that all of the Directors offer themselves for re-election annually, notwithstanding that the Companys Articles of Association require the Directors to offer themselves for re-election every three years.
Therefore in accordance with the Code, all current Directors will stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM, with the exception of Andrew Cunningham, Mark Greenwood and Simon Davies who are retiring from the Board in advance of the AGM.
