Strategic report Governance Financials 71 12 by her previous employer.
In making its LTIS The LTIS awards for the 2016 financial year estimate, the information considered Statement of implementation of included publicly available information will operate on the same basis as for the Remuneration Policy for 2016 2015 financial year and will be consistent relating to the performance of her former employer against the performance targets with the policy detailed in the remuneration Base salary policy section of this report other than originally set so that any compensation The base salary of Nick Jopling, Executive provided mirrored as closely as possible recovery and withholding provisions will, Director, will be increased by 3% with for awards granted in relation to the 2015 the value that she would likely have effect from 1 January 2016, in line with received had she remained in employment financial year onwards, now operate the standard increase that applied to all see below.
with her previous employer over the full staff.
For context, salaries were increased performance period.
This approach was It is anticipated that awards of 100% last year by 4% with effect from 1 January and 150% of salary will be made to considered appropriate given that the 2015 2014: 2.5% in line with the standard performance period for this award was Nick Jopling and Helen Gordon, the increase that applied to all staff.
new Chief Executive, respectively in the in the 35th month of the 36 months comprising the performance period Annual bonus current year.
In addition they will be given The annual bonus for the 2016 financial the opportunity of receiving awards of when she commenced employment with Grainger.
year will operate on the same basis as matching shares up to 30% of salary, as for the 2015 financial year and will be detailed in the policy section of this report.
Tranche 2: an exchange of the award consistent with the policy detailed in the There will be no change in the granted by her previous employer in 2014 remuneration policy section of this report performance metrics or weightings for the for an equivalent award of Grainger shares, other than recovery and withholding 2016 awards, which are described fully in having assessed the performance to date provisions will, for payments made in the policy table on page 59. of both companies so that a broadly relation to the 2015 financial year onwards, equivalent expected value is maintained Appointment of new chief executive now operate see below.
These shares will Helen Gordon commenced her The maximum bonus will continue to vest following an assessment of Graingers appointment as Chief Executive designate be capped at 150% of salary for the Chief performance against the LTIS targets set on 3 November 2015 and will become Executive and 125% of salary for the other for the 2014 award.
Chief Executive on the retirement of Executive Directors.
However, payments up Tranche 3: an exchange of the award Andrew Cunningham in January 2016. to this level will only be made in exceptional granted by her previous employer in Upon appointment to the Board her salary circumstances and the bonus performance 2015 for an equivalent award of Grainger has been set at 460,000 and she will assessments will be linked to 120% of shares that will vest based on Graingers receive pension, benefits and incentive salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of performance against the LTIS targets set opportunity fully in line with our approved salary for the other Executive Directors.
There will be no change in the In order to facilitate her recruitment, The number of shares comprising each performance metrics or weightings for Helen will also receive a performance tranche can only be set when the awards 2016, which are described in the policy adjusted and or related buy-out award to are granted to ensure that the value most table on page 58.
The targets themselves, replace the share award forfeited from her closely mirrors the replacement value of the as they relate to the 2016 financial year, previous employer as a result of joining awards that have been forfeited.
Full details are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
The buy-out, as far as practicable, of the awards will be disclosed through an However, retrospective disclosure of the is to be structured so that performance RNS announcement as soon as the awards targets and performance against them will related awards in her former employer are have been finalised.
be provided in next years Annual Report replaced with performance related awards The Remuneration Committee confirms on Remuneration to the extent that they of an equivalent value in Grainger.
that it is of the view that the package agreed do not remain commercially sensitive at The award will comprise three tranches with Helen Gordon is appropriate and that that time.
which will include: the Company is not paying any more than Tranche 1: an award of Grainger shares was necessary to facilitate her recruitment.
replacing the value of shares that the Committee estimated would have vested at the conclusion of the performance period relating to the 2013 LTIP awarded
