Strategic report Governance Financials 57 Summary of changes to the Board Shareholder engagement remuneratIonpolIcy As detailed in the Corporate Governance A key area of focus for the Remuneration report, the current financial year will see Committee and the Board during An abridged form of the Policy report that a change of leadership in the Company.
2015 was a Shareholder engagement was approved by Shareholders at the 2014 Our current Chief Executive, Andrew programme in connection with the Annual General Meeting, including the key Cunningham, will be retiring in January significant 29% vote against the Annual aspects of our policy, has been included in 2016 following nearly 20 years service with Report on Remuneration at the 2015 this report for the purposes of clarity and the Company, and Mark Greenwood, our AGM.
The Board values the opinions of transparency.
Where references were made Finance Director, will be retiring at the end its Shareholders and other stakeholders in the Policy report last year to specific levels of December 2015 after five years with and has proactively sought to understand of pay in 2015, these have been updated so the Company.
the reasoning behind this voting result.
that the report can be read in the context Andrews successor, Helen Gordon, The feedback we collected suggested of the 2016 financial year.
The original receives a base salary of 460,000 and that the primary issue related to a lack of Policy report, approved at the 2014 Annual pension, benefits and incentive opportunity robustness in retrospective annual bonus General Meeting, can be found on pages fully in line with our approved policy.
As a result, the Committee has 72 to 79 in the 2013 Annual Report and In addition, in order to facilitate her taken significant care in ensuring that the Accounts on the Companys website recruitment, Helen will receive certain narrative and disclosure levels in this years www.
performance adjusted and or related report have been brought into line with the The tables below summarise the main buy-out awards in order to compensate best practice expectations of investors in elements of the remuneration packages for her for awards forfeited from her previous order to address this issue see page 64 for the Executive Directors.
employer as a result of joining Grainger.
The Committee has taken considerable care The Committee is committed to in ensuring that the buy-out is appropriate maintaining an on-going dialogue with in light of our recruitment policy.
Details of Shareholders on the issue of executive the package and the buy-out awards are remuneration and we welcome any further provided on page 71. feedback you may have.
Marks successor, Vanessa Simms, will We look forward to your support on the receive a base salary of 320,000 and resolution relating to remuneration at the she will receive a pension, benefits and AGM on 10 February 2016. incentive opportunity in accordance with the approved remuneration policy.
Belinda Richards Chairman of Remuneration Committee 58 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GoveRnAnce continued Base Salary To provide a competitive level of non-variable remuneration aligned to market practice for similar sized Purpose and link to strategy organisations: to reflect the seniority of the post and expected contribution to the delivery of the Companysstrategy.
Basic salaries are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee annually with uplifts effective from 1 January being operation by reference to cost of living, responsibilities and market rates, as for all employees.
The basic salaries for the Executive Directors are eligible to be increased with effect from 1 January in line with opportunity the standard increase that will be applied to all staff.
Benefits To aid recruitment and retention of high-quality executives.
Purpose and link to strategy Car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, ill health income protection, travel insurance, operation healthcheck-up.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy To aid recruitment and retention of high-quality executives.
The Group will pay a pension allowance or contribute into a personal pension arrangement for all ofthe operation Executive Directors.
If appropriate, a salary sacrifice arrangement can apply.
opportunity The pension contribution or allowance is based on 15% of basic salary.
Annual Bonus To incentivise performance over a 12-month period based on a balanced scorecard performance agreement Purpose and link to strategy which is aligned to leadership, corporate strategy, innovation growth and external relationships reputation.
Ithas two financial performance measures that are linked to the strategic objectives of the Company and the KPIs through which those objectives are monitored plus an assessment of personal performance against objectives that are set for the Executive Directors that reflect the business targets and priorities for each year.
Performance measures are based on: operation 37.5% operating profit before valuation movements and non-recurring items OPBVM 37.5% return on Shareholders equity ROSE 25% assessment of personal performance opportunity Maximum bonus potential is capped at: 150% of salary for the Chief Executive 125% of salary for the other Executive Directors oPBvM 37.5% Actual OPBVM is compared to the budgeted figure that is approved by the Board.
Performance metrics Budget less 10% 0% vests Budget achieved 60% vests Budget plus 20% 100% vests Calculated on a pro rata basis RoSe 37.5% The calculation of ROSE is: Closing NNNAV dividends paid Opening NNNAV Less than or equal to 5% 0% vests Greater than 15% 100% vests Calculated on a pro rata basis Personal performance 25% Personal performance is assessed against individual personal objectives that are set at the beginning of the financial year.
The Chairman assesses the performance of the Chief Executive, and the Chief Executive assesses the performance of the other Executive Directors.
Strategic report Governance Financials 59 Long-Term Incentive Scheme LTIS To incentivise delivery of sustained performance over the longer term.
Purpose and link to strategy To encourage greater Shareholder alignment through personal investment in the Companys shares.
operation The awards are based upon the absolute levels of increase in both NNNAV and TSR.
Fundamentally, it was considered that absolute measures of performance were suitable because Grainger is unusual in nature and has no natural comparator group.
Grainger is the only listed company of its size to invest primarily in residential property assets.
All other comparably sized property companies are principally commercial and or development focused.
opportunity The awards are capped at 150% of basic salary for the Chief Executive and at 100% of basic salary for the other three Directors.
There is also a matching awards element to the scheme, where participants are able to pledge shares of equivalent value at 30% of their basic salary.
To the extent that performance criteria are met, these shares will be matched one-for-one at the end of the three-year performance period.
Performance metrics Awards are split equally between NNNAV and TSR.
TSR Performance conditions 50% Percentage of the TSR element of an award that willvest Growth in TSR over three years TSR base threshold for vesting is 5% with the maximum at 15% Less than 5% Nil Between 5% and 15% Pro rata vesting More than 15% 100% nnnAv Performance conditions 50% Percentage of the NNNAV element of an award that will vest Growth in nnnAv over a three-year period relative to the average of the Halifax and nationwide indices by a factor of: NNNAV base threshold for vesting where NNNAV growth exceeded the average Halifax and Nationwide indices by a factor of 1.5.
The maximum level occurs at a factor of 3.
Less than 1.5 Nil Between 1.5 and 3 Pro rata vesting Greater than 3 100% There is also a matching awards element to the scheme, to encourage executives to develop and maintain a shareholding in the Company.
Participants are able to pledge or buy shares of equivalent value to 30% of their relevant salary and to the extent that the performance criteria outlined above are met: these shares will be matched one-for-one at the end of the three-year period.
These performance criteria are believed to be stretching, but realistic, and to reward executives if Graingers return to Shareholders is significant in absolute terms.
The Grainger plc Company Share Option Plan CSOP To aid recruitment and retention of high-quality executives.
Purpose and link to strategy The CSOP is approved by HMRC under schedule 4 of ITEPA.
operation The Remuneration Committee has discretion to grant options under the CSOP, which awards will be subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the LTIS above.
The exercise price per ordinary share under an option is determined by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant but may not be less than the greater of: i the market value of an ordinary share as at the date of grant: and ii in the case of an option to subscribe for ordinary shares, the nominal value of an ordinary share.
opportunity Each Directors participation is limited so that the aggregate market value of ordinary shares subject to all options calculated as at the date of grant of each option held by that individual and granted under the CSOP or any other HMRC approved company share option plan operated by the Company or any associated company, shall not exceed 30,000 or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time.
60 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GoveRnAnce continued Savings related share schemes To encourage employees to make a long-term investment in the Companys shares.
Purpose and link to strategy All employees, including the Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the Companys Save As You Earn operation SAYE scheme and Share Incentive Plan SIP, both of which are approved by HMRC and subject to the limits prescribed.
SAYE: Participants may invest up to 500 per month or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from opportunity time to time for three or five year periods in order to purchase shares at the end of the contractual period at a discount of 20% to the market price of the shares at the commencement of the saving period.
SIP: Participants can invest up to 150 per month or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time in shares in the Company, and the Company will then, subject to certain limits, double that investment.
The Company may also allocate free shares annually on a percentage of basic pay, subject to a maximum of 3,600 or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time.
to provide reasonable compensation to the Approach to recruitment remuneration incoming Director.
When setting the remuneration package If the Director will be required to relocate for a new Executive Director, the in order to take up the position, it is the Committee will apply the same principles and implement the policy as set out in the Companys policy to allow reasonable relocation, travel and subsistence payments.
Base salary will be set at a level Any such payments will be at the discretion of the Committee.
appropriate to the role and the experience of the Director being appointed.
This may In the case of an employee who is promoted to the position of director, it is include agreement on future increases up to a market rate, in line with increased the Companys policy to honour preexisting award commitments in accordance experience and or responsibilities, subject to good performance, where it is with their terms.
Non-Executive Director appointments considered appropriate.
In relation to external appointments, the will be through letters of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors base fees, Committee may structure an appointment package that it considers appropriate to including those of the Chairman, will be set at a competitive market level, recognise awards or benefits that will or may be forfeited on resignation from reflecting experience, responsibility and time commitment.
Fees will be reviewed a previous position, taking into account timing and valuation and such other bi-annually.
Additional fees are payable for the chairmanship of Audit, Risk and specific matters as it considers relevant.
This may take the form of cash and or share Remuneration Committees and for the additional responsibilities of the Senior awards.
The policy is that the maximum payment under any such arrangements Independent Director.
which may be in addition to the normal variable remuneration should be no more than the Committee considers is required Strategic report Governance Financials 61 The Committee will consider whether a all relevant circumstances, in particular, Provision on payment for loss of office If an Executive Directors employment is departing Director should receive an annual having regard to the performance of the bonus in respect of the financial year in Company, the Directors performance and to be terminated, the Committees policy in respect of the contract of employment, which the termination occurs or in respect behaviour towards the Company during of any period of the financial year following the performance cycle of the relevant in the absence of a breach of the service agreement by the director, is to agree a termination for which the Director has awards.
Options under the Companys been deprived of the opportunity to earn HMRC approved share option scheme termination payment based on the value of base salary and contractual pension an annual bonus.
If the employment CSOP may be exercised early.
The policy is ends by reason of redundancy, retirement that the Committee should retain the ability amounts and benefits that would have accrued to the Director during the with the agreement of the Company, ill to exercise discretion in accordance with health or disability or death, the Director the rules but that performance conditions contractual notice period.
The policy is that, as is considered appropriate at the time, may be considered for a bonus payment.
would be assessed in the advance of early If the termination is for any other reason, exercise.
Options may also be exercised the departing Director may work, or be placed on garden leave, for all or part of any bonus payment would only be at in connection with a change of control the discretion of the Committee.
It is the or other corporate events and again the their notice period, or receive a payment in lieu of notice in accordance with the service Committees policy to ensure that any such policy is that performance conditions would bonus payment reflects the departing be assessed as at the date of the early agreement.
The Committee will consider exercise event.
mitigation to reduce the termination Directors performance and behaviour towards the Company.
It is the Companys policy to honour prepayment to a leaving Director when existing award commitments in accordance appropriate to do so, having regard to Any bonus payment will normally be delayed until the performance conditions with their terms.
Where the Executive Director participates In addition, where the Director may have been determined for the relevant period and may be time pro-rated, in one or more of the Companys allbe entitled to pursue a claim against the employee share schemes, his awards may Company in respect of his her statutory where appropriate.
The Committee will consider whether vest or be exercisable on or following employment rights or any other claim termination, where permissible, in arising from the employment or its share awards, including matching share awards, held by the Director under the accordance with the rules of the plan.
termination, the Company will be entitled Non-Executive Directors appointments to negotiate settlement terms financial Companys long-term incentive scheme should lapse or vest.
Any determination may be terminated without compensation.
or otherwise with the Director that the Committee considers to be reasonable by the Committee will be in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan, which in all the circumstances and in the best interests of the Company and to enter into have been approved by Shareholders.
In summary, the plan rules provide that a settlement agreement with the Director to effect both the terms agreed under awards can vest if employment ends by reason of redundancy, retirement, ill health the service agreement and any additional statutory or other claims, including bonus or disability, death or change of ownership.
Vesting of awards will normally be in payments and to record any agreement in relation to bonus and or share awards, in accordance with the normal performance cycle of the relevant awards, with vesting line with the policies described above.
The Company has an enhanced subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions.
Any awards redundancy policy allowing redundancy amounts to be calculated by reference to which vest will normally be time pro-rated.
The Committee will have discretion to allow actual basic weekly salary and the policy may be extended to Executive Directors a higher level of vesting if appropriate.
If employment ends for any other reason, where relevant.
the plan rules permit the Committee to exercise its discretion.
In doing so, the policy is that it will take account of
