Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION I am pleased to have the opportunity once again to introduce the The audit committee continued to review key accounting and companys corporate governance report.
It is vital to have a strong and reporting matters and further details are set out in its report.
effective governance system if the business is to be able to deliver its Likewise, the remuneration committee report sets out more details strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard our shareholders of its activities during the year, whilst the directors remuneration long-term interests.
Well balanced and effective boards, strong report includes details of the remuneration paid to directors oversight of risk management, alignment of remuneration policies duringthe year.
withshareholder interests and sound shareholder relations are all keyelements of our governance framework.
Two other areas of particular focus for the board this year havebeen the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc Spirit and In our corporate governance report and the reports from the board boardevaluation.
For the Spirit acquisition the board was closely committees, we describe the operation of the board and explain involved in the strategic considerations surrounding the proposed how we applied the principles of good governance set out in the acquisition, as well as having oversight of the processes followed code during the year.
toput together the formal takeover documentation.
One key priority this year has been the issue of board succession, The board also followed best practice and undertook an externally with John Brady retiring at the end of July 2014 and the facilitated board evaluation exercise, more details of which are set appointment of Rob Rowley as his successor.
The evaluation will be very useful in guiding future ways of working for the board and its committees.
We also had to respond to the illness of our group finance director, Matthew Fearn, who left the business in the autumn tofocus on his health.
Kirk Davis was appointed as our new chieffinancial officer Tim Bridge and joined us in November 2014.
Chairman Board independence current directors Statement of compliance with the UK CorporateGovernance Code Nomination Audit Remuneration Name Independent committee committee committee The company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code which is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and which is Tim Bridge available at www.
The code sets out guidance in the form chairman No of principles and provisions on how companies should be directed Rooney Anand No and controlled to follow good governance practice.
Companies Mike Coupe Yes listed in the UK are required to disclose how they have applied the main principles and whether they have complied with its provisions Kirk Davis No throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been Ian Durant Yes complied with companies must provide an explanation.
Rob Rowley Yes The board considers that the company has complied with the UK Lynne Weedall Yes Corporate Governance Code dated September 2012 throughout the year.
We will report against the revised version of the Code, which was published in September 2014, next year.
38 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The board Independence of non-executive directors In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, more Board composition thanhalf of the board, excluding the chairman, are non-executive As at the year end the board comprised the chairman, two executive directors.
The board is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors directors and four non-executive directors.
The board believes that were independent throughout the year, in that they satisfied the the structure and size of the board is appropriate and that no single independence criteria of the code on their appointment and individual or group dominates the decision making process.
continue to satisfy those criteria.
The non-executive chairman is Tim Bridge and the chief executive Tim Bridge, the chairman, was not independent on appointment, is Rooney Anand.
The senior independent director during the year having previously served as chief executive.
However, the board is was Ian Durant.
satisfied that he shows independent judgment, that his performance as chairman is effective and that he demonstrates continued John Brady, who was appointed to the board as a non-executive commitment to the role.
director in 2005, retired from the board in July 2014 and was succeeded by Rob Rowley, who also took over as senior independent Ian Durant was the senior independent non-executive director director from the beginning of the current financial year.
From the beginning of the current financial year this role was taken over by Rob Rowley, given Ian Durants upcoming Matthew Fearn, our chief financial officer, fell ill during the year and retirement from the board in March 2016.
Neither has ever been agreement was reached with him on 1 October 2014 that he should employed by the company and both have diverse business interests.
stand down as a director so that he and his family could focus on his The board considers that Ian Durant remained independent in both health.
The board appointed Kirk Davis as chief financial officer character and judgment, that his performance was effective and inhis place and he joined the board on 3 November 2014.
More that he demonstrated commitment to the role.
The board considers details on the board changes can be found in the nomination that the same applies to Rob Rowley.
As well assupporting the committee report.
chairman and acting as a sounding board for thechairman and an intermediary for other directors, a key responsibility for the senior The directors biographies are on page 37. independent director is to be available for direct contact from shareholders should they require.
GREENE KING BOARD The board is ultimately responsible for the long-term success of the company.
Its principal responsibilities are to: approve the groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy and the overall funding strategy: approve the budgets and financial statements, including the report and accounts: approve acquisitions and disposals: and oversee the groups operations and review performance in the light of the groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets.
Committees NOMINATION AUDIT REMUNERATION reviews structure, size and reviews and monitors full year and sets remuneration policy: composition of the board: interim results: sets executive director remuneration makes recommendations monitors internal financial controls: and incentives: forappointments: and oversees external audit relationship: and approves annual performance succession planning.
objectives: and oversees risk management.
approves granting of long-term incentives.
Members Tim Bridge Chairman Ian Durant Chairman Lynne Weedall Chairman Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Ian Durant Rob Rowley Ian Durant Rob Rowley Rob Rowley Lynne Weedall NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT PAGE 42 PAGE 43 PAGE 46 Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 39 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Leadership The board has responsibility for determining whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair balanced and understandable to Role of the board enable shareholders to assess the companys performance, business The board has collective responsibility for the long-term success of the model and strategy.
In coming to its view, the board took into account company and for its leadership, strategy, control and management.
its own knowledge of the group, its strategy and performance in the year, the guidance given to all contributors tothe annual report and The offices of chairman and chief executive are separate and distinct adetailed review by senior management ofthe overall content.
and the division of responsibilities between them has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
A key matter considered during the year was the proposed acquisition of Spirit.
The board determined initially that the proposed acquisition The chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of was consistent with the groups stated strategy.
It then oversaw the offer the board and for ensuring that each non-executive director is able process, reviewed the detailed documentation necessary to effect the to make an effective contribution to the board through debate and acquisition, including the merger synergy estimate, and received discussion with the executive directors.
He is also responsible regular reports on the regulatory process undertaken to obtain the forsetting the style and tone of board discussions.
necessary antitrust approval for the proposed acquisition.
More recently the board has focused its attentions on the planned integration The chief executives role is to develop the companys strategic direction of the Spirit business, and it will continue to oversee the integration and to lead senior management in executing the companys strategy to ensure that planned synergies are effectively captured and that the and managing the operational requirements ofthe business.
business is appropriately managed both during the integration period and thereafter.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are Other matters specifically considered during the year included carefully examined and fully discussed, that the performance of property disposals, financing, taxation, risk management and thecompany is monitored and challenged and that the financial keygroup risks, which are discussed on page 28. information provided is comprehensive and accurate.
They are also responsible for ensuring, through the relevant committees, that Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent appropriate remuneration arrangements are in place for the contact to progress the companys business and if necessary, board executive directors.
meetings can be held at short notice.
Where possible, however, ad hoc committees of the board are appointed to deal with matters which Operation of the board it is known will need to be dealt with between scheduled board The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for meetings.
It is expected that all directors attend board and relevant its consideration, including approval of the long-term objectives and committee meetings, unless they are prevented from doing so by strategy, approval of budgets and financial statements including the prior commitments.
If directors are unable to attend meetings annual report and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to inperson or by telephone they are given the opportunity to be the structure of the group and overall corporate governance issues.
consulted and comment in advance of the meeting.
It reviews trading performance and considers major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is set outbelow.
Nomination Audit Remuneration The board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing Board committee committee committee committees, details of which are set out on page 39.
Bydelegating key responsibilities to these committees, the board isable to ensure Executive directors that adequate time is devoted by board members tothe oversight Rooney Anand 8 8 ofkey areas within their responsibility.
1 Kirk Davis 4 4 2 Matthew Fearn 0 3 Day-to-day management and control of the business is delegated tothe executive directors, business unit managing directors and Non-executive directors certain key functional heads, who meet formally on a four-weekly Tim Bridge 8 8 4 4 basis together with other senior managers as appropriate.
3 John Brady 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 4 Mike Coupe 7 8 4 4 2 3 3 3 Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight times a year, with main meetings linked to key events in the companys financial Ian Durant 8 8 4 4 3 3 3 3 calendar, with the annual results and dividend being approved in 5 Rob Rowley 7 7 3 3 2 2 June or July and the interim results and dividend in November or Lynne Weedall 8 8 4 4 3 3 December.
Regular agenda items include an overview of the market and current trading as well as a detailed review of financial performance against agreed targets.
Kirk Davis was appointed to the board on 3 November 2014.
Matthew Fearn was granted leave of absence due to illness in March 2014 There is a two-day meeting for the board in February each year andstepped down from the board with effect from 29 September 2014. focusing on strategy, with the business unit managing directors and Matthew attended no meetings during his leave of absence.
heads of the main functional areas, namely commercial, HR and 3.
John Brady retired from the board with effect from 27 July 2014. property, attending for part thereof.
The strategy sessions include an in-depth review of relevant economic factors, managements 4.
Mike Coupe was unable to attend one board meeting and one audit committee projections for the medium term and provide the board with an meeting due to prior commitments with J Sainsbury plc.
opportunity to agree the strategic plans across all areas for the short 5.
Rob Rowley was appointed to the board on 18 July 2014. and medium term.
Following approval of the companys strategy, Board papers are circulated seven days prior to each board or budgets are prepared for the next financial year to be approved by committee meeting to ensure that directors have sufficient time to the board in April.
The board also has a programme to review each review them before the meeting.
Documentation includes detailed business unit and main functional area in detail on a regular basis, management accounts, reports on current trading, reports from with particular focus on the achievement of strategic objectives.
each business unit and main functional areas and full papers on The relevant managing director or functional head attends such matters where the board is required to give its approval.
meetings to present and answer questions.
The chairman holds regular, informal meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present and the non-executives also meet with the chairman andthe chief executive on an informal basis twice each year.
40 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Board effectiveness Communication with shareholders The board is keen to ensure that our shareholders have a good Board performance and evaluation understanding of the business and its performance, and that the The board conducts an annual evaluation of its own performance directors are aware of any issues or concerns which shareholders and that of its committees and directors.
This year, in line with the mayhave.
Communication with shareholders takes a variety offorms.
UK Corporate Governance Code, an externally facilitated evaluation has been undertaken.
Nigel Davies of NJMD Corporate Services Limited Institutional shareholders and analysts was appointed to conduct the evaluation, which commenced towards the end of the financial year.
The evaluation took the form of a detailed There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, questionnaire that all directors were asked to complete.
The questionnaire including meetings after the announcement of the year end and covered a range of areas including questions on board structure and interim results.
Analysts are also invited to presentations at those composition, strategy and financials, board processes, risks, the boards times and separately to analyst trips to visit our premises and hear committees and on corporate governance generally.
This was followed presentations on specific divisions of the business.
The board up with aseries of interviews of the directors by the external facilitator, receives regular reports and feedback on the meetings held whothen produced a written report for the board.
A number of between the executive directors and principal shareholders, observations relating to matters including training for directors, andcopies of analysts reports on the company.
the role of the senior independent director, diversity, succession plans and risk management were made by the external facilitator The senior independent non-executive director, Rob Rowley, is which will be addressed in the coming months, but there were no available to shareholders if they have concerns about governance areas of major concern identified for the board to consider, and the issues which the normal channels of contact fail to resolve.
evaluator concluded that the board was effectively run and administered.
In addition to the formal evaluation exercise there is an ongoing AGM dialogue within the board to ensure that it operates effectively The AGM is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly andthat any matters raised are addressed in a timely manner.
with private shareholders, who receive a brief presentation on the business before the formal business of the meeting begins.
They An appraisal of the chairmans performance was undertaken by also have the full opportunity to ask questions during the meeting thesenior independent director, Ian Durant, in conjunction with and to meet directors and senior management informally after the the other non-executive directors.
The performance of the executive meeting.
The board aims to ensure that all members of the board, directors is reviewed annually by the remuneration committee in including in particular the chairmen of the board committees, are conjunction with their annual pay review and the payment of bonuses.
available to answer questions at the AGM.
Training and support The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least twenty working The training needs of the board and its committees are regularly days before the meeting.
All substantive items of business at shareholders reviewed and each director is responsible for ensuring that they meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a remain up to date in their skills and knowledge of the company.
resolution to adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman announces Particular emphasis is placed on ensuring that directors are aware the results of the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been of proposed legislative changes in areas such as corporate governance, dealt with on a show of hands.
financial reporting and sector specific issues.
All directors are also encouraged to visit the companys pubs and restaurants and do so The next AGM will be held on 8 September 2015 at the Millennium throughout the year.
Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 0TF.
Details can be found in the separate notice of meeting.
Newly appointed directors receive a tailored induction on joining the board to acquaint them with the company, which takes the form of Website meetings with other board members and senior management, and the The company maintains a website www.
co. uk to provide provision of an induction pack containing general information on up-to-date, detailed information on the companys operations and brands, the company, its policies and procedures, financialand operational which includes a dedicated investor relations section.
All company information and a briefing on directors responsibilities.
Both announcements are available onthissite, as are copies of slides used RobRowley and Kirk Davis received appropriate inductions for presentations to investment analysts.
We are happy to answer onjoining the board.
questions by telephone or email investorrelations@greeneking.
co. uk or companysecretary@greeneking.
There is an agreed procedure, set out in writing, for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice Board committees at the companys expense.
Directors also have access to the services of the company secretary.
The company has in place directors The board has established a nomination committee, a remuneration andofficers liability insurance.
committee and an audit committee, each of which has formal terms of reference governing its method of operation.
Each of the terms ofreference, which have been approved by the board, are available Commitment and conflicts of interest on request or to download from the companys website and will All significant commitments which the directors have outside beavailable for inspection at the AGM.
Greene King are disclosed prior to appointment and on an ongoing basis when there are any changes.
The board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to their duties DTR disclosure and fulfils their obligations to the company.
The information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, thenomination committee report and the audit committee report, The board has the right, under the articles of association, to except for information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out approvepotential situational conflicts of interest.
A small number of inthe directors report.
such potential conflicts have been approved by the board following disclosure by certain directors, in each case with the relevant director not taking part in any decision relating to their own position.
Directors are also aware that the disclosure and authorisation of any potential conflict situation does not detract from their requirement tonotify the board separately of an actual or potential conflict in relation toaproposed transaction by the company.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 41
