64 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GoveRnAnce continued 2 Annual Bonus awards performance assessment for 2015 Actual performance against the targets set for 2015 are set out below straight-line payouts occur between the relevant performance points.
Exactly in accordance with the contractual provisions specified in Executive Directors service agreements and having reference to the Companys agreed policy for departing Executive Directors, Andrew Cunningham and Mark Greenwood were not eligible for a bonus in 2015 having given notice to the Company during the financial year to terminate their employment in connection with their retirement.
Grainger currently applies a similar policy to all staff where no annual cash bonus will be payable in circumstances whereby notice has been given by an employee to the Company to terminate his or her employment within the relevant financial year.
The detail below sets out the financial targets that were set out at the start of the year which were considered equally challenging to those set in prior years allowing for the prevailing trading environment and performance achieved against them together with the personal targets set for Nick Jopling and the extent of achievement against these.
out-turn % of max element Threshold Target Maximum 2015 Measure Weighting 0% out-turn 60% out-turn 100% out-turn performance Bonus 90% of budget 100% of budget 120% of budget 100.7% of budget Profit OPBVM 37.5% 91.1m 101.2m 121.4m 101.9m 61.4% out-turn % of max element Threshold Maximum 2015 Measure Weighting 0% out-turn 100% out-turn performance Bonus ROSE 37.5% 5% 15% 10% 48.1% The ROSE as detailed above at 10% was calculated from the closing NNNAV of 263p per share plus the dividend per share for the year divided by the opening NNNAV per share of 242p.
In respect of the personal performance targets set for Nick Jopling, these were assessed against a range of criteria approved by the Committee at the start of the year.
These targets are aligned to Graingers corporate objectives.
Delivery of strategy Target: Lead the strategic plan to secure a private rented sector portfolio of scale against the projected timeline.
Outcome: The completion of significant transactions and PRS developments throughout the year have resulted in a further c. 900 PRS units being added to the portfolio.
Such transactions include the acquisition of the major regional residential portfolio announced in February 2015 and the completion of Abbeville Apartments.
In addition, Nick has overseen the growth of a pipeline of c. 1,500 PRS units.
Consequently, significant progress has been made towards meeting this key strategic target.
Innovation and growth Target: Launch Graingers first Build to Rent project, Abbeville Apartments.
Outcome: The highly successful launch of a unique product in the market resulting in a marked increase in valuation.
Leadership and promoting high performance.
Target: To put in place operational plans to become Best in Class for the sector.
Outcome: Operational plans have been developed and implemented in order to maximise gross revenues.
These include a new IT strategy, customer service and complaints handling, and supply chain improvement.
