Strategic report Governance Financials 49 attENDaNcE taBlE audit Meetings Committee meetings eligible committee member member since attended to attend Belinda Richards report Committee Chairman April 2011 4 4 John Barnsley February 2003 to February 2015 2 2 Baroness Margaret Ford July 2008 to March 2015 2 2 Tony Wray November 2011 4 4 Andrew Carr-Locke March 2015 2 2 Both Belinda Richards and Andrew Carr-Locke have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
DEar sharEholDEr Committee meetings The Committee met four times during The Audit Committee plays a fundamental The Audit Committee the year.
The meetings were attended by role in ensuring that the interests of the Committee members, the Company currently comprises Shareholders are properly protected by Secretary and, by invitation, the Finance three independent monitoring the activities and conduct of Director, the Group Financial Controller, management and auditors.
It is responsible Non-Executive Directors.
representatives from the external auditors for reviewing the integrity of financial and the Internal Audit Manager.
Once a statements to establish that decisions year, the Committee meets separately and judgements are appropriate in the with the external auditors and with circumstances, and that the performance management without the other being of the auditors is effective.
The Chairman of the Committee Belinda richards Committee at Grainger works closely with Committee Chairman has regular quarterly meetings with the the Board Risk and Compliance Committee Internal Audit Manager.
BRCC to ensure that the systems of internal control and risk management are role and responsibilities robust and effective.
It is a policy that I, as Monitoring the integrity of the annual Chairman of the Audit Committee, am also and interim financial statements, the a member of the BRCC, and similarly Tony accompanying reports to Shareholders Wray, as Chairman of the BRCC is also a and corporate governance statements.
member of the Audit Committee.
I find that Reporting to the Board on the this approach assists significantly in properly appropriateness of the Groups implementing the roles and responsibilities accounting policies and practices.
of Committees and good governance.
In conjunction with the BRCC reviewing This report details the activities of the and monitoring the effectiveness Audit Committee that were undertaken of the Groups internal control and during the course of the year in fulfilling risk management systems, including our responsibilities.
reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and reporting all key risks.
50 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GovernanCe Continued Managing the internal audit function and approving their terms of reference and activitiEs of thE committEE their forward audit plan.
The Committee has worked largely to a regular and structured programme agreed To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and with the Committee Chairman, management and the external auditors at the start of the financial year.
The Committee considered, discussed and made decisions in relation removal of the external auditors and to approve their remuneration and terms to a range of matters throughout the course of the year, the most significant of which are specified below.
To review and monitor the external Reviewed and discussed with the Received reports from internal audit auditors independence and objectivity external auditors the key accounting covering various aspects of the Groups and the effectiveness of the audit process, considerations and judgements operations, systems, controls and taking into consideration relevant UK reflected in the Groups results processes, including: professional and regulatory requirements.
for the six-month period ending treasury management 31 March 2015.
To develop and implement policy on selection and supervision of estate the engagement of the external auditor Reviewed and agreed the external agents on sales of property to supply non-audit services, taking auditors audit strategy memorandum delegations of authority into account relevant ethical guidance in advance of their audit for the year property acquisitions, sales and regarding the provision of non-audit ending 30 September 2015. development transactions services by the external audit firm, and post transactional operational Discussed the report received from to report to the Board identifying any delivery planning the external auditors regarding their matters in respect of which it considers data governance audit in respect of the year ending that action or improvement is needed payroll analytics 30 September 2015, which included and making recommendations as to the comments on their findings on internal Considered the presentation steps to be taken.
A copy of the current control and a statement on their of the financial statements and policy is available on the Companys independence and objectivity.
announcements, in particular website http: www.
co. uk the analysis between recurring Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing who-we-are corporate-governance and non-recurring items.
policy and satisfied itself that this met board-committees.
The Committee was satisfied with FCA rules and good standards of To report to the Board on how it has managements presentation.
Reviewed the Companys tax policy.
Reviewed and agreed the forward To oversee the whistleblowing provisions internal audit plans and monitored Reviewed Graingers accounting policy of the Group and to ensure they are the progress against those plans at in respect of non-audit fees to auditors.
Gave oversight and received updates in Reviewed and approved the register of respect of projects to ensure continued non-audit assignments undertaken by effective and efficient financial the external auditors in the year ending operations and processes.
In conjunction with the BRCC Reviewed the Audit Committees terms considered the viability statement as of reference.
Reviewed the Companys investment appraisal process.
Strategic report Governance Financials 51 external audit and evaluation The Groups current external auditors are sigNificaNt arEas KPMG LLP KPMG who were appointed in December 2014 following a successful The significant areas considered by the Committee and discussed with the external tender earlier that year.
Following a auditors during the year were: period of shadowing the previous auditor, Property valuations: we received Considered the accounting treatment  LLP PwC, an reports from management on the of substantial transactions including orderly handover took place and the Audit assumptions to be used in valuing the any judgemental areas.
This included Committee is pleased with the insights Groups property assets.
In considering the re-acquisition of Equity Release that the new audit team offered and their the proposals we reviewed the Increments Limited as part of the performance to date.
An assessment of valuations and, for reversionary enforcement of security over that KPMGs effectiveness, performance, quality assets, the suggested discount rates company pursuant to a failure by and processes regarding the 2015 audit provided by the external valuers, Clifden Holdings Limited to pay will be carried out following its conclusion.
and confirmed that the external the deferred consideration by the A similar review was carried out by the valuers were sufficiently independent relevant date.
Committee in respect of the 2014 audit from the Group.
Managements Considered the classification of process, which included discussion with recommendations in relation to the the German wholly-owned assets Committee members and obtaining Directors valuations were scrutinised announced for disposal on 13 August feedback from senior management.
against external evidence and the 2015, and whether such assets should No material issues were raised and the verification work completed by the be classified as held for sale.
It was Committee would like to thank PwC for external valuers.
We were content after agreed that as at 30 September 2015, the high quality of service given to the due challenge and debate with the not all of the relevant criteria to make Company over many years.
such a classification had been satisfied, The Committee reviewed KPMGs Presumed risk of fraud in revenue and subsequently it was correct not to proposals for the audit and the audit recognition by overstatement and treat such assets as held-for-sale.
The Committee is confident that management override of controls: the appropriate plans were put in place to carry Committee considered the presumed out an effective, high quality audit.
risks of fraud as defined by auditing In respect of ensuring independence standards and was content that there and objectivity of auditors, the Audit were no issues arising.
Committee is responsible for reviewing this and ensuring this is safeguarded notwithstanding the provision of any other services to the Group.
The Board recognises the importance of safeguarding auditor objectivity and has taken the following steps to ensure that auditor independence is not compromised: As previously referred to, each year the Audit Committee carries out a full evaluation of the external auditor as to its complete independence from the Group and relevant officers of the Group in all material respects and that it is adequately resourced and technically capable to deliver an objective audit to Shareholders.
Based on this review, the Audit Committee recommends to the Board the continuation, or removal and replacement, of the external auditor.
52 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GovernanCe Continued The external auditors provide auditThe Audit Committee supports the Internal audit related services such as regulatory principle of regular re-tendering of audit Deloitte LLP are appointed by the and statutory reporting as well as services to preserve independence.
Internal Audit formalities relating to Shareholders and Under current regulations, the Company undertakes audits across Grainger other circulars.
will be required to retender audit using a risk-based methodology and in services no later than in 2024.
The Audit accordance with the changing risk profile The external auditors may undertake Committee will continue to monitor of the Company.
Individual audits are certain non-audit work given their regulation in respect of audit tendering.
supported as appropriate by specialist skills knowledge of the Groups businesses.
The re-appointment of KPMG for a and subject matter expertise.
Audits are This work may include due diligence further year will be recommended identified during an annual audit planning reviews, statutory assurance to Shareholders for approval at the cycle, which is informed by the results of engagements and tax services where 2016 AGM.
current and previous audit testing, the the calculations will not be used for Companys strategy and performance, the material entries to financial statements.
As referred to above, auditors may be risk management process and the plans of Such provision will however be assessed invited to tender to provide non-audit other assurance providers.
on a case-by-case basis so that the best services.
The Audit Committee give careful Additional audits are identified during the placed adviser is retained.
Prior to any consideration before appointing the year in response to changing priorities and such assignment being commenced auditors to provide other services having requirements.
All Internal Audit findings by the external auditor, approval of the regard to the policy and the matters listed are graded, appropriate remedial actions, Audit Committee must be obtained.
above regarding the preservation of auditor responsibilities and timescales are agreed This approval confirms that sufficient and independence.
This being so, the Group with management, and progress monitored appropriate safeguards are put in place regularly use other providers to ensure that and reported.
to ensure that auditor independence is independence and full value for money Internal Audits plans and resources are retained.
The Audit Committee monitors are achieved.
Other services provided by considered and monitored by the Audit the application of policy in this regard an auditor from time to time are generally Committee, together with all internal and keeps the policy under review.
limited to work that is closely related to the control findings and remedial actions.
The extent to which non-audit services annual audit or where the work is of such Internal Audit has a direct reporting line may be provided by the Groups auditor a nature that a detailed understanding to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
will be kept under review in light of of the business is necessary.
In addition, The effectiveness of Internal Audit is new restrictions to be introduced by as KPMG have recently been appointed assessed by the review of their reports, EU legislation which comes into effect as auditor, certain engagements were meetings with the Chairman of the in 2016. instructed prior to their appointment as Audit Committee without management auditor, and have been on-going since that The Audit Committee reviews on a being present, feedback from senior date.
In such cases it was decided that it regular basis all fees paid for audit, and all management and the Finance Director was in the Companys best interests for this consultancy fees, with a view to assessing to assess views on effectiveness of work to continue to be provided by KPMG reasonableness of fees, value of delivery Internal Audit.
in order to avoid unnecessary disruption and any independence issues that may and the additional costs of engaging a have arisen or may potentially arise in replacement adviser.
In respect of non-audit services, during The external auditors report to the the year, KPMG was paid 11,750 in Directors and the Audit Committee connection with UK employment tax confirming their independence in compliance services and 2,860 for accordance with Auditing Standards.
In addition to the steps taken by the Board to safeguard auditor objectivity, KPMG operates a five-year rotation policy for audit partners.
