Corporate governance REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE I am pleased to have the opportunity to introduce our nomination committee report for 2014 15 and to explain thefocus and the activities of the committee during the year.
Tim Bridge Chairman of the nomination committee The role of the committee is principally focused on the size, search, and produced a long-list of candidates for the role.
composition andstructure of the board.
To do that, its role is to Thechairman and other members of the nomination committee propose appointments to the board following aformal, rigorous interviewed a short-list of candidates and selected Rob Rowley andtransparent appointment process.
For the chief financial officer role, the search was conducted by Membership Hoggett Bowers, which has also signed up to the voluntary code During the year the nomination committee was chaired by TimBridge.
ofconduct on matters such as diversity for executive search firms.
The other members of the committee were John Brady until his Anumber of committee members met Kirk Davis prior to recommending retirement in July 2014, Mike Coupe, Ian Durant, RobRowley who him as the new chief financial officer, replacing Matthew Fearn joined the board and the committee in July 2014 and Lynne Weedall.
whosadly had to leave us because of his ill health.
Apart from the chairman, all members were considered by the board to be independent.
The committee also considered committee composition during the year.
On the recommendation of the committee, Rob Rowley was appointed as a member of the nomination committee and of the audit Responsibilities committee when he joined the board.
With his recent and relevant The role of the nomination committee is to identify, evaluate financial experience as former finance director of Reuters Group plc andnominate candidates for appointment to the board, to it is currently anticipated that he will take over the chairmanship reviewregularly the structure, size and composition including ofthe audit committee in due course from Ian Durant, who is due skills, knowledge and experience of the board and to make toretire from the board in March 2016.
No other changes were recommendations to the board with regard to any adjustments recommended to the composition of the board committees.
the year end RobRowley has also been appointed as a member of the remuneration committee, again on the recommendation of the The committee is also responsible for considering the companys nomination committee.
succession plans for board members and senior management, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the company, The issues of succession planning and board structure will remain the and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the board in ongoing focus of the committee during the course of the forthcoming year.
the future, and for reviewing membership of the boards committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed upon any individuals.
On the recommendation of the nomination committee, and taking into account the continuing effective performance of the directors, Activities during the year the board has decided once again this year to ask all directors to The committee held four meetings during the year.
Attendance atthese stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
meetings by the committee members is shown in the table on page 40.
Other matters considered by the committee during the year included the board evaluation exercise, training requirements With John Brady retiring from the board in July 2014, a key activity for the committee was to find a suitable successor to him.
When fordirectors and the committees terms of reference.
making new appointments, the policy of the company is to recruit on merit for each role on offer, whether executive or non-executive.
Diversity We set out a job specification and a profile of the likely characteristics, The board approves of the principle of trying to recruit more women qualifications, experience and merits required before starting a search, into senior management and director roles.
We currently have one and aim to find the individual who is best suited to the role, without female director on the board, Lynne Weedall, who is chairman of the prejudice between male and female candidates.
With a board of seven people, we believe the key is to ensure a suitable range of skills, experience and knowledge For our new non-executive director, the Zygos Partnership, which across the board members, and that the issues of gender and diversity has signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on matters such as are just two considerations to be taken into account when filling diversity for executive search firms, was appointed to conduct the board vacancies.
42 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015
