Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to introduce our audit committee report for 2014 15.
Thecommittee provides support to the board in performing its duties and, in particular, has responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management procedures.
Ian Durant Chairman of the audit committee During the year the committee has focused on the following key Operation of the committee areas: the year-end audit and interim audit review: the relationship The committee met three times during the year.
Attendance at with the external auditor: and the development of the internal audit these meetings by the committee members is shown in the table function.
During 2015 16 the committee is expecting to focus on onpage 40.
On each occasion the chief financial officer or interim therisk management and control internal control aspects of the finance director and senior members of the finance function attended, integration of Spirit Pub Company plc and the changes to the UK as well as the company secretary, head of risk and members of the Corporate Governance Code which will take effect next year.
The external auditors attended all of the meetings.
By rotation, operational managers present risk reports at audit committee meetings.
There is an opportunity at each meeting Membership for the committee to discuss matters privately with the auditor without The audit committee was chaired during the year by Ian Durant.
In addition, the chairman of the committee is The other members of the committee were Mike Coupe and in regular contact withthe external audit partner to discuss matters RobRowley, following his appointment to the board in July 2014. relevant to the company.
Details of the committees specific John Brady was also a member of the committee prior to his responsibilities and how the committee exercised those responsibilities retirement in July 2014.
All members are considered by the board are set out in the remainder of this report.
The committees detailed tobe independent.
The board is satisfied that Ian Durant has recent terms of reference are available on the companys website and these are and relevant financial experience, as the former finance director of reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the responsibility Liberty International plc, since renamed as Intu Properties PLC, and regulation of the committee, including as a result of regulatory and the current audit committee chairman at Home Retail Group plc.
In addition, the committee conducts a review of its own performance on an annual basis, taking input from the members Responsibilities ofthe committee, the external auditor and senior members of the finance function, and assesses developments made over the course The audit committee has responsibility for reviewing financial of the year and where improvements might be made in future.
reporting, controls and risk management processes across the group.
As part of its role, the committee assesses the external audit conclusions on both the full year and interim results, in each case Financial statements and audit prior to their submission to the board.
The board has continued to Before the start of the audit cycle, the committee reviewed the undertake the required assessment that the annual report is fair, auditplan presented by the external auditor and agreed the scope balanced and understandable and consequently does not ask the ofthe audit work.
In reviewing the financial statements the audit committee to advise it on this.
The committee reviews the committee reviewed the accounting policies to ensure consistency companys internal control systems, advises the board on the on a year-to-year basis and across the group, and the methods used appointment of external auditor, oversees the relationship with to account for significant or unusual transactions.
Significant issues theexternal auditors, and reviews the quality and effectiveness of that the committee addressed in relation to the financial statements both the internal and the external audit.
The committee is also are set out in the table below.
The committee also reviewed responsible for considering the companys whistle blowing procedures managements attestation paper setting out the information that and reviewing their effectiveness in practice.
In relation to risk had been provided to the auditor to enable it to form its opinion on matters, the committee also reviews the groups risk management thegroups financial statements and demonstrating thatit was policies and procedures prior to submission to the board and receives appropriate for the directors to make the representations set out detailed reports on the risk management processes within the inthe letter of representation.
business units and key functional areas.
Thecommittee receives regular updates on regulatory, accounting and reporting developments and their application to the company.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 43 Corporate governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Significant issues considered by the audit committee in relation to the financial statements for 2014 15 Matter considered What the committee did Uncertain tax positions A detailed review of several uncertain tax positions, which have not yet been agreed or are in dispute with HMRC, was undertaken by the committee.
The current status of each item was noted by the committee and consideration was given to the views of the groups specialist advisers as to the most likely outcome for each.
Particular attention was paid to the largest of these, an internal funding arrangement undertaken in 2003 4, known as Sussex.
The committee satisfied itself that appropriate provisions were in place in respect of the uncertain tax positions following discussion with the external auditor and, in particular, that the increase in the year was appropriate.
Impairment of property, plant The committee considered two detailed reports, prepared by management, concerning the andequipmentand goodwill methodology used to determine the extent of any impairment required.
Questions raised by the committee included those over the underlying growth rates and the changes thereto as applied to the retail estate, the discount rate and the process for review.
The committee also questioned managements reviews on a site by site basis and the expected timetable for disposals of non-core sites.
Managements proposals were also discussed with the external auditors and the committee took into account their views on the questions raised.
Following the review and discussions the committee concluded that an impairment of 27.4m was appropriate in relation to property, plant and equipment.
As regards goodwill, it was determined that 2.9m should be written off in relation to disposals undertaken during the year.
Funding headroom and covenants The committee reviewed the groups funding headroom and covenants in conjunction with the review of the use of the going concern assumption, and extended this to cover the enlarged group following the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc.
As part of the review, the committee challenged managements projections, assumptions and stress testing, as well as the extent to which mitigating actions would achieve the desired outcomes.
Thecommittee took into account the external auditors comments on its own work onthis issue.
Accounting for supplier income In light of recent market awareness of the issue, the committee requested a specific andcustomerrebates reviewby the groups internal audit function of the groups accounting for supplier income, including listing fees, performance fees and volume rebates.
The committee noted that theannual value of such fees and rebates amounted to approximately 12m, and that such income is not recognised until it can be reliably estimated.
Aseparate report on customer rebates was also considered by the committee.
Such rebates amounted to 20m in the year.
The committee was satisfied that the current controls in place provided reasonable assurance that the risks associated with these areas are being appropriately managed.
Onthe recommendation of the internal audit function, the committee requested that  be maintained.
Work estimated to cost in excess of 25,000 is put out to tender Effectiveness of external audit unless agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit committee.
After the 2013 14 audit was completed a review of the effectiveness The finance director may approve specific engagements up to of the auditor and of the audit service was undertaken, supported 50,000 in aggregate up to 100,000 p. a., and the chairman of by a questionnaire completed by the audit committee chairman, theaudit committee may approve engagements up to 100,000 theinterim finance director, and a number of key members of the inaggregate up to 200,000 p. a., with fees in excess of those finance team involved in the preparation of the statutory accounts.
limits being subject to approval of the full committee.
The overall quality of the service, the audit partner and the audit team were all reviewed and matters such as the management ofthe During the year the company made use of specialist teams within audit team, the quality of its challenge, insight and communications Ernst & Young for non-audit work.
Taxation advisory support was and the cost-effectiveness of the audit were considered.
Taking into provided until 31 July 2014, in relation to tax matters on which account the internal review and the outcome of the Financial Ernst & Young specialists had originally advised.
Reporting Councils FRC Audit Quality Review Teams review ofErnst & Young the committee was satisfied that the quality Ernst & Young were also appointed as reporting accountants on the oftheaudit service provided by Ernst &Young was appropriate.
acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc.
This is a role conventionally The feedback from the review was also provided to Ernst & Young.
The board considered the appropriateness of The maintenance of audit independence was also considered appointing Ernst & Young for this work and the risks to Ernst & Youngs andiscovered in more detail below.
independence and the committee assessed the steps taken by Ernst & Young to ensure the continuing independence of the audit partner Ensuring external auditor independence and audit team.
The board then concluded that there were significant The audit committee is cognisant of the importance of auditor benefits of using Ernst & Young, including the ability to proceed independence and objectivity and accordingly has an established quickly, added efficiency from existing knowledge of the company, policy in relation to the use of the auditor for non-audit work.
and tighter confidentiality by minimising the number of parties involved.
Thecompany will award non-audit work to the firm which provides Thus the board approved the appointment of Ernst & Young to the the best commercial solution for the work in question, taking into role of reporting accountants to this acquisition.
This resulted in a account the skills and experience of the firm and if the audit firm high ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees.
However the committee isbeing considered the nature of the services involved, the level has noted that this level of fee isnot material to Ernst & Young, and offees relative to the audit fee and whether there are safeguards in isnot likely to recur regularly.
The total fees paid to Ernst & Young place to mitigate to an acceptable level any threat to objectivity and during the year amounted to1.63m, ofwhich1.30m related independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from such services.
44 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The committee has in place a policy in relation to the appointment of Internal control and risk management former partners or employees of the auditor by the group.
The policy The board has overall responsibility for the groups risk provides that audit partners will not be offered employment by management framework and systems of internal control and for Greene King or any of its subsidiary undertakings within two years reviewing their effectiveness, whilst the audit committee monitors of undertaking any role on the audit.
Other key team members will and reviews those internal controls and risks on a regular basis, and not be offered employment by Greene King within six months of reports to the board on its findings.
During the course of the year undertaking any role on the audit.
Other audit team members who the committee reviewed in detail reports from a number of business accept employment by Greene King must cease activity on the audit units and functional areas on their respective risk management immediately they tender their resignation to the audit firm.
No processes and key risks.
Representatives of the relevant business members of the audit team have joined Greene King in the period.
unit or functional area attended those meetings to present the reports and answer questions from the committee.
External auditor tendering and re-appointment A summary of the risk management framework is set out on page 28.
The company last tendered the external audit contract in 1997 and The risk management framework and internal control systems are Ernst & Young have been the auditor since then, with an annual designed to manage to an acceptable level, and not to eliminate, the rolling contract and subject to an annual shareholder vote at the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can provide reasonable, AGM.
Ernst & Young are required to rotate the audit partner but not absolute, assurance that the groups assets are safeguarded responsible for the group every five years and the current audit and that the financial information used within the business and partners term will end after the 2015 16 audit.
The committee forexternal reporting is reliable.
continues to monitor legislative and best practice changes in this area.
It remains the boards intention to put the audit of the group The company has in place procedures to assess the key risks to which it and subsidiary accounts out to tender with a view to any change is exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address taking effect for the 2016 17 statutory accounts, to coincide with these and other issues.
There are processes in place which accord with the theend of the current audit partners five-year term.
Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Guidance to Directors, and these remained in place up to the date ofthis report.
The board is The board, however, will consider the implications of the transitional satisfied that there are no significant weaknesses in these systems and provisions in the EU and Competition and Markets Authority that the groups internal controls are operating effectively.
The committee regulation on audit matters, which would allow a further period until acknowledges that the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal April 2024 before an audit tender and change would be required.
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting will replace the Internal Control: Guidance to Directors for the forthcoming year In light of the assessment described above, the committee wassatisfied and will work with management to ensure compliance.
that auditor independence and objectivity was safeguarded and that it was appropriate to recommend to the boardErnst & Youngs The key elements of the internal control framework are: re-appointment as auditor.
This resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
the schedule of matters reserved for the board: the groups defined management structure with suitable authority Internal audit limits and responsibilities, staffed by appropriate personnel: The committee reviewed the companys internal audit function, regular updates for the board on strategy: which, during the year, extended its remit to cover central functions as well as the groups Retail division.
Under the terms of reference a comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedure for the function, the internal audit team has direct access to the including annual budgets and a three-year strategic plan, both audit committee chairman to enable it to raise any significant ofwhich are reviewed and approved by the board: issues.
Members of the internal audit team also attend the audit ongoing monitoring by both the board and senior management of committee meetings to report on the progress and actions taken by performance against budgets, through the periodic reporting of the function.
During the year, the internal audit function reported detailed management accounts and key performance indicators: to the committee on a number of areas making recommendations for improvements in a number of areas, including supplier income, ongoing monitoring by the board of compliance with customer rebates and free trade loans.
financialcovenants: a centralised financial reporting system and close process, Other matters withcontrols and reconciliation procedures designed to facilitate The committee reviewed, as it does on an annual basis, the groups the production of the consolidated accounts: whistle blowing policy and its application across the business.
clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions Allwhistle blowing reports were investigated and resolved and disposals, capital expenditure and project control, with satisfactorily, with no significant issues emerging.
escalating levels of authority including board approval for major acquisitions and disposals, detailed appraisal and review The committee has continued to review the issue of cyber security procedures and post-completion reviews: and receives regular reports from the internal data governance committee with additional continuing dialogue when threats are review of retail operational compliance by the retail internal identified.
In addition, the committee reviewed the companys audit team responsible and other analytical and control hedging strategy and use of derivatives including the accounting procedures facilitated by the EPOS till system: forderivatives.
audits conducted by the group internal audit function of business and functional control environments: and The terms of reference of the committee were also reviewed during the year and an exercise was undertaken to assess the effectiveness documented policies to cover bribery and whistle blowing of the audit committee itself.
andregular updates on any incidents.
The previous group finance director stepped down from the board The company completed the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc in September 2014 following a period of extended leave of absence following the year end.
The audit committee is mindful that there for health reasons.
The audit committee was satisfied that the will be extensive work undertaken during the integration of the arrangements put in place during his absence ensured the continued business and this will be one of the focuses of the committee during appropriate leadership of the finance function and maintained the 2015 16 financial year.
effective levels of internal control.
Kirk Davis was appointed chieffinancial officer in November 2014.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 45
