Strategic report Governance Financials 47 consideration and approval.
A fundamental Internal control The Board is responsible for reviewing and part of the control process is the diligent accountability monitoring of actual performance approving the Groups system of internal control and its adequacy and effectiveness.
against this budget by the Board.
Where applicable, revisions are made to The Group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing and managing its expected out-turn against which further progress can be monitored.
A detailed significant risks, which has been in place for the full year under review and up to monthly management information pack is prepared which covers each major the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is designed to area of the business and that includes detailed consolidated results and financial enable the Board to be confident that such risks are mitigated or controlled as far as information for the business as a whole.
The performance of each business area possible.
It should be noted, however, that no system can eliminate the risk of failure to is reviewed monthly by both divisional management and the Executive Directors achieve business objectives entirely and can only provide reasonable and not absolute and is subsequently reported to the Board.
The Board also discusses in detail the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The BRCC is delegated the task projected financial impact of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, of reviewing all identified risks, with the ultimate key risks retained for full Board including their financing.
All such proposed substantial investments are considered review.
Both the Audit Committee and the BRCC report to the Board at every by all Directors.
Where meetings are required between Board meetings and Board meeting subsequent to a meeting of those Committees.
Risks and controls are a full complement of Directors cannot be achieved, a committee of Directors reviewed to ensure effective management of appropriate strategic, financial, considers the necessary formalities.
The Board is also responsible for reviewing operational and compliance issues.
The Audit Committee also reviews the and approving the Groups treasury strategy, including mitigation against half year and full year financial statements, which include the results of our associate changes in interest rates.
The Groups processes for internal control have been and joint ventures, which are subject to the same internal controls as within the Group.
in place throughout the year and have sought to implement the FRC Guidance In addition, the Group has an internal audit function that performs relevant on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
reviews as part of a programme approved by the Audit Committee.
The Committee Further details are contained in the Audit Committee report and the BRCC report.
considers any issues or risks arising from an internal audit review, so that The Board regularly reviews the Groups processes for internal control and conducts appropriate actions are undertaken to ensure satisfactory resolution.
The Internal a formal annual review of these processes and the risks relating to the business.
Audit Manager has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from this review in the year.
A detailed annual budget is produced each year, together with longer-term projections in accordance with the agreed strategy, which are presented to the Board for 48 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GovernanCe Continued as Chairman, Margaret Ford held The Groups website includes a specific and relations with Shareholders The Board of Grainger believes that numerous meetings with major investors comprehensive investor relations section, to discuss their views on Grainger and containing all RNS announcements, share understanding the views of its Shareholders is a fundamental principle of good its performance.
price information, annual documents Examples of the issues raised as available for download and similar corporate governance therefore strong engagement with stakeholders and part of Shareholder engagement materials.
All the Directors, standing for programme include: election or re-election as applicable, intend investors is key to achieving this and progressing the business and its strategy.
Graingers future strategy in market to be in attendance at the 2016 AGM rented assets and how this relates to the and to be available to answer questions.
The framework of investor relations is set around the financial reporting existing business All hareholders have the opportunity to attend the AGM, which continues as a calendar, with additional engagement Graingers view on likely House taking place throughout the year when route for communication with smaller and Price Inflation private shareholders.
regarded as beneficial to the Company.
The Companys capital structure, in Grainger has held more than 100 meetings The notice of meeting and Annual particular discussion of share buy-backs Report and Accounts are sent out at least with Shareholders, analysts and potential Optimal overall debt levels and cost investors in the year, in addition to the usual 20 working days before the meeting.
of debt Separate votes are held for each proposed half-yearly results announcements and briefings.
Andrew Cunningham and Mark resolution, including the approval of the The impact of wider monetary policy Remuneration Committee report.
A proxy Greenwood have held the vast majority of on Grainger these meetings and manage the Groups count is given in each case after the voting The strategic role of business divisions, on a show of hands.
Grainger includes, as investor relations programme with the inparticular Germany Director of Corporate Affairs.
Feedback is standard, a vote withheld category, in line Director succession, in particular in with best practice.
always sought following such meetings, respect of Chairman and CEO which is then presented to the Board.
Shareholders are also able to lodge their Directors remuneration votes through the CREST system.
In addition Robin Broadhurst, the previous Chairman, Baroness Ford in her capacity Results of the external board evaluation Substantial shareholdings at the time as Senior Independent Director and the change in auditors from PwC As at 30 September 2015 and 31 October and as Chairman of the Remuneration to KPMG 2015 being the latest practicable date prior Committee and the Company Secretary An area of particular focus in relation to to the date of this report, the Company is also met and had conference calls with Shareholder engagement in 2015 has been aware of the following interests amounting a combination of fund managers and in connection with the significant 29% to 3% or more in the Companys shares: corporate governance officers of the vote against the Directors Remuneration Companys major Shareholders in advance report received at the 2015 AGM.
It is anticipated that the shareholder engagement in respect of a similar pre-AGM engagement process this issue are specified in the Remuneration will take place in advance of the 2016 Committee report.
Subsequent to her appointment 30 September 2015 31 october 2015 Holding Holding holding holding million % million % Schroder Investment Management Ltd 77.7 18.6 77.2 18.5 BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 28.7 6.9 28.2 6.9 Aberforth Partners 14.2 3.4 14.2 3.4 Crystal Amber Advisers UK Ltd 14.2 3.4 14.2 3.4 State Street Global Advisers Ltd 13.3 3.2 13.4 3.2
