Strategic report Governance Financials 53 attENDaNcE taBlE nominations Meetings Committee meetings eligible to committee member member since attended attend Baroness Margaret Ford report Committee Chairman February 2012 4 4 Belinda Richards February 2014 4 4 Tony Wray February 2014 4 4 Andrew Carr-Locke March 2015 2 2 DEar sharEholDEr Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board candidates to fill The Nominations Committee plays The Nominations Board vacancies.
a fundamental role in ensuring the Committee currently Review annually the time commitment selection and recommendation of strong required of Non-Executive Directors.
candidates for appointment to the Board.
comprises the Chairman The Committee monitors the balance Make recommendations for the of the Board and three of skills, experience, independence Board, in consultation with the independent Non-Executive and knowledge of the Board and respective Committee Chairman its Committees, with any changes regarding membership of the four Directors.
recommended to the Board for its review Board Committees.
The Committee is also Process for Board appointments responsible for succession planning and Prior to making an appointment, the monitors talent development at senior Nominations Committee will evaluate Baroness Margaret Ford management level.
It has been a particularly Committee Chairman the balance of skills, knowledge and busy year for the Nominations Committee, experience on the Board.
Pursuant to this dealing with succession and Board change evaluation, a specification of the personal at positions of Chairman, Executive Director attributes, experience and capabilities and Non-Executive Director, as well as required to effectively perform the substantial changes to the membership relevant appointment will be drafted.
This report details The Committee will also make any the main activities of the Nominations recommendations to the Board concerning Committee that were undertaken the appointment of any Director and during the course of the year in fulfilling Company Secretary.
where an external recruitment or Key responsibilities benchmarking an internal candidate is The key responsibilities of the Committee appropriate, the Committee will engage are to: the services of an independent external Review the size, balance and search consultancy to assist in preparing the constitution of the Board including appointment specification.
the diversity and balance of skills, Main activities of the Committee knowledge and experience of the duringthe year Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met formally four times Consider succession planning for during the year to 30 September 2015.
Directors and other senior executives.
The Committee has a number of standing agenda items which relate to its key 54 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GovernanCe Continued responsibilities detailed above.
In applying as interim Chairman.
Due to on-going experience, it was subsequently decided those responsibilities, the Committee health issues, Ian was unable to return to appoint Andrew Carr-Locke as a considered, discussed and made decisions to the Board and resigned his position as member of the Risk and Compliance, in relation to a range of matters throughout a Director in June 2015.
Consequently, Nomination, Remuneration and the course of the year, the most significant it was agreed that due to her extensive Audit Committees.
of which are specified below: relevant experience, skills and personal Mark Greenwood retired from the Risk attributes, Baroness Ford would become and Compliance Committee, it being Board changes Chairman on a permanent basis.
agreed that it should be comprised of Andrew Cunningham gave notice of his Following previous reporting and Non-Executive Directors only.
The Finance retirement as CEO and will be leaving announcements, Andrew Carr-Locke Director and the Property Director have a Grainger in January 2016.
Following a formally joined the Board as an standing invitation to attend all meetings thorough and robust external search independent Non-Executive Director in of that Committee.
overseen by the Committee, and March 2015. following unanimous recommendation Search consultants The Committee reviewed the to the Board, it was announced that The Committee engaged the Zygos composition of the Board including Helen Gordon was selected as Graingers Partnership Zygos, an independent the range of skills, knowledge, level next CEO.
Helen joined Grainger as CEO executive search consultancy, for the of experience and balance between designate on 3 November 2015 and will recruitment of Helen Gordon, Rob Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
take up the role of CEO in January 2016.
The Board Following this review, it was agreed that Mark Greenwood gave notice to confirms that Zygos is not connected with a search for an additional independent the Company in August 2015 of his the Company in any other way.
Non-Executive Director with fund retirement as Finance Director to the management and real estate sector Diversity Board.
It was agreed with Mark that he experience be carried out.
Following a The Directors are committed to having a would continue to work at Grainger and robust external search, the Committee balanced Board which includes diversity serve on the Board until the end of 2015. unanimously recommended to the of perspectives, skills, knowledge and Consequent to this, the Committee led Board that Rob Wilkinson join as a Nonbackground.
In respect of gender diversity a thorough external search to identify Executive Director subject to the usual specifically, the Board supports Lord an appropriate successor to Mark, and FCA confirmations.
Following receipt of Davies aspiration to promote greater following unanimous recommendation such confirmations, Rob was appointed female representation on listed company by the Committee to the Board, Vanessa inOctober 2015. boards, and notes the significant positive Simms was selected as the Companys progress that has been made in this area Finance Director.
Vanessa will take up her Senior Independent Director in respect of FTSE 350 companies since role in Spring 2016.
Following Margaret Ford being appointed the original Davies report was published.
The Board has received notice from as Chairman on a permanent basis, All appointments to the Grainger Board Simon Davies that he would like to Belinda Richards was appointed Senior are made on merit, and within this context retire from the Board on or about Independent Director, thus ensuring the Directors will continue to have regard 30 November 2015, by which time that these roles are separated and to the recommendations of the Davies he will have completed three years implementing best governance practice.
report and the issue of diversity as it and service.
Consequently, Simon will also Committee changes best practice develops further.
As at the be relinquishing his membership of the In accordance with the Code, and date of this report, female representation at Remuneration and Risk and Compliance following Margaret Fords appointment Board level was 30%.
Both the Chairman Committees at that time.
as Chairman, Belinda Richards and Senior Independent Director are As previously announced, Ian Coull was was appointed as Chairman of the female.
This figure will increase to 50% due to take up the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee in Margarets when Helen Gordon and Vanessa Simms Board in February 2015 following the place.
In addition, and having regard to take up their positions in 2016.
Page 24 AGM and Robin Broadhursts retirement.
best practice, Margaret relinquished her contains details of the gender split of all Due to ill health, Ian was unable to take membership of the Audit Committee.
up that position and was granted a leave Following a review of the membership of absence from the Board.
In response of the Committees having regard to to this, it was agreed that Baroness the balance of skills, knowledge and Margaret Ford would be appointed
