OUR GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS DASH CAM SALES UP INTRODUCTION 740% Looking to the financial year beginning in I am pleased to present the report IN Q4 April 2015, the business recognises the new of the Audit Committee for the requirements being introduced by the new UK financial year ended 3 April 2015.
FOLDING Corporate Governance Code issued September 00% Throughout the year, the Audit Committee has 2014.
The Audit Committee has already BIKES KEY FACT continued its work of reviewing the effectiveness discussed these new requirements and has a of Halfords corporate governance framework clear plan to address them.
UP 26% with particular emphasis on the quality of financial David Adams reporting, internal control, and risk management YEAR-ON-YEAR Chairman of the Audit Committee systems.
This report explains in detail how the 4 June 2015 Committee undertook its duties.
We are now entering the third full year of our in-house internal audit programme.
The internal audit function and its audit universe-driven review programme have matured well and our risk management processes are embedded within the operations of the business.
Getting Into Gear 52 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION MEMBERSHIP AND REMIT OF THE REMIT approving a formal whistleblowing policy AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committees responsibilities include: whereby staff may, in confidence, disclose MEMBERSHIP issues of concern about possible malpractice making recommendations to the Board on the All of the members of the Audit Committee are or wrongdoings by any of the Groups appointment of the external Auditor, including independent Non-Executive Directors.
Having businesses or any of its employees without on effectiveness, independence, non-audit been the Deputy Chief Executive and Finance fear of reprisal, and includes arrangements to work undertaken against a formal policy and Director of House of Fraser Plc, David Adams investigate and respond to any issues raised.
remuneration: is considered by the Board to have recent and The Audit Committee has reviewed its Terms of reviewing the accounting principles, policies relevant financial experience and so the requisite Reference and its composition during the year and practices adopted throughout the period: experience to chair the Committee.
Each of the and believes that both are approriate.
Copies other independent Non-Executive Directors has, reviewing and approving external financial of the full Terms of Reference are available on through their other business activities, significant reporting for adoption by the Board: the Companys website or on request from the experience in financial matters.
assisting the Board in achieving its obligations Company Secretary.
under the Code in areas of risk management The Chairman, Executive Directors and key and internal control, focusing particularly advisors are invited to attend meetings as on compliance with legal requirements, appropriate in order to ensure that the Committee accounting standards and the Listing Rules: maintains a current and well-informed view of events within the business, and to reinforce ensuring that an effective system of internal a strong risk management culture.
The Audit financial and non-financial controls is Committee meets according to the requirements maintained: and of the Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the Audit Committee also provide the opportunity for the independent Non-Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present and to raise any issues of concern with the Auditor.
There have been three such meetings in the period ended 3 April 2015 and nothing of note was reported.
com 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 OUR GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued The Audit Committee has received detailed reports from Halfords finance team and external Auditor addressing this issue.
Consideration has been given to ensuring that cash flow models, PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR discount rates, sensitivity analysis and centre profitability are all reasonable.
The Committee The Audit Committee met four times during Board for Approval concluded that it is satisfied with the accounting the year with the following timetable: treatment of impairment of goodwill.
Review of External Auditors Half-Year Report MAY 2014 Review of Internal Audit Progress Report VALUATION OF INVENTORY WITHIN THE Review of Year End Chief Financial Officers RETAIL DIVISION Approval of External Auditor Non-Audit Report With the business holding a wide range of Fee Policy stock, it is likely that changing consumer Recommend the Preliminary Statement to Review of Committee Terms of Reference demands will mean that some lines cannot be the Board for Approval FEBRUARY 2015 sold, or will be sold at below the carrying value.
Recommend the Annual Report to the Review of External Auditors Annual Provisions are made to reflect this.
Given the Board for Approval Strategy and Fees difficulties in forecasting market trends, there Review of External Auditors Report Approval of Amendments to Internal Audit is a risk that inventory provisions made will Review Statement of External Auditors and Risk Management Frameworks in may be inappropriate or incomplete see note Independence Response to Sep 14 Revision of Corporate 13 of the financial statements.
Management Governance Code has an established methodology for assessing Review of Internal Audit Full Year Report inventory provisions.
Range reviews are regularly Review of Impact of FRS101 Review of Group Register of Risks and undertaken to ensure that all discontinued Controls MARCH 2015 inventory is identified.
Review of Internal Audit Progress Report Approval of Internal Audit Charter and Annual Strategy The Audit Committee has received detailed OCTOBER 2014 reports from Halfords finance team and external Review of Group Register of Risks and Review of Half Year Chief Financial Officers Auditor addressing this issue.
After consideration Controls Report of the accuracy of the provisioning model, the Review of Group Whistleblowing Policy Recommend the Interim Statement to the completeness and accuracy of range reviews, and the reflection of these reviews within the provisions, the Committee concluded that it is satisfied with the accounting treatment of the valuation of inventory.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS EFFECTIVENESS OF EXTERNAL AUDIT LOOKING AHEAD The effectiveness of the external audit is For the financial year beginning in April 2015, the Committee plans to further augment its risk considered throughout the year through, amongst management oversight through regular management briefings explaining in detail how selected other factors, assessment of the degree of key areas of business risk are managed.
These presentations will be prioritised to reflect the audit firms challenge of key estimates and emerging external issues, but are likely to feature topics such as cyber security and supply judgements made by the business, feedback from chain safeguarding.
any external or internal quality reviews on the audit and the wider quality of communication with the Committee.
In addition at its meeting in February 2015, the SIGNIFICANT ISSUES IN RELATION TO IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL ASSOCIATED Committee performed a specific evaluation of the THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WITH AUTOCENTRES performance of the external Auditor considering In order to discharge its responsibility to Following the acquisition of Nationwide the areas set out above and feedback from consider accounting integrity, the Committee Autocentres in 2010, the Group holds significant management.
Following this, the Committee carefully considers key judgements applied in goodwill in the Halfords Autocentres business.
concluded that: the preparation of the consolidated financial There are a number of factors that could impact statements that are set out on pages 76 to 112. on the future profitability of the business e. g. loss the overall audit approach, materiality, The Committees review included consideration of of key customer, change in market behaviour and threshold, and areas of audit focus were the following key accounting judgements: there is therefore a risk that the business may not appropriate to the business: and meet the growth projections necessary to support the audit team possessed the necessary the carrying value of the intangible asset see note quality, expertise and experience to provide an 10 of the financial statements.
Getting Into Gear 54 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION APPROACH TO APPOINTMENT OR In addition, the external Auditor follows its own WHISTLEBLOWING REAPPOINTMENT ethical guidelines and continually reviews its A Whistleblowing Policy and procedure enables KPMG LLP formerly KPMG Audit plc were audit team to ensure that its independence is not colleagues to report concerns on matters affecting appointed as external Auditor to the Group in compromised.
the Group or their employment, without fear of 2009 following a formal tender process.
Posters publicising whistleblowing An analysis of the fees earned by the external time, KPMG LLP has complied with the partner channels are distributed to all stores, autocentres, Auditor is disclosed in note 2 to the financial rotation requirement set out in Ethical Standards distribution centres and support centres.
A partner rotation was due during the The Whistleblowing Policy and procedure was year, and accordingly KPMGs Peter Meehan has ROLE AND EFFECTIVENESS OF reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee INTERNAL AUDIT taken up the responsibilities of Senior Statutory and was subject to an internal audit review during Auditor.
The Company has a dedicated in-house internal the year.
The Company Secretary provides the audit team, assisted by external specialists if The Audit Committee considers that the Audit Committee with a regular summary of necessary.
The team principally reviews the relationship with the Auditor is working well and whistleblowing contacts and resolutions.
effectiveness of the controls operating within the is satisfied with their independence, objectivity business by undertaking an agreed schedule ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION and effectiveness and has not considered it of independent audits each year.
The Audit POLICY necessary to require KPMG LLP to re-tender for Committee determines the nature and scope of The Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy external audit work.
The Audit Committee has the annual audit programme at the beginning statement reinforces that the Halfords Board is recommended to the Board, for approval by of each year and revises it from time to time committed to conducting its business affairs so shareholders at the AGM on 30 July 2015, the according to changing business circumstances as to ensure that it does not engage in or facilitate reappointment of KPMG LLP as external Auditor.
The Audit Committee also any form of corruption.
It is Halfords policy to confirms that internal audit has appropriate APPROACH TO SAFEGUARDING prohibit all forms of corruption amongst our resources available to it.
The annual audit OBJECTIVITY AND INDEPENDENCE IF NONemployees, suppliers and any associated parties programme is derived from an audit universe AUDIT SERVICES ARE PROVIDED acting on our behalf.
The Group has a detailed including financial and commercial processes, The Audit Committee has established a policy to Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and maintains governance issues, and key corporate risks.
ensure that any non-audit services delivered by Gifts and Hospitality Registers.
Anti-bribery the external Auditor will not jeopardise objectivity expectations are set out in standard purchasing Internal Audit reports on a day-to-day basis and independence.
The policy is consistent with terms and conditions.
Face-to-face and online to Andrew Findlay, the Chief Financial Officer, Ethical Standards for Auditors.
training has been provided to colleagues to raise but is independent in action and reporting of the awareness of anti-bribery and corruption issues, with direct line of communication to The policy specifies: legislation.
The findings The external Auditor can be used to provide of the independent audits are reported initially The Audit Committee has requested that antinon-audit services subject to any non-audit to executive management and any necessary bribery and corruption safeguards are periodically engagement proposal provided by the external corrective actions are agreed.
Summaries of these reviewed by internal audit.
Auditor is formally approved by the Audit reports are presented to, and discussed with, the INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK Committee before contractual arrangements are Audit Committee along with details of progress MANAGEMENT entered into, except for: against action plans as appropriate.
Details of the Groups internal control and risk i.
Half year review: and management framework are set out on page 49. ii.
Internal support services supplied by the Auditor in order to execute managements Internal Audit plan.
Other than for the above, for each separate service proposed to be provided by the Auditor, the Chief Financial Officer will prepare a note either to be tabled and minuted at an Audit Committee meeting or to be circulated via email to the Audit Committee members and the CEO giving a description of the work to be undertaken, the reasons why the Auditor is involved in the proposal and how objectivity and independence has, and is seen to be, safeguarded.
Consent is required from the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of the Audit Committee before the Auditor can be engaged for non-audit services.
