OUR GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Good corporate CHAIRMANS governance is a key element of our INTRODUCTION business success.
The Board very much looks forward to working My primary role is to lead the with her and the Executive Team, providing Board and ensure that it works appropriate guidance and independent thought effectively and collaboratively and challenge for the sustainable delivery of the to create sustainable, long-term Groups long term strategy.
The following Corporate Governance Report Good corporate governance is a key element contains a summary of the Companys of our business success.
The Board is therefore governance arrangements and the regulatory 9,000 committed to ensuring that high standards assurances required under the UK Corporate CUB SCOUTS of governance, values and behaviours are Governance Code 2012.
TAUGHT BIKE consistently applied throughout the Group.
These MAINTENANCE I would encourage you to attend this years AGM elements are critical to business integrity and and meet me and the Board.
maintaining investors trust in Halfords.
The Board has recently welcomed the new Chief Dennis Millard Executive Officer, Jill McDonald, following the Chairman 100,000 00% resignation of Matt Davies.
Jill joined the Company 4 June 2015 KEY FACT from the McDonalds Corporation, where she CYCLISTS was CEO, UK & President, North West Division, SUPPORTED BY Europe.
She brings to the Board a wealth of HALFORDS experience from successfully heading a large MECHANICS complex service-led consumer facing business.
Getting Into Gear 42 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE THE BOARD Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The Board is accountable to shareholders KEY MATTERS RESERVED FOR and is committed to the highest standards of BOARD APPROVAL BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND corporate governance as set out in the UK COMMITTEES Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code.
GROUP STRATEGY AND RISK Appointment of Directors The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting MANAGEMENT Approval of the fees of the Councils website at www.
The Board Approval of the Groups Strategy and Non-Executive Directors considers that throughout the period ended Business Plan Setting of Board Committees Terms of 3 April 2015, the Company has complied, without Approval of changes to capital structure Reference exception, with the provisions of the Code.
Approval of any decisions to cease to This report outlines how the Board has applied operate all or any material part of the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the main principles of good governance set out in Groups business.
Undertaking formal performance reviews the Code during the period under review.
Approval of extension of activities into of the Board, Committees and individual new businesses or geographical areas Directors LEADERSHIP Determining the independence of Directors BOARD COMPOSITION Receiving reports on Group policies, such FINANCIAL AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board is committed to ensuring that it provides as health and safety, risk management Oversight of risk management and leadership to the business as a whole, having strategy, the environment and charitable internal control framework regard to the interests and views of its shareholders and political donations Approval of financial statements and and other stakeholders.
It is also responsible for results announcements setting the Groups strategy, values and standards.
Approval of shareholder communications, Details of the Groups business model and strategy Read more about the remit of each circulars and Notices of Meetings can be found on pages 6 to 18.
Approval of the Auditors remuneration See Committee Terms of Reference at The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and terms of engagement www.
com investors are separate and clearly defined, with the division governance our-committees Recommendation and declaration of of responsibilities set out in writing and agreed by dividends the Board.
The definitions of the roles are available Approval of major capital expenditure at: www.
com investors projects governance  of material contracts .
As at the date of this report, the Board of Directors was made up of six members, comprising the NonExecutive Chairman, two Executive Directors and How We Do Business is the internal name of the three Non-Executive Directors.
The composition EXECUTIVE formal delegated authorities document approved of the Board is as set out on page 46 and the DIRECTORS by the Board.
It describes how day-to-day biographies of individual Directors, including any decisions are delegated to the Executive Directors, other business commitments, are available on AND SENIOR the Senior Management Team and others within page 38 and also at www.
Each potential activity is set out investors governance the-board.
by reference from whom approval must be The Directors together act in the best interests of sought and the paperwork required to evidence the Company via the Board and its Committees, that approval.
Where an activity is not expressly devoting sufficient time and consideration as described within How We Do Business, approval necessary to fulfil their duties.
Each Director must be sought from the Senior Management brings different skills, experience and knowledge Team, who will apply the principles of How We THE to the Company, with the Non-Executive Directors Do Business to the decision.
The implementation additionally bringing independent thought and of the document is constantly monitored, with BUSINESS judgement.
This combination seeks to ensure that updates proposed to the Board to reflect changing no individual or group unduly restricts or controls practices or structures.
Briefing sessions were held decision-making.
for all relevant Support Centre colleagues upon launch and are refreshed whenever the document Each of the Non-Executive Directors excluding is updated.
the Chairman is considered independent of management and free of any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Chairman was considered independent upon his appointment.
The Board considers that each Non-Executive Director brings their own senior level of experience, gained within their field.
com 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 Delegated Authorities OUR GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES The key responsibilities of Board members are set out below: Role Main Responsibilities Chairman of the Board Leadership of the Board including its operation and governance Builds an effective and complementary Board Sets the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions Facilitates and encourages active engagement in meetings, promoting effective relationships and open communication Ensures effective communications with shareholders and other stakeholders Group Chief Executive Develops the Group objectives and strategy for Board approval Creates and recommends to the Board an annual budget and five year financial plan Successfully delivers against the financial plan and other objectives and executes the agreed Group strategy Identifies and executes new business opportunities and potential acquisitions or disposals Manages the Groups risk in line with the Board approved risk profile Senior Independent Supports the Chairman in his role Director Holds meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman at least once a year to appraise the Chairmans performance Acts as an intermediary for the other Directors or as a sounding board for the Chairman if required Available to other Directors and shareholders with concerns that cannot be addressed through the normal channels Non-Executive Directors, Evaluate and appraise the performance of Executive Directors and Senior Management against agreed targets including the Chairman Participate in the development of the strategy of the Group Monitor the financial information, risk management and controls processes of the Group to make sure that they are sufficiently robust Meet regularly with senior management Periodically visit retail stores, Autocentres and distribution centres Meet together regularly without the Executive Directors present Formulate Executive Director remuneration and succession planning Company Secretary Works closely with the Chairman, Group CEO and Board Committee Chairmen in setting the rolling calendar of agenda items for the meetings of the Board and its committees Ensures accurate, timely and appropriate information flows within the Board, the Committees and between the Directors and senior management Provides advice on Board matters, legal and regulatory issues, corporate governance, Listing Rules compliance and best practice A formal schedule of matters reserved for the is through this system that the Board is able to BOARD MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE Board is in place and regularly reviewed.
This provide oversight and direction to the Executive The table opposite shows the attendance of is available at: www.
com Directors, the Senior Management Team and the Directors at the meetings of the Board and investors governance  business.
of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration board.
Committees during the year ended 3 April 2015.
Matters Reserved for the Board include: Where a Director did not attend meetings owing To effectively discharge these responsibilities, the Authority: Strategy and Management: Structure to prior commitments or other unavoidable Board has additionally implemented a system and Capital: Investor Relations: Audit, Financial circumstances, he or she provided input to the of delegated authorities, which is described on Reporting and Controls: Nominations to the Chairman so that his or her views were known.
This enables the effective day-to-day Board: Executive Remuneration and Significant operation of the business and ensures that Contracts.
significant matters are brought to the attention of management and the Board as appropriate.
It Getting Into Gear 44 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION BOARD ATTENDANCE AT SCHEDULED MEETINGS Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Board Member Scheduled: 12 Scheduled: 4 Scheduled: 8 Scheduled: 2 Executive Directors 10 12 3 4 1 2 Matt Davies 12 12 4 Andrew Findlay n a n a Non-Executive Directors 12 12 4 8 8 2 2 Dennis Millard 12 12 4 4 8 8 2 2 David Adams 12 12 4 4 8 8 2 2 Claudia Arney 12 12 4 4 8 8 2 2 Helen Jones 1 2 1 1 1 2 Bill Ronald n a 1 2 1 1 1 2 Keith Harris n a Number of meetings available to the individual Number of meetings attended by the individual Number of meetings invited to attend for whole or part of the meeting Other members of the Senior Management Team delegated to each.
Each Committee has its pertinent to them.
The Company Secretary acts and advisors attended Board meetings by invitation terms of reference approved and regularly as the secretary to each Committee.
as appropriate throughout the year.
The Board also reviewed by the Board.
The terms of reference A Disclosure Committee, made up of a minimum held a two-day Strategy meeting during the period.
for the Committees are available on www.
of two Directors, approves the final wording of halfordscompany.
On At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive market announcements prior to release.
There the following pages each Committee Chairman Officer delivers a high level update on business, were five Disclosure Committees during the reports how the Committee he she chairs before the Board moves to considering specific period.
discharged its responsibilities in FY15 and the reports, reviewing business and financial material matters that were considered.
The day-to-day treasury needs of the Group are performance, key initiatives, risks and governance.
managed by the Treasury Committee, chaired by In addition, throughout the year the Senior Following each meeting of a Committee, the the CFO and whose other members are senior Management Team and other colleagues deliver Committee Chairman reports to the Board.
Whilst members of the finance and treasury teams.
presentations to the Board on proposed initiatives not entitled to attend, other Directors, professional and progress on projects.
advisers and members of senior management The Board may establish other ad hoc attend when invited to do so.
The Auditor attends committees of the Board to consider specific BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
No issues from time to time.
No such committees The Board Committees are the Audit Committee, person is present at Nomination Committee or were formed during the year.
the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Remuneration Committee during discussions Committee.
Specific responsibilities have been STOCK CODE: HFD 45 halfords.
com 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 OUR GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued HALFORDS BOARD The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group, setting the strategic direction and ensuring that the Group manages risk effectively.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
See page 44 for examples of Matters Reserved for the Board.
A complete list is available on the companys website www.
com NOMINATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Key Objectives: Key Objectives: Key Objectives: To ensure that the Board has the To provide effective governance To ensure that a Board policy exists skills, knowledge and experience over the Groups financial reporting for the remuneration of the CEO, to be effective in discharging processes including the internal the Chairman, other Executive its responsibilities and to have audit function and external Auditor Directors and members of the oversight of all governance matters and to maintain oversight of the executive management.
Groups systems of internal control and risk management activities Main Responsibilities Main Responsibilities Main Responsibilities Making appropriate recommendations The Remunerations Committees The Audit Committees responsibilities responsibilities include: to maintain the balance of skills include: and experience of the Board by recommending to the Board making recommendations to the considering: the total individual remuneration Board on the appointment removal the size, structure and composition package of Executive Directors of the external Auditor, the terms of and members of the executive of the Board: and engagement and fees: management: Senior management succession reviewing and monitoring the plans, retirements and recommending the design of the integrity of the Companys financial company share incentive plans appointments of additional and statements, including its annual replacement Directors.
to the Board, approving any and interim reports and preliminary awards to Executive Directors and results announcements and any More information on diversity in the other executive managers under other formal announcement relating Group can be found on pages 41 and 51 those plans and defining any to its financial performance, and performance conditions attached then recommending the same to Read more within the Nomination to those awards: the Board: Committee Report on page 50 determining the Chairmans fee, assisting the Board in achieving following a recommendation from its obligations under the Code in the CEO: and areas of risk management and internal control: and maintaining an active dialogue with institutional investors and focusing particularly on compliance shareholder representatives with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules.
Read more within the Remuneration Read more within the Audit Committee Report on page 52 Committee Report on page 56 Members: Chair: Chair: Members: Chair: Members: Dennis Millard David Adams David Adams Claudia Arney Claudia Arney David Adams Claudia Arney Helen Jones Dennis Millard Helen Jones Helen Jones 1 Matt Davies 1.
Represents the Committee at the close of period.
Since the close of the period, Matt Davies has The Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees full Terms of Reference are resigned and Jill McDonald, successor CEO, has available on the Companys website or on request from the Company Secretary replaced him on the Committee.
Getting Into Gear 46 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION CONCERNS The Board considers David Adams, Claudia The Chairman seeks to resolve any concerns EFFECTIVENESS Arney and Helen Jones to be independent in raised by the Board, whether raised in a Board INDEPENDENCE character and judgement in accordance with the meeting or in another forum.
Where raised and The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring requirements of the Code.
The Chairman, Dennis unresolved in a Board meeting, the unresolved a wide range of experience and expertise to the Millard, was considered independent on his business can be recorded on behalf of a Director Groups affairs and carry significant weight in appointment.
in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
The Independent NonNon-Executive Director would also be able to raise Executive Directors are encouraged to challenge any concerns in a written letter to the Chairman, management and help develop proposals on who would bring such concerns to the attention strategy.
In compliance with the requirements of of the Board.
No such concerns have been raised the Code for at least half of the Board, excluding throughout the period.
the Chairman, to be independent, the Company confirms that 60% of its Board are independent.
SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE OF THE BOARD MOVING US THROUGH THE GEARS The below graphic illustrates the number of Directors on the Board who have the relevant skills and experience listed to the right.
Leadership Strategy Governance 5 6 5 Marketing CrossFunctional 5 5 Banking 6 6 Finance 6 6 Corporate 4 4 3 Retail Digital Customer Services 6 Business Development Brand Building Supply Chain Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories.
Represents the Board at the close of the period.
com 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 OUR GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 1 DIVERSITY in the Nomination Committees report, a Diversity The Board considers that it is the background thorough search was conducted to identify Balance of Non-Executive Directors: and experience brought to the Board by each suitable candidates, both internally and Executive Directors individual that best secures and demonstrates externally to succeed him in this role.
The principle that candidates are recommendation of the Nomination Committee, Chairman 01 considered on merit and against objective Jill McDonald joined the Board on 11 May 2015 02 Executive Directors criteria, and with due regard for the benefits as Chief Executive Officer.
Jill was formerly CEO, 1 Non-Executive Directors 03 of diversity on the Board, including gender is UK & President, North West Division, Europe for established in the Terms of Reference of the McDonalds Corporation.
She brings with her Nomination Committee.
significant corporate, operational and brand management experience.
No fixed quota is applied to decisions regarding recruitment, rather the Nomination Committee Succession planning is not, however, confined considers capability and capacity to commit the to the Board itself and the Board pays a close 2 Male:Female necessary time to the role in its recommendations interest in identifying and cultivating leaders of the 4:2 to the Board.
The intention is the appointment future from within the business.
of the most suitably-qualified candidate to DIRECTORS INDUCTION complement and balance the current skills, All new Directors receive an induction tailored knowledge and experience on the Board, seeking Length of tenure to their individual requirements, to include to appoint those who will be best able to help lead 0-3 years: 2 briefings on the activities of the Group and visits the Company in its long-term strategy.
They also meet all of the Jill McDonalds appointment, 50% of the Board is Companys other Directors and Senior Executives.
female, already exceeding the EUs 2020 guideline This facilitates their understanding of the Group 3-6 years: 4 of 40%.
and the key drivers of the business performance.
The Board is well-placed by the mixture of skills, Jill McDonald is currently undertaking a full experience and knowledge of its Directors to induction programme as prepared by the act in the best interests of the Company and its Chairman, with the assistance of the Company shareholders.
Upon joining she was provided with 1.
Bill background materials covering the operational Ronald and Keith Harris retired during the period on APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD 31 May 2014. and organisational structure of the business, as 2.
Since the close of the period and the date of this report, At the end of April, Matt Davies resigned as well as the strategic aims and key initiatives of the Matt Davies has resigned as CEO and been superseded the Group Chief Executive Officer after two by Jill McDonald, making the gender ratio 3:3.
Over the coming two months she will and a half years on the Board.
As reported hold one-to-one meetings with all members of the DIRECTORS INDUCTION TRAINING Senior Management Team, as well as undertaking extensive Retail store, Autocentre and distribution centre visits, meeting colleagues from across the Group.
Operation and Briengs Organisation TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT site visits All current Directors have various opportunities for on-going development and support via: A programme of Support Centre, distribution centre, Retail store and Autocentre visits: Reviews with the Chairman to identify any Meetings with Company training and development needs: Key Directors Directors Initatives Advice on governance, relevant legislative and Senior Executives changes affecting the business or their duties Induction as Directors from the Company Secretary: Access to independent professional advice at Training the Companys expense: and Membership of the Deloitte Academy, a training and guidance resource for boards and Operational directors.
Strategic and Aims Organisational Structure Assistance Getting Into Gear 48 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION EVALUATION All Directors are aware of the need to consult risks and mitigating actions were appropriate It is important to regularly review the effectiveness with the Company Secretary should any to the level of risk that was both acceptable to, of the Board and its Committees.
Despite possible situational conflict arise, so that prior and incumbent within, a listed business.
More undertaking an external review in the last period, consideration can be given by the Board as to information on the Companys key risks and the Company decided to repeat the exercise, whether or not such conflict will be approved.
uncertainties is shown on pages 32 to 35. engaging the services of an external facilitator, Details of the Directors service contracts, RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Lintstock Limited.
Owing to changes within the The Board is committed to effective emoluments, the interests of the Directors and make-up of the Board, the decision was taken to their immediate families in the share capital of the communications between the Company and delay slightly, performing the assessment in April its shareholders and, accordingly, has a strong Company and options to subscribe for shares 2015. in the Company are shown in the Directors Investor Relations programme that seeks to actively engage with shareholders.
The assessment considered topics under the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 70. headings: This programme includes formal presentations of INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK Board Composition, Expertise & Dynamics: MANAGEMENT full year and interim results.
These presentations, along with the Annual Report and Accounts, Overall responsibility for the system of internal Time Management: control and reviewing its effectiveness rests with are the primary means of communication during Board Support: the year with all of the Companys shareholders.
This involves ensuring that there is Board Committees: a process to identify, evaluate and manage any Additionally, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have met significant risks that may affect the achievement of Strategic Oversight: the Groups strategic objectives.
with analysts and institutional shareholders during Risk Management and Internal Control: the period to keep them informed of significant Succession Planning: and The Board has conducted an annual review of the developments and help maintain a balanced effectiveness of the systems of internal control Priorities for Change.
understanding of their issues and concerns.
during the year, under the auspices of the Audit Their views and feedback, as well as market Following this review, the Chairman is satisfied Committee.
The Audit Committee provides the perceptions gathered, are regularly communicated that the Board and its Committees are performing Board with an independent assessment of the to the Board via a monthly report by the Investor effectively and that there is the appropriate Groups financial position, accounting affairs Relations Officer.
The Company Secretary also balance of skills, experience, independence and control systems.
In addition, the Board brings to the attention of the Board any material and knowledge of the Group to enable the receives regular reports on how specific risks matters of concern raised by the Companys Directors to discharge their respective duties and that are assessed as material to the Group are shareholders, including private investors.
The Board will continue being managed.
For further information on the to take proactive steps to address recommended The primary method of communication with Companys compliance with the Code provisions improvements.
relating to the Audit Committee and Auditor shareholders is by electronic means, helping to make the Company more environmentally friendly.
The three most significant actions to be taken as a Information available on the Companys website result of the assessment are set out below: The risk management and internal control system includes current and historic copies of the Annual is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Following the change of the CEO and Report and Accounts, full and half-year financial risk of failing to achieve business objectives and forthcoming change of the CFO, the statements, market announcements, corporate can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, composition of the Board and its Committees governance information, the Terms of Reference assurance against material misstatement or and the background and expertise of their for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration loss.
The Boards policy on internal control members will be reviewed, to ensure that they Committees and the Matters Reserved for the is implemented by management through a have the appropriate expertise to deliver the Board.
clearly defined operating structure with lines of Groups strategy: The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders responsibility and delegated authority.
The Board will develop new innovative ways the opportunity to communicate directly with the An on going process for identifying, evaluating and of considering and setting future strategy and Board and their participation is welcomed.
The managing the significant risks faced by the Group direction: and Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and and assessing the effectiveness of related controls The NEDs will meet more frequently, without Audit Committees will be present at the AGM has been established by the Board to ensure an the Executives, through a series of scheduled and will be in a position to answer questions acceptable risk reward profile across the Group.
relevant to the work of those Committees.
It is The process has been in place throughout the the Companys practice to propose separate RE-ELECTION period ended 3 April 2015, and up to the date resolutions on each substantial issue at the AGM.
In compliance with the Code and the Companys of approving the Annual Report and Financial The Chairman will advise shareholders on the Articles of Association, all Directors on the Board Statements.
proxy voting details at the meeting.
as at 4 June 2015, will seek re-election at the Our process for identifying, evaluating and Companys AGM.
Jill McDonald will seek election By order of the Board managing the significant risks faced by the Group for the first time.
and assessing the effectiveness of related controls Justin Richards DIRECTORS AND THEIR OTHER INTERESTS routinely identifies areas for improvement, but the Group Company Secretary Each Director is required to notify the Company Board has neither identified nor been advised of 4 June 2015 of any situation in which he or she has, or could any failings or weaknesses that it has determined have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, to be material or significant.
or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the The Board considered its appetite for risk in Company a situational conflict.
None was notified relation to the top 30 risks, determining that the during the period.
