Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee continued to challenge and engage with management, internal audit and the externalAuditor to fulfil itsexpanded role.
Jane Aikman, Chairman, Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman overview Allocation of time % During the previous year, the Audit Committee focused on the integrity of the Groups financial reporting including the processes tomake our Annual Report and Accounts fair, balanced and understandable, the effectiveness and appropriateness of our system Financial statements and reports 36% of risk management and internal controls as well as our internal and Risk management 11% external audit processes, in accordance with the revised Corporate Internal audit 9% Governance Code.
training 35% In 2014 15, the Audit Committee continued to challenge and Governance 9% engagewith management, internal audit and the external Auditortofulfil its expanded role: timely circulation of reports and information also enabled the Committee to continue to discharge its duties andresponsibilities effectively.
During the course of the year, the Committee considered the approach to the groups upcoming viability statement, the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls Responsibilities and riskmanagement systems and whether there is any scope for The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonimprovements in our already integrated and robust approach.
As a executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms result of the additional scrutiny there is an increase in the awareness ofreference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and and monitoring of principal risks at all levels in the subsidiary Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of reference are companies, our sectors and at the Halma Board.
considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred tothe Board for approval.
The full terms of reference were updated Recent changes in legislation led the Committee to reassess the inJune 2014 including the recommendations of the Institute of timing of the external auditor tender and the effectiveness of the Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA June 2013 audit process and their conclusions are explained further on in this Report.
committee terms of reference guidance and refreshed again in April I hope you find this Report helpful in understanding the work of the 2015.
Further emphasis is now placed on the increased work scope Audit Committee.
of the Committee as envisaged by the revised September 2014 FRC Corporate Governance Code and Risk Management and Internal Control Guidance as well as the Competition & Markets Authority Audit Committee members Order and other relevant EU guidance relating to auditor tender and Jane Aikman Chairman tenure.
The terms of reference can be found on the Companys Stephen Pettit website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Daniela Barone Soares The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: Roy Twite Appointed 24 July 2014 Tony Rice Appointed 8 August 2014 monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group andany formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and review significant financial reporting judgments contained therein: have oversight of risk management, including the review of the Groups financial, operational and compliance internal controls, aswell as whistleblowing and fraud prevention procedures: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Auditfunction: review the tenure of the external auditor in the context of retendering requirements and make recommendations to the Board on the timing of any process: 66 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements make recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to Governance the shareholders for their approval at the general meeting, on the The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial year appointment of the external auditor and the approval of the withJane Aikman as the Chair.
All the current five members are remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: independent non-executive Directors in accordance with provision review and monitor the external auditors independence and C. 3.1 of the Code.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into representatives from the external Auditor attend Committee meetings consideration the periodic rotation of audit personnel and relevant by invitation in order to provide appropriate advice.
The Committee UK professional and regulatory requirements: and meets at least three times per year and routinely meets the Auditor develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external without the involvement of the executive Directors.
The Committee auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant meets with the Internal Auditor on a regular basis throughout the year.
guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the The Finance Director works closely with the Chairman of the Audit external audit firm.
Committee to ensure open communication between them.
The Board has designated Jane Aikman as the member of the Audit Key issues and activities Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
She is The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of the achartered accountant, is a finance director and has listed Company, but spends a significant amount of its time reviewing the companyexperience.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control process.
Combined with the Committees review of the internal and external audit functions, it Training is able to obtain sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities.
Last year the Audit Committee extended its meetings by an hour, whichprovided capacity to facilitate additional in-depth More specifically, during the year the Committee reviewed its own discussions, presentations and training on topics relating to risk effectiveness and looked at its activities as detailed in the table below.
management andinternal control, valuation and accounting for acquisitions and disposals, financial reporting including additional Audit Committee activities coverage of auditprocedures, scope andmethodology, fraud, cyber Financial statements and reports security andgovernance.
reviewed the March 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the September 2014 Half Year Report and the trading updates Engagement of the external auditor issued in July 2014 and February 2015.
As part of these reviews The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the Groups the Committee received a report from the external auditor on and Companys financial statements.
The audit includes the review the audit of the Annual Report and Accounts: and test of the data contained in the financial statements to the extent reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and the financial statements.
financial statements: Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor of the Group since 2003 considered acquisition valuation and accounting methodology: and a review of the independence of Deloitte LLP is undertaken each reviewed pension fund accounts: year.
At the year end, the Auditor formally confirmed its independence reviewed treasury policy: and that objectivity has been maintained.
The Committee concluded reviewed currency exposure and hedging policies: and that the relevant independence continues to be met.
In addition, reviewed taxation provisions.
thepartner responsible for the Group audit is rotated at least every Risk management five years.
considered the output from the Group-wide risk review process Deloitte LLP provides the Committee with relevant reports, to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, the Groups changing risk reviewsand advice throughout the year, as set out in their profile and future risk reports: termsofengagement.
devoted additional time to adequately address risk management and internal control in the Group: and External auditor tendering considered export controls and other compliance-related matters.
In accordance with UK regulations, the Companys Auditor adheres to a rotation policy based on best practice and a new Group lead Internal audit engagement partner is appointed in place of the previous lead evaluated the effectiveness and the scope of work to be engagement partner once he has completed a term of five years in undertaken by the Internal Audit function: that role.
Following a rigorous evaluation of the audit service and a reviewed management responses to audit reports issued change in audit partner in 2010 11, the Audit Committee agreed that duringthe year: a full tender was not required for the 2013 14 audit.
The Committee reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy which allows Internal reconsidered its review during 2014 15 and concluded that a full Audit, via the Company Secretary, to receive, in confidence, tender is not currently required.
In making this assessment the complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing Committee focused on the robustness of the audit, the quality issues and related matters: and ofdelivery of audit services and the effectiveness, objectivity and reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
independence of the Auditor in its reviews.
The Committee is satisfied External auditor and non-audit work that Deloitte continues to provide an effective audit and appropriate considered the timing and process for external auditor tender: independent challenge to the Groups senior management.
reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology The Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate of the audit and non-audit work to be undertaken by the Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting external auditor: Council FRC and is supportive of the recommendation to put evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external theexternal audit out to tender at least once every 10 years.
The auditor: and recent Competition & Markets Authoritys CMA Final Order which agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to isnowdesigned to align with the new EU Regulation 547 2014 allows theexternal auditor for the audit of the 28 March 2015 companies greater flexibility over the timing of both their external audit financialstatements.
tender and the required five-yearly cycle of partner rotation.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Audit Committee Report continued Halma is now required to conduct a competitive audit tender by In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland June2023.
Due to these changes in transitional arrangements, 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting Practices thetiming of our audit partner rotation next year and the current Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external Auditor has AuditCommittee Chairman planning to step down in 2016 17, the confirmed its independence as Auditor of the Company, in a letter Committee nowintends for the incoming Audit Committee Chairman addressed to the Directors.
to lead the external tender and the process will be completed before Accordingly, the Committee unanimously recommended to the the end ofDecember 2018.
Boardthat a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys independent Auditor be proposed to shareholders at Policy of auditor independence and services theAGM in July 2015 and the Board has accepted and endorsed Prohibited non-audit services thisrecommendation.
appraisal or valuation services: financial information systems design and implementation: External audit effectiveness bookkeeping services: The effectiveness of the external audit process is assessed by the management functions: Committee, which meets regularly throughout the year with the audit executive recruiting and resource services: partner and senior audit managers.
Key to the overall effectiveness of broker-dealer services: and the process is a no surprises approach adopted by both the Group legal services.
and the Auditor under which each party makes the other aware of accounting and financial reporting issues as and when they arise, Audit-related services not subject to separate tender iffees rather than limiting this exchange to the period in which formal audit 100,000 and review engagements take place.
audits of businesses acquired or to be sold and due diligenceservices: This general approach is supported by a formal annual survey opinions audit reports on information provided by the Company process involving subsidiary and Group management as well as upon request from a third party: AuditCommittee members and attendees.
advice on accounting policies: electronic data processing audits: and Surveys are tailored and issued to three distinct groups tax services including local tax compliance.
ofrespondents: Permitted non-audit services, subject to approval with Subsidiary Finance Directors: requirement to tender if fees 100,000 Sector Chief Executives, Sector Vice Presidents and due diligence services relating to acquisitions with fees in excess SectorFinance Directors: and of 100,000: Audit Committee members and attendees.
public reporting on investment circulars: The survey completed by the first group is divided between liquidation services in respect of redundant subsidiaries or questionsfocusing on audit quality and client service.
As this group associate companies: and isinvolved primarily in the execution phase of the audit, the responses tax-advisory fees in excess of 100,000 where the firms existing cover practical audit management issues as well as observations knowledge of the Group structure is preferred.
made of the integrity and quality of audit field teams.
The second andparticularly the third group interact mainly with senior audit management and the audit partner and so the survey covers more Auditor independence general audit planning and wider issues around the audit relationship.
The Groups Policy on Auditor Independence and Services provided by the External Auditor sets out restrictions on the categories of In addition to assessing the effectiveness of the external Auditor the non-audit services which the external auditor is allowed to provide Committee recognises that Group management has an important tothe Group, a summary of which is provided in the table above.
role to play in the overall effectiveness of the external audit process Thispolicy is regularly reviewed and states that the Group will only and the Auditor is therefore asked to conduct its own survey of both use the appointed external auditor for non-audit services in cases subsidiary and head office companies with which Deloitte interacts.
where these services do not conflict with the auditors independence.
This survey addresses items such as the timeliness, quality and reliability of data provided to the Auditor.
The Committee confirms that Deloitte LLP remains best placed to advise the Group on matters related to tax compliance and the Taken together, the Committee believes that sufficient and structure of the Group.
The Committee accepts that certain work of appropriate information is obtained to form an overall judgment on anon-audit nature is best undertaken by Deloitte, and appointments theeffectiveness of the external audit process.
The external audit are made taking into account factors including expertise and fees.
effectiveness process findings from last years review were also The Committee regularly reviews the amount and nature of the incorporated into our audit processes this year.
The Audit Committee is notified Risk management and internal controls ofall of Deloittes non-audit services with fees between 50,000 Further details of risk management and internal controls are set out and100,000.
The policy also sets a fee level per project of 100,000 on pages 26 to 31.
Through monitoring of the effectiveness of its above which non-audit services are subject to a tendering process.
internal controls and risk management, the Committee is able to The above fee levels for non-audit services are also subject to an maintain a good understanding of business performance, key areas annual cap equal to 70% of the audit fee.
At each meeting, the Audit of judgment and decision-making processes within the Group.
Committee also receives a summary of all fees, audit and nonaudit, payable to the external Auditor.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP during 2014 15 were 803,000 2014: 759,000 and non-audit service fees were 172,000 2014: 65,000.
The principal non-audit service is taxadvisory related.
A summary of fees paid to the external Auditor issetout in note 6 to the Accounts on page 119.
68 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Significant issues in relation to financial reporting As part of the above process the Committee specifically considered the following: matters in 2014 15 During the year the Committee considered significant risks and the treatment and valuation of the contingent consideration payable issues in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures in relation to ASL, Advanced and MST: relating to: review of the fair value of acquired intangible assets for Advanced and RCS: the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible composition of the cash generating units and related calculations: assets due to the significance of the amounts recorded on the the evidence supporting the going concern basis of accounts Consolidated Balance Sheet, the judgments involved in assessing preparation, the new viability statement to be introduced in goodwill and intangible assets for impairment, and the continued 2015 16and therisk management and internal control disclosure challenging economic conditions: requirements: the risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly in line with the relative value of projects in development and completed IFRS 3 Business combinations including the recording of fair value projects comprising the capitalised development costs balance adjustments and the identification of acquired intangibles: and the coverage of these values by expected future cash flows to the valuation of any contingent consideration arising on acquisitions test the assertion of management that no projects were at risk of in current and prior periods: impairment: and the judgments involved in valuing Defined Benefit pension plans accounting assumptions and disclosures of the Defined Benefit including the discount rate, the mortality assumption and the pension plans following the closure of the plans to future inflation level: benefitaccrual.
the risk around capturing the capitalised development costs inrelation to qualifying products as well as the subsequent Fair, balanced and understandable report impairment review based on predicted product launch and andaccounts performance: and One of the key governance requirements is for the report and ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
standard is met requires continuous assessment of the financial These issues were discussed with management at various stages reporting issues affecting the Group on a year-round basis in addition during 2014 15 and during the preparation and finalisation of the to a number of focused exercises that take place during the Annual financial statements.
After reviewing the presentations and reports Report and Accounts production process.
from management the Committee is satisfied that the financial These focused exercises can be summarised as follows: statements appropriately address the critical judgments and keyestimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the a qualitative review of disclosures and a review of internal disclosures made.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant consistency throughout the Annual Report and Accounts.
This assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities review assesses the Annual Report and Accounts against objective have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are sufficiently criteria drawn up for each component of the requirement individual robust.
The Committee has discussed these issues with the Auditor criteria that indicate fairness, balance and understandability during the audit planning process and at the finalisation of the year aswell as criteria that overlap two or more components : end audit and is satisfied that its conclusions are in line with those a risk comparison review, which assesses the consistency of the drawn by the Auditor in relation to these issues.
presentation of risks and significant judgments throughout the main areas of risk disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts: The Committees process for challenging the assumptions of a formal review of all Board and Committee meeting minutes by management and addressing the risks identified includes the theCompany Secretary to ensure that all significant issues are following activities: appropriately reflected and given due prominence in narrative considering the appropriateness of reviews conducted of reporting: and acquisition purchase agreements against the related accounting preparation and issue to the Audit Committee of the key working entries and fair value calculations for the acquired opening papers and results for each of the significant issues and judgments balances.
This involved challenging, where required, assumptions considered by the Audit Committee in the period.
and key judgments underpinning the valuations, and benchmarking The Directors statement on a fair, balanced and understandable acquisitions: Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 59. assessing treatments of contingent consideration payment arrangements against the requirements of IFRS 3: On behalf of the Audit Committee focusing on, monitoring regularly and constructively challenging thereasonableness of the assumptions used in impairment Jane Aikman calculations by management: challenging the appropriateness of Chairman judgments and forecasts used including discount rates, growth 11 June 2015 rates, the level of aggregation of individual cash generating units and methodology applied, and any other associated disclosures in note 11 to the Accounts: assessing capitalisation of development costs in line with the accounting policy and standards: assessing the assumptions in determining the pension obligations, particularly given recent market volatility and determined whether the key assumptions were reasonable.
These assumptions were also benchmarked against other listed companies and variances highlighted for consideration: and considering the appropriateness and reasonableness of stated judgments and conclusions and that reporting was accurate.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
