Nomination Committee Report... the Board succession plan [is] to refresh the Board over a two-year period when both the current Senior Independent Director Remuneration Committee Chairman and Audit Committee Chairman will be stepping down.
Paul Walker, Chairman, Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Chairman overview Nomination Committee members The role of the Nomination Committee is to: Paul Walker Chairman review the balance and composition of the Board and its Andrew Williams Committees, ensuring that they remain appropriate: Stephen Pettit Jane Aikman appointed 10 April 2014 be responsible for overseeing the Boards succession planning Daniela Barone Soares appointed 10 April 2014 requirements including the identification and assessment of Roy Twite appointed 24 July 2014 potential Board candidates and making recommendations to Tony Rice appointed 8 August 2014 theBoard for its approval: and keep under review the leadership needs of, and succession Allocation of time % planning for, the Group in relation to both its executive Directors and other senior executives.
This includes the consideration of recommendations made by the Chief Executive for changes to theexecutive membership of the Board.
Succession planning and recruitment 41% Governance and reporting 17% During 2014 15 the Committee has focused heavily on executive and Board succession with the following key outcomes.
Independence and reelection of Directors 25% The April 2014 appointment of Jennifer Ward as Group Talent Composition of the Board 17% Director, an Executive Board position: The April 2014 decision to appoint each non-executive Director toeach of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees reflecting the Boards emphasis on full transparency: The appointment on 24 July 2014 of Roy Twite and Tony Rice on8August 2014 as non-executive Directors following the resignations of Steve Marshall and Norman Blackwell, each duetoother external commitments: In light of the unanticipated Board resignations, the assessment ofStephen Pettits independence prior to inviting him to remain onthe Board as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until, no later than, the 2015 AGM: Review and implementation of the Board succession plan to refresh the Board over a two-year period when both the current Senior Independent Director Remuneration Committee Chairman and Audit Committee Chairman will be stepping down.
This has been aimed at balancing Board evolution with stability and in keeping with the Boards composition principles including promoting diversity including in terms of gender and experience.
Good progress has been made on this during the year with the appointment of two new non-executive Directors while robust progress to identify Stephen Pettits successor is ongoing.
Board succession and composition will remain a priority for the coming year as the Board continues to execute its succession plan.
70 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Responsibilities Succession planning for the Senior Independent Director was The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board from the well in hand when Norman Blackwell indicated that his April 2014 non-executive Directors of the Group and the Chief Executive.
chairmanship of Lloyds Banking Group Plc would preclude his The Nomination Committees terms of reference include all matters continuing as a non-executive Director at Halma.
Similarly, Steve indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of Marshall undertook the Executive Chairman role at Balfour Beatty plc reference are considered annually by the Nomination Committee and in May 2014 and found that he could not continue to devote the are then referred to the Board for approval.
The full terms of reference timethat is necessary as Remuneration Committee Chairman and were reviewed during the year and updated in April 2015.
The terms non-executive Director of Halma.
As they both stepped down at the of reference can be found on the Companys website or can be conclusion of the July 2014 AGM, the Committee concluded that in obtained from the Company Secretary.
order to ensure continuity and that an appropriate transition process was undergone, with the aim of preserving the Groups culture, The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: Stephen Pettit was invited to remain on the Board until such time ashis experience of Halmas culture was embodied in his colleagues and no regularly review the structure, size and composition including the later than the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee subjected skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board compared Stephen Pettits reappointment to an even more rigorous review to to its current position and make recommendations to the Board ensure Stephen Pettits independence was not compromised and with regard to any changes: thatthe Board supported his reappointment unanimously.
give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into Following Stephen Pettits retirement after the 2015 AGM, and based account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company upon the Committees recommendations, Tony Rice will assume the andthe skills and expertise needed on the Board in the future: and roles of Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates Remuneration Committee.
to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
With Neil Quinns resignation from the Board in May 2015, Governance theNomination Committee has the opportunity to give further The Nomination Committee was in place throughout the financial consideration to the executive composition of the Board in light of the year.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company who was deemed structural changes made to the Executive Board in April 2014 aligning to be independent on appointment to the Board.
Six of the seven it with the four market sectors.
As the structural changes have proven members of the Committee are independent non-executive successful, we have the luxury of being able to take some time to Directors in accordance with provision B.
Steve Marshall and Norman Blackwell were members of the As noted on page 60 and on pages 62 to 64, the process of Committee prior to their retirements on 24 July 2014. appointments to the Board is paramount in ensuring the Companys performance is maintained and continually improved upon.
Key issues and activities On behalf of the Nomination Committee The Committee met onseveral occasions during the year and considered: Paul Walker the re-election of all Directors at the July 2014 annual Chairman generalmeeting: 11 June 2015 succession planning: external board evaluation: Steve Marshall and Norman Blackwells resignations: the independence of non-executive Directors: Stephen Pettits re-election to the Board and its Committees andappointment as SID and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: the nominations and appointments of Jane Aikman and Daniela Barone Soares to the Nomination and Remuneration Committees: and the nomination and appointment of Roy Twite and Tony Rice as non-executive Directors and members of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
When the need to appoint a Director is identified, a candidate profile is developed indicating the skills, knowledge and experience required taking into account the Boards existing composition.
External search consultancies are retained when recruiting non-executive Directors and are used to evaluate internal and external candidates for succession planning.
The Nomination Committee, led by Paul Walker, conducted the non-executive Director succession searches.
A global search firm, JCA Associates, which had no other connection to Halma, was appointed.
A wide range of high calibre candidates was considered for each role.
The Committee and Board confirmed both Roy Twites and Tony Rices independence upon appointment and were unanimous in their decisions to appoint them.
The current search is being conducted similarly with the assistance of the Lygon Group.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
