Board of Directors Paul Walker Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Location UK Location UK Location UK Paul was appointed non-executive Andrew was appointed Chief Kevin was appointed to the Chairman of Halma in July 2013, Executive of Halma plc in February Halmaplc Board in 1998.
He having been appointed to the Board 2005.
He was promoted to Director became Group Finance Director in April 2013.
Paul is non-executive ofthe Halma plc Board in 2004. in1997 after joining the Halma Chairman of Perform Group plc and Andrew joined the Halma Executive Executive Board as Finance Director WANdisco plc and a non-executive Board in 2002 asDivisional Chief in 1995.
Kevin joined Halma as director of Experian plc and Executive afterjoining Halma in Group Financial Controller in 1987.
He was CEO at 1994as Manufacturing Director of Kevin qualified as a Chartered theSage Group plc from 1994 to RetenAcoustics now HWM-Water, Accountant with Price Waterhouse 2010 and has previously served wherehe became Managing Director and is an economics and onthe boards of Diageo plc and in 1997.
He is a Chartered Engineer accounting graduate of Bristol Mytravel Group plc.
Paul qualified and a production engineering University.
He attended the as a Chartered Accountant with graduate of Birmingham University.
Advanced Management Program Ernst & Young, having graduated He attended the Advanced atHarvard Business School in 2007. from York University with an Management Program at Wharton economics degree.
Business School, University of Pennsylvania in 2004.
Andrew is a non-executive director of Capita plc.
Make-up of our Board as at 11 June 2015 Board tenure number of years Board composition Committee membership 1 2 Audit Nom Rem 0-1 22% Chairman 11% Paul Walker 2-3 11% Executive Director 33% Andrew Williams 3-4 11% Non-executive Director 56% 6-10 22% Company Secretary Kevin Thompson 3 10 34% Stephen Pettit Nationality Adam Meyers Gender UK 78% 4 4 Jane Aikman Male 78% USA 11% 4 4 Daniela Barone Soares Female 22% Brazil 11% 5 Roy Twite 6 Tony Rice Chairman Member 1 Nomination 2 Remuneration 3 A ppointed Chairman following Steve Marshalls retirement in July 2014 4 Appointed in April 2014 5 Appointed in July 2014 6 Appointed in August 2014 56 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Adam Meyers Jane Aikman Daniela Barone Soares Stephen Pettit Sector Chief Executive, Medical Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Location USA Location UK Location UK Location UK Adam joined the Halma plc Board in Jane was appointed a nonDaniela was appointed a nonStephen was appointed a nonApril 2008 and is Chief Executive of executive Director of Halma in executive Director of Halma in executive Director of Halma in the Medical sector.
She is Chief Operating November 2011.
Previously member of the Halma Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Executive Officer of Impetus Stephen was a non-executive Board in 2003 as Divisional Chief Phoenix IT Group plc.
director of National Grid plc, Executive, having joined Halma in Jane was Finance Director of Infinis Sheis also a non-executive Director non-executive Chairman of ROK plc, 1996 as President of Bio-Chem Energy Limited, Wilson Bowden Plc of Evora S. A. in Brazil and sits on an executive director with Cable & Valve.
Adam gained his MBA from and Pressac plc.
She spent three theadvisory board of a number Wireless PLC, a member of the BT Harvard Business School and is a years as an internal audit manager ofnon-listed, social sector Group plc Equality of Access Board systems engineering graduate of with GEC Alsthom and five years organisations in the UK and Brazil.
and a divisional chief executive with theUniversity of Pennsylvania.
inEast Asia with Asia Pulp and Daniela is a member of the UK BP PLC.
Stephen has an MSc from PaperCo Limited.
Jane qualified National Advisory Board, which London School of Economics and asa Chartered Accountant advises the G8 Social Impact an MBA from INSEAD and is an withErnst & Young and has a Investment Taskforce.
She has economics and politics graduate degreeincivil engineering from previously held senior roles at Save ofCardiff University.
the Children, BancBoston Capital, Inc. Goldman, Sachs & Co. New York and Citibank, N. A. Brazil.
Daniela has an MBA from Harvard Business School and a BSc in economics from Universidade Estadual fide Campinas UNICAMP, Brazil.
Tony Rice Roy Twite Carol Chesney Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary Location UK Location UK Location UK Tony was appointed a non-executive Roy was appointed a non-executive Carol was appointed Company Director of Halma in August 2014.
He Director of Halma in July 2014.
He Secretary of Halma plc in 1998. is the Senior Independent Director isan executive director at IMI plc, Shejoined Halma in 1995 as Group and remuneration committee having been appointed to the plc Finance Manager having spent three Chairman of Spirit Pub Company board in February 2007.
During his years with English China Clays plc.
Tony was formerly chief career with IMI, Roy has led all of the She qualified as a Chartered executive officer of Cable & Wireless divisions including Severe Service Accountant with Arthur Andersen Communications plc.
Earlier in his 2011, Fluid Power 2009, Beverage andis a mathematics graduate of career, Tony was CEO of Tunstall Plc and Merchandising 2007 and Randolph-Macon Womans College, and held a number of senior roles in Indoor Climate 2004.
Carol is a non-executive BAE Systems plc including British aBEng in Engineering from director of Renishaw plc where Aerospace.
Tony has a BA in Nottingham University and gained shechairs the Audit Committee.
Business Studies from City of his Masters in Manufacturing London College, an MBA from Business Leadership from Cranfield School of Management Cambridge University in 1998. and is a member of both the Association of Corporate Treasurers and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57
