Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Code of best practice following Roy Twites appointment in July 2014 and Tony Rices As required by the Listing Rules this Report explains how the appointment in August 2014.
Nevertheless, the Board and committee Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions compositions remained compliant throughout the year.
ofthe Corporate Governance Code the Code that was published With the exception of Stephen Pettit, in accordance with the in2012 by the Financial Reporting Council which applied to the Codeeach of the Directors, being eligible, will offer themselves Company throughout the year ended 28 March 2015. forelection or re-election at the AGM.
Stephen Pettit will be retiring from the Board with effect from the end of the AGM and the Board Throughout the year, the Company has fully complied with the isin theprocess of appointing a successor.
Further details on their provisions as set out in the Code.
The Groups internal controls resignations and appointment are provided on pages 62, 70 and 71. are summarised on pages 26 and 27.
The Board has determined its ideal composition as a Chairman, Annual Report and Accounts fiveindependent non-executive Directors and, more recently, In accordance with the Code, the Directors confirm that they threeexecutive Directors.
The Board views this composition as consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, anappropriate structure forthe Company providing valuable direct is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information knowledge of operations and effective challenge surrounding the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, issues facing the Group.
TheBoard underwent some changes during business model and strategy.
the year with two non-executive Directors retiring after the July 2014 AGM, but the position was restored to five non-executive Directors Reporting Requirements Chart Reporting requirement Location Description of the business model and strategy.
Chief Executives Strategic Review and Sector Reviews See pages 6 to 25 and 32 to 39 Description of the significant issues that the Audit Committee Audit Committee Report considered in relation to the financial statements and how these See page 69 issues were addressed, having regard to the matters communicated to it by the external audit team.
Explanation of how the Audit Committee has assessed the Audit Committee Report effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach See page 68 takento the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor to enable shareholders to understand why it recommended reappointing or changing the auditor.
Identification of search consultancies used and any connections Corporate Governance Report and with the Company.
Nomination Committee report See pages 62 and 71 Statement that the Directors consider that the Annual Report and Corporate Governance Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable Audit Committee Report and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the See pages 59 and 69 Companys business model and strategy.
Future policy table and notes, performance scenario charts, Remuneration Committee Report remuneration obligations in service contracts and statement See pages 72 to 90 ofshareholder vote on the 2013 14 remuneration report.
Implementation report, remuneration paid to service advisers, Remuneration Committee Report single total figure tables, CEO pay comparison to company See pages 72 to 90 performance and relative importance of spend on pay.
Directors shareholdings and variable pay awarded in the year.
Remuneration Committee Report See pages 72 to 90 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board re-election.
The Board confirms that all Directors standing for election The Board considered the independence of the Chairman and or re-election continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment eachof the non-executive Directors and subjected Stephen Pettits to their roles, following the performance evaluation as described on term as a non-executive Director to particular rigorous review.
Detailsare given on pages 64, 70 and 71.
The Board continues to Details of Directors biographies appear on pages 56 and 57 and in regard Stephen Pettit, who retires after the AGM in July 2015, as the Notice of Meeting.
independent and considers the Chairman and all non-executive Directors to be independent of management and free from business The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of corporate and other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of strategy, investment decisions and treasury and risk management independent judgment now and in the future.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the thatany shareholdings of the Chairman and non-executive Directors Boards decision and the Board meets at least six times each year serve to align their interests with those of shareholders.
with further ad hoc meetings as required.
Directors are issued an agenda and comprehensive electronic Board papers in the week Upon appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are offered preceding each Board meeting.
All Directors have access to the appropriate training.
Under the Companys Articles, each Director is advice and services of the Company Secretary as well as there being subject to re-election at least once every three years however, since an agreed procedure for obtaining independent professional advice.
2011, the Board agreed that each Director shall stand for annual Board meeting attendance During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows: Committees Overall attendance 1 Board attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination % Paul Walker 6 6 4 4 4 4 100% Andrew Williams 6 6 4 4 100% Kevin Thompson 6 6 100% 1 Stephen Pettit 5 6 3 3 4 4 4 4 94% Neil Quinn 6 6 100% Jane Aikman 6 6 3 3 3 3 3 3 100% Adam Meyers 6 6 100% 2 Daniela Barone Soares 5 6 2 3 2 3 2 3 73% Roy Twite 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 100% Tony Rice 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 100% Lord Blackwell 3 3 1 1 2 2 3 3 100% 3 Steve Marshall 2 3 0 1 1 2 2 3 56% 1 S tephen Pettit was unable to attend the Board meeting on 30 September 2014, due to commitments made prior to the extension of his current term.
2 Daniela Barone Soares was unable to attend the committee and Board meetings held on 13 November 2014 due to illness.
3 Steve Marshall was unable to attend the committee and Board meetings held on 5 June 2014, due to executive chairman responsibilities elsewhere.
60 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans responsibilities Chief Executives responsibilities Governance promoting high standards of corporate governance: providing coherent leadership and management of the leading, chairing and managing the Board: Company with the Chairman: ensuring all Board committees are properly structured and developing objectives, strategy and performance standards operate with appropriate terms of reference: tobe agreed by the Board: regularly considering the composition and succession providing input to the Boards agenda: planning of the Board and its committees: providing effective leadership of the Executive Board to ensuring that the Board and its committees performances achieve the agreed strategies and objectives: areevaluated on a regular basis: and securing an Executive Board of the right calibre, with specific ensuring adequate time is available for all agenda items.
responsibility for its composition, and that its succession plan is reviewed annually with the Chairman and the non-executive Strategy Directors: leading the Board in developing the strategy of the business monitoring, reviewing and managing key risks and strategies and achievement of its objectives: with the Board: promoting open and constructive debate in Board meetings: ensuring that the assets of the Group are adequately ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions with the safeguarded and maintained: support of the Chief Executive: building and maintaining the Companys communications and ensuring the Board manages risk effectively: and standing with shareholders, financial institutions and the public consulting where appropriate with the Senior Independent and effectively communicating the Halma plc investment Director on Board matters.
proposition to all stakeholders: ensuring the Board is aware of the view of employees on People issues of relevance to Halma plc: chairing the Nomination Committee: living and fostering the Group values which promote ethical identifying and meeting the induction and development needs practices, integrity and a positive work climate, enabling the of the Board and its committees: Group to attract, retain and motivate a diverse group of high developing a strong working relationship with the Chief quality employees: and Executive: leading by example in establishing a performance orientated, ensuring a strong working relationship between executive and customer focused and publicly responsible Group culture.
non-executive Directors: setting clear expectations concerning the Companys culture, values and behaviours: and ensuring effective relationships are maintained with all major stakeholders in the business.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Corporate Governance Report continued Board constitution Board diversity Halma refreshed the composition and diversity of its Board with The Board reviewed the report of Lord Davies published in February theappointment of Roy Twite and Tony Rice as non-executive 2011 on Boardroom Diversity and contributed to the FRC review of Directors in July 2014 and August 2014.
The Nomination Committee Gender Diversity on Boards noting its support for the benefits of considered a wide and diverse range of candidates and the Board, greater diversity, which is not just gender specific, but relates also having given each Director the opportunity to meet Roy Twite and toother factors such as market and international experience and Tony Rice, confirmed their independence upon appointment.
The Board agrees that a manufacturing and Board unanimously decided to appoint Roy effective following the technology company such as Halma needs to adopt policies to conclusion of the July 2014 AGM and Tony a month later.
attract a greater number of females into management roles.
The Board has reinforced this necessity through the repositioning, Succession planning for the Senior Independent Director and adoption and implementation of Halmas Diversity and Inclusion Remuneration Committee chairman has been conducted and Halma Policy detailed on page 45 rather than by setting quotas.
Halma is in the process of identifying Stephen Pettits successor.
The Board aims to improve the representation of women in senior roles and on search for a new independent non-executive Director is led by our the Board of Directors by applying our newly repositioned policy and Chairman, Paul Walker.
A global search firm, Lygon Group, which reviewing implementation to ensure that Halma maintains a diverse hasno other connection to Halma was appointed.
The Board is and inclusive culture.
To assist these efforts, operating company considering a wide and diverse range of candidates.
boards are being encouraged to invite local personnel, with diverse skillsets, to attend local board meetings when their disciplines are These matters are discussed in the Nomination Committee Report under review.
Such exposure to the boardroom will develop these on pages 70 and 71. individuals but also provide these boards with a fresh perspective.
Board induction The Group also conducted diversity and inclusiveness awareness Newly appointed non-executive Directors follow an induction training for approximately 250 senior executives at HITE in 2015. programme which includes dedicated time with Group executives and scheduled trips to a variety of companies in each of the four sectors.
As at year end, the Board had a total of 10 Directors.
The skill All new Directors appointed to the Board have a comprehensive set of the non-executive Directors includes financial, economics, induction programme tailored to their individual needs.
banking, engineering, technology, IT, communications and consumer expertise.
They included eight British, one American and one Brazilian Roy Twite and Tony Rice both met with the Company Secretary nationals.
Currently, 22% of the Board are women.
toreview their tailored induction pack which included Halmas governance and risk management structure, Board evaluations, Halma has the ambition to increase the number of executives Board and Committee meeting minutes, strategy papers, recent basedoutside Europe and the USA to better reflect the proportion analyst and broker reports on Halma, and access to Halmas policies ofour revenue generated outside those markets.
The diversity of and procedures manual was also provided.
As well as providing a allother employees is detailed on page 45 within the Corporate schedule of meetings with executives and company visits, Roy Twite Responsibility report.
and Tony Rice also attended the biennial Halma Innovation and Technology Exposition HITE in 2015 to gain a better understanding of the Halma group, its strategy, its operating companies, the management teams and their products.
Board activity throughout the financial year April 2014 July 2014 November 2014 Budget AGM Half-year results Chairman and NED fees AGM trading update IMS PSP vesting update HITE and CEO conference objectives PSP awards Consideration of Board Evaluation process Pensions strategy update SIP award consideration internal external review Board Calendar TSR performance Sector review June 2014 October 2014 February 2015 Preliminary Results Strategy three-year plan Budget initial Evaluation of prior year objectives Relative attractions of different sectors Remuneration Committee proposals Annual objectives for Group Candidates for acquisition disposal Results of Board effectiveness survey and meetings Environmental policy annual approval and target setting Review of progress towards annual objectives Trading update Dividend proposal planning External sum of the parts valuation Risk management review Pension fund accounts Debt capital structure considerations Cyber security Assessment of upper quartile performance Succession planning update management bench Special Guarantees guidelines update Cyber security Matters Reserved for the Board Cyber security 62 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board activity throughout the year 2014 15 The Board members fulsome and constructive responses indicated During the year the Board received training and briefing updates that whilst there are several areas in which behaviours could be onour sectors, market assessments and changes in market modified, or practices tweaked to increase the effectiveness of the conditions, details of acquisition opportunities and geographic Board, the overall assessment concluded that the Board exhibits priorities, succession planning, changes in corporate governance, excellence across many areas of its responsibilities with levels of riskmanagement and compliance, audits, bribery and corruption, functionality that are uniformly impressively high.
health and safety, environmental matters, cyber security, city The report noted that the Board behaves as one team but with each andshareholder matters, and other relevant legislative and individual having a valued voice: an atmosphere of robust but positive accounting changes.
The Directors have a programmed schedule of meetings and The timing of the external review provided an opportunity for the visitswith the Executive Board, Group companies and Halmas Boardmembers to reflect on the organisational and reporting development programmes to ensure that they are able to engage changes that have occurred over the previous 18 months.
These with management and employees at all levels.
The Directors changes include, not only the structural changes to the four sectors alsoattend the biennial HITE and the associated conferences.
and the appointment of the Group Talent Director, but the way Board, committee and Executive Board meetings are conducted.
Board performance and evaluation TheBoards enthusiastic support for these changes has also been The Board considers the evaluation of its performance as a whole reinforced by the Groups performance and how Halma is now and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees positioned to capitalise on its increased agility both for centrally annually, with each Committee also evaluating its own performance.
The aim of the evaluations is to improve the effectiveness of the Board The report also commented on the strength of Halmas senior and its members as well as the performance of the Company.
The management, with their rise through the ranks being a model for Board ensures that an external facilitator is engaged at least every others, but also endowing the Board with a refreshing combination third year.
Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review performed the first ofinvaluable service coupled with immense loyalty with no signs of external review in 2011 12 covering the full Board and Committee fatigue.
However, the Board recognises that exposure to other evaluations.
For 2012 13 and 2013 14, the Company Secretary operating boards can benefit Halma, so additional encouragement facilitated an internal evaluation of Board performance and that of forsenior executives to seek an external non-executive Director the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
for2014 15, the Board underwent an  review ofthe Board and its Committees conducted by EquityCommunications, The future size and composition of the Board was one area that an independent consultancy firm.
produced a divergence of opinion which, ultimately, helped inform the Boards view on executive succession in the lead up to Neil Quinns This evaluation was conducted between November 2014 and retirement from the Board.
Whilst previously the Board had considered January 2015 by way of interviews with each Director.
The interviews the ideal composition to be four executive Directors, Neils retirement, were based on 14 questions that EquityCommunications developed combined with the new organisational structure afforded the Board in consultation with the Chairman and Company Secretary, focusing time to consider its options and time to provide additional Board on the Boards strategic priorities.
The outcome was first discussed exposure to the executive team on a rotational basis.
with the Chairman and subsequently presented to the full Board.
The evaluation results were circulated to the Board in February 2015 and The Board was united in its view about future Board skills and then prioritised at the April 2015 Board meeting.
More diversity would be welcome, and for Halma this goes deeper than gender, geography and age.
Whilst Halma would welcome extending female membership of the Board, and nonBoard activity throughout the financial year executive Directors with native geographic experience, especially in the Far East, the Board values diversity of experience and outlook just April 2014 July 2014 November 2014 as highly as gender.
Developing this diversity further is a goal for most.
Budget AGM Half-year results In common with many boards, executive succession was noted Chairman and NED fees AGM trading update IMS PSP vesting update during the interviews as being of utmost importance: greater HITE and CEO conference objectives PSP awards Consideration of Board Evaluation process discussion with the entire Board was encouraged.
Pensions strategy update SIP award consideration internal external review In terms of strategic planning, the Board concluded that its Board Calendar TSR performance comprehensive programme ensured alignment of short to Sector review medium-term priorities.
June 2014 October 2014 February 2015 Performance evaluation cycle Preliminary Results Strategy three-year plan Budget initial Evaluation of prior year objectives Relative attractions of different sectors Remuneration Committee proposals Year 1 Annual objectives for Group Candidates for acquisition disposal Results of Board effectiveness survey and meetings External evaluation facilitation Environmental policy annual approval and target setting Review of progress towards annual objectives Trading update Dividend proposal planning External sum of the parts valuation Risk management review Pension fund accounts Debt capital structure considerations Cyber security Year 2 Assessment of upper quartile performance Succession planning update management bench Internal review Special Guarantees guidelines update Cyber security Matters Reserved for the Board Cyber security Year 3 Internal review Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Corporate Governance Report continued Board governance structure Board Key committees Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Committee Committee Committee Board Other committees Bank Guarantees Acquisitions Share Plans and Facilities and Disposals Committee Committee Committee As in prior years, the Board also met in February 2015 before Investor relations thescheduled Board meeting to provide a forum for discussion The Board recognises the importance of effective communication with oftheBoard evaluation outside the formal Board meeting.
In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts hasproven useful for a number of years.
The Chairman and nonthe Chief Executive and Finance Director communicate the Groups executive Directors also meet at least once each year without strategy and results, disclosing such information as is permitted within executive Directors present to ensure there is an opportunity to the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
Such meetings ensure that discuss potentially sensitive matters.
The Chief Executive will join institutional shareholders representing over 50% of the Companys thisGroup for part of these meetings at least once per annum.
issued share capital meet or hold discussions with the Company on TheSenior Independent Director is also available to meet with the a regular basis.
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity non-executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The Executives to meet the Chairman and or Senior Independent Director.
Notes are also given the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and or the from all investor meetings are circulated to the Chairman with investor Senior Independent Director separately.
The outcome of these feedback results from roadshows circulated to the whole Board.
meetings is fed back to individuals by the Chairman, Senior During the year, the Remuneration Committee conducted a review Independent Director or Chief Executive, as appropriate.
ofthe remuneration policies and practices of the Company and consulted the top 10 shareholders regarding its proposals.
More Committees of the Board details related to this process are included on pages 72, 73 and 80.
Our Committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate governance structure.
The workload of the committees includes All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general the table of scheduled meetings as well as ad hoc meetings and meeting where they can gain a better understanding of the Company.
communications frequently requiring considerable amounts of time.
Shareholders are able to pose questions to the Board on the matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and Accounts and Halma has six committees and sub-committees of the Board: the themanagement of the Company.
Major shareholders are also invited Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration to briefings following the half-year and annual results.
This year, the Committee, the Share Plans Committee, the Bank Guarantees and Board hosted a dinner on 5 March 2015 inLondon at which analysts Facilities Committee and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
and institutional investors had the opportunity to meet with members of Each of these committees has terms of reference which have been the Groups Executive Board.
No new material financial information nor recently reviewed, updated and approved by the Board, copies update on current trading is provided at such events.
The content of of which are available on the website or on request from the presentations to shareholders and analysts at results announcements Company Secretary.
and all announcements are available on the Group website: Minutes of committee meetings are made available to all Directors www.
and the Chairmen of each of the three key Board committees, the The Group website also contains electronic versions of the latest Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, provide regular Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year Reports, biographical updates to the Board.
As of April 2014, all non-executive Directors information on Directors and the Executive Board, share price sit on the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
information, and full subsidiary company contact details as well as The Executive Board, whilst not a sub-committee of the Board links to their own websites.
The website also features the facility to nonetheless provides another means of reinforcement of the request e-mail alerts relating to announcements made by the Group Companys operational and corporate governance structure and there is a feedback form to invite suggestions for improvements operating within guidelines that reflect the Matters Reserved for to the website and our investor relations activities.
A chart setting out the Companys Board and committees structure is given above with the Board and Committee memberships and Directors biographical details shown separately on pages 56 and 57.
The responsibilities of the key Board Committees and the key issues and activities during 2014 15 are set out in the following Committee reports on pages 66 to 90.
64 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholders can keep up to date with the latest Halma financial Internal control news, on the move, with our Investor Relations iPad app.
This is The Board has overall responsibility to the shareholders for the available as a free download from the Apple iTunes store, as detailed Groups system of internal control and risk management, and the below.
The app is updated at the same time as our website and review of the systems effectiveness has been delegated to the delivers news releases, regulatory announcements, presentations, AuditCommittee.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against reports, webcasts, videos, financial documents and the share price.
material misstatements or loss, this system is designed to identify andmanage those risks that could adversely impact the achievement To help investors understand the scope of our business we have of the Groups objectives.
The Groups risk management structure produced an Introduction to Halma animated video.
This can be and process is detailed on pages 26 and 27.
The Groups principal viewed from the home page of our website www.
com and risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 28 to 31. from our iPad investor app.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Type this link into your browser to go to the Halma Investor Relations evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, app download page on iTunes: http: goo.
gl 4W91y which has been in place for the year under review and up to the dateof approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process The Financial calendar is set out on page 164. has been reviewed by the Board and the Board is satisfied that the Group accords with the FRC guidance on risk management and internal control.
The Board made several enhancements in the Shareholders number at 13 May 2015 conduct of the process during the year and will continue to review thesystem routinely to ensure that the system of internal control andrisk management remains fit for purpose.
1-5,000 78.7% The Groups external Auditor, Deloitte LLP, has audited the financial 5,001-25,000 13.0% statements and has reviewed the financial control systems to the 25,001-100,000 4.1% extent Deloitte considers necessary to support the audit report.
100,001-750,000 2.9% Going concern 750,001 and over 1.3% The Groups business activities, together with the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, and the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are set out in the Strategic Report.
In addition, note 26 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, Analysis of shares number at 13 May 2015 its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to currency andliquidity risks.
1-5,000 1.8% The Group has considerable financial resources including a 360m 5,001-25,000 2.3% five-year revolving credit facility, of which 220m was undrawn at 25,001-100,000 3.6% 28March 2015 together with contracts with a diverse range of 100,001-750,000 15.0% customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and 750,001 and over 77.3% industries.
No one customer accounts for more than 2% of Group turnover.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group iswell placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After conducting a formal review of the Groups financial resources, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Results of our 2014 annual general meeting the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue Total Total toadopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report votes votes Votes andAccounts.
for against withheld % % % 1 Report and Accounts 99.8 0.0 0.2 2 Dividend 99.8 0.0 0.2 3 Remuneration Policy 96.2 1.0 2.8 4 Remuneration Report 98.9 0.3 0.8 512 Directors 92.6 to 99.5 0.2 to 7.1 0.3 13 Reappointment of Auditor 99.8 0.0 0.2 14 Auditors remuneration 99.8 0.0 0.2 15 Authority to allot shares 98.9 0.9 0.2 16 Disapplication of pre-emption rights 99.6 0.1 0.3 17 A uthority to purchase own shares 99.7 0.1 0.2 18 Notice of general meetings 93.1 6.7 0.2 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65
