OUR GOVERNANCE NOMINATTION COMMITTEE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER Halfords.
com There were two meetings held during the year The past year was a significant and, after each Committee meeting, I reported to and busy year for the Committee.
the Board on the key issues discussed during the ALMOST In addition to its key responsibility 00% meeting.
A number of informal discussions were of ensuring that an effective Board KEY FACT also held between Committee members and me.
90 million and Committees are in place, the The Committees terms of reference are available Committee oversaw the process VISITS on the Companys corporate website www.
for the appointment of the Groups halfordscompany.
new Chief Executive Officer, Jill McDonald.
Dennis Millard Nomination Committee Chairman I was delighted when Jill agreed to join the 4 June 2015 Group and take up the role of CEO and I am certain that she will bring new perspective to the Board, based on her professional and personal experience.
Additional information on the activities of the Committee, including the details of the process leading to the appointment of the new CEO and the services provided by Egon Zehnder, executive search agency, are set out in this report.
Getting Into Gear 50 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION DIVERSITY LOOKING AHEAD Dennis Millard Chairman The Committee and the Board have sought In the year ahead, the Nomination Committee will Jill McDonald joined 11 May 2015 to ensure that appointments are of the best continue to assess the Board composition and David Adams candidates to promote the success of the Group how it may be enhanced.
It has also embarked Claudia Arney and are based on merit, with due regard for the upon the search for a replacement for Andrew Helen Jones benefits of diversity on the Board while also Findlay, the Chief Financial Officer, who will leave Matt Davies resigned 30 April 2015 meeting the requirements of the Equality Act the Company in October 2015.
We previously made a commitment to Keith Harris resigned 31 May 2014 further strengthen gender diversity amongst the workforce and, further to this commitment, the The Committees role is to review the size and Board appointed Jill McDonald as the Groups structure of the Board, consider succession new CEO, bringing the percentage of female planning and make recommendations to the Board members to 50%.
This exceeds the EUs Board on potential candidates for the Board.
guideline of 40% female Board representation by Its key objective is to ensure that the Board 2020. comprises individuals with the necessary skill, knowledge and experience to ensure that the The Company does not currently publish specific Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
diversity targets but in practice, it has created a more balanced Board and Executive Management PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Team and continues to work to ensure this is The Committees focus during the year was replicated across the entire business, in particular overseeing the process for the appointment of in relation to gender diversity.
a new CEO, following Matt Davies resignation.
The Committee set out the types of skills and Further information regarding diversity Board can attributes it envisaged a new CEO would possess, be found on page 48. which it captured in its briefing to executive search agency, Egon Zehnder, which identified potential candidates for the role.
Committee members interviewed candidates for the role and thereafter recommended the recruitment of Jill McDonald to the Board.
