Executive Board Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Adam Meyers Nigel Trodd Chief Executive Finance Director Sector Chief Executive, Medical Sector Chief Executive, Location UK Location UK Location USA Infrastructure Safety Location UK Andrew was appointed Chief Kevin was appointed to the Halma Adam joined the Halma plc Board in Nigel joined the Executive Board in Executive of Halma plc in February plc Board in 1998.
He became April 2008 and is Chief Executive of July 2003 andis Chief Executive of 2005.
He was promoted to Director Group Finance Director in 1997 after the Medical sector.
He became a the Infrastructure Safety sector.
He of the Halma plc Board in 2004. joining the Halma Executive Board member of the Halma Executive had joined Halma in July 2003 as Andrew joined the Halma Executive asFinance Director in 1995.
Kevin Board in 2003 as Divisional Chief Chief Executive of the Process Board in 2002 as Divisional Chief joined Halma as Group Financial Executive, having joined Halma in Safety Division.
Nigel is amember of Executive after joining Halma in 1994 Controller in 1987.
Kevin qualifiedas 1996 as President of Bio-Chem the Chartered Institute of Marketing as Manufacturing Director of Reten a Chartered Accountant with Price Valve.
Adam gained his MBA from and a business studies graduate Acoustics now HWM-Water, where Waterhouse and is an economics Harvard Business School and is ofThames Valley University.
He he became Managing Director in and accounting graduate of Bristol asystems engineering graduate relocated to Singapore in April 2012 1997.
He is a Chartered Engineer University.
He attended the oftheUniversity of Pennsylvania.
and a production engineering Advanced Management Program graduate of Birmingham University.
He attended the Advanced Management Program at Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania in2004.
Andrew is a non-executive director of Capita plc.
Chuck Dubois Philippe Felten Jennifer Ward Martin Zhang Sector Chief Executive, Sector Chief Executive, Group Talent Director President Halma China Environmental & Analysis Process Safety Location UK Location China Location USA Location Belgium Chuck was appointed to the Philippe was appointed to the Jennifer was appointed as Halmas Martin is a member of the Halma Executive Board inApril 2008 Executive Board in April 2012 and first Group Talent Director in March Executive Board since 2010 and, andisChief Executive of the isSector Chief Executive of the 2014.
Prior to joining Halma, prior to that, an adviser to that Environmental & Analysis sector.
He joined Jennifer spent over 15 years leading Board from February 2008.
He Hejoined theGroup in 1999 as Vice theGroup as Sales Director of BEA HR, Talent and Organisational joined the Group in June 2006 and President of Perma PureLLC and Europe when that company was Development for divisions of has since successfully established was previously President of Diba acquired in 2002 and was later PayPal an eBay company, Bank and expanded Halma Chinas Industries.
He earned his MBA from ChiefExecutive of BEA Group.
Martin holds an the F. W. OlinSchool of Business Philippe completed the Programme a Masters degree from Michigan Executive MBA from the University atBabson College and holds for Executive Development at IMD State University and a Bachelor of of Texas at Arlington Tongji aBachelors degree in physics Lausanne, holds a Bachelor degree Science degree from Oregon University Shanghai and a fromthe College ofthe Holy Cross.
in Marketing and Management State University.
Bachelors degree in chemical Chuck attended the Advanced ICHEC Brussels and is an engineering from Chengdu Management Program at Harvard Electro-Mechanical Engineer University of Science and Business School in 2013.
Martin attended the Advanced Management Program atWharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania in 2014and is also a Certified Management Accountant.
58 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
