GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT In ensuring we fulfil our aim to be the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business, the Nomination Committee adopts a rigorous and transparent approach to Board succession and director recruitment to ensure the best-placed individual with the right skills, knowledge and experience to enhance the performance of the business is appointed.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee has continued The Committee is appointed by the Board.
It The role of the Committee is summarised to support the Board during the year in is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and below and detailed in full in its terms of ensuring its composition has the right balance comprises the non-executive directors, all of reference, a copy of which is available on of skills, experience, independence and whom are independent, save for the Chairman the Companys website haysplc.
com knowledge to best serve the business and who was independent on appointment.
fulfil the Boards responsibility to shareholders names and qualifications of the Committees in the ever-changing environment in which current members are set out in the directors The main responsibilities of the Committee the Company operates.
biographies on pages 44 and 45. are to: With William Eccleshare having retired during The Committee meets as required and did Review the structure, size and the year and Richard Smelt retiring from so twice during the year and all members composition including skills, the Board at the forthcoming AGM, the were in attendance except Paul Harrison who knowledge, experience, diversity Nomination Committee has been working on could not attend one meeting due to prior and balance of executive and nonthe profile of individual or individuals required commitments.
Other regular attendees at executive directors of the Board to be recruited to ensure the Board has the Committee meetings include the Company and its Committees and make right skills and experience to fulfil the Boards Secretary and, on invitation, the Chief recommendations to the Board aim for Hays to be the worlds pre-eminent Executive and Group Finance Director.
with regard to any changes: specialist recruitment business.
Consider succession planning for MAIN COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING The Zygos Partnership were appointed to directors and other senior executives: THE FINANCIALYEAR facilitate the appointment of Peter Williams, Identify and nominate for the approval Considered Board succession plans and they remain engaged as our search of the Board, candidates to fill Board for additional candidate s continues.
Reviewed the composition of the Board vacancies: and and its Committees Keep under review the time Board appointments will continue to be Reviewed the Committees terms commitment expected from the made on merit, and the Committee of reference Chairman and the non-executive recognises the benefits of diversity and directors.
provided we remain true to our key principles, Considered the appointment of we will aim to build on our existing diverse a further non-executive director composition in the future.
Considered and recommended the election and re-election of each Further non-executive appointments to the director, as appropriate, at the AGM Board remain under consideration.
ALAN THOMSON NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 27 August 2015 52|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR In the year ahead, the Committee will TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS APPOINTMENT PROCESS continue to assess the Boards composition Appointments to the Board are made for The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and and how it may be enhanced and will initial terms not exceeding three years and are transparent procedure for the appointment consider diversity gender and experience ordinarily limited to three such terms in office.
of new directors and senior executives with and geographic representation and due regard to diversity.
Prior to making an continue to use independent consultants DIRECTOR PERFORMANCE appointment, the Committee will evaluate the as appropriate to ensure a broad search Having reviewed the independence and balance of skills, knowledge, experience and for suitable candidates.
contribution of directors, the Committee diversity on the Board and, in light of this confirms that the performance of each evaluation, will prepare a description of the SUCCESSION PLANNING of the directors standing for election or role and capabilities required, with a view to A key task of the Committee is to keep re-election at the 2015 AGM continues to appointing the best-placed individual for the under review the Companys succession be effective and demonstrates commitment role.
In identifying suitable candidates, the plans for members of the Board over the to their roles, including independence of Committee uses open advertising or the short, medium and longer term, to ensure judgment, commitment of time for Board and services of external advisers to facilitate the the Board remains appropriately balanced Committee meetings and any other duties.
search and considers candidates on merit and between new and innovative thinking and against objective criteria and ensuring that longer-term stability.
The focus during the Accordingly, the Committee has appointees have sufficient time to devote 2015 financial year has been on identifying recommended to the Board that, with to the position, in light of other significant a suitable replacement for Richard Smelt, as the exception of Richard Smelt, all current commitments, and no conflicts of interest.
well as planning for the succession of other directors of the Company be proposed Board members.
for election or re-election, at the A long-list of potential candidates would forthcoming AGM.
be drawn up, from which an appropriate Board appointment criteria are considered number would be shortlisted for interview automatically as part of the Committees based upon their fulfilment of the appointment approach on succession planning.
The Committee would then Committee believes that limited tenure recommend to the Board the appointment and the subsequent enforced retirement of the preferred candidate or candidates, if of directors is not always appropriate for there is more than one considered suitable sound business leadership.
matters of director tenure are viewed on a case-by-case basis.
During the year the Committee retained The Zygos Partnership in respect of Peter At present, the Board has not set any specific Williams appointment and they remain aspirations in respect of gender diversity engaged as further non-executive director though it believes that refreshment of the appointments are considered.
The Zygos Board should take into account the need to Partnership is an independent executive consider diversity in all forms.
search consultancy and it has no other connection with the Company.
Committee member Meeting attendance FY15 Alan Thomson Chairman 2 of 2 1 William Eccleshare 2 of 2 Paul Harrison 1 of 2 Victoria Jarman 2 of 2 Torsten Kreindl 2 of 2 Richard Smelt 2 of 2 Pippa Wicks 2 of 2 2 Peter Williams 0 of 0 1 William Eccleshare retired from the Board on 12 November 2014.
2 Peter Williams was appointed to the Board on 24 February 2015.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|53
