GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT THE HAYS BOARD OPERATIONAL GOVERNANCE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD THE MANAGEMENT BOARD Statement of Code The Board is currently made up of two Responsibility for the day-to-day Compliance executive directors and seven non-executive management of our business and operations directors, including the Chairman.
Their rests with the Chief Executive, who operates Hays plc is subject to the UK Corporate biographies, including prior experience, through the Management Board the Governance Code the Code issued by are set out on pages 44 and 45. principal executive committee within Hays.
the Financial Reporting Council available In performing this role, the Management at frc.
uk, which was published in Board also has responsibility for monitoring Hays Group policy is to hire the best September 2012.
As a listed company, candidates for all positions at all levels detailed performance of all aspects of Hays is required to report on how it has our business.
throughout the business, irrespective of applied the principles of the Code and gender, including candidates at Board level.
this is set out in the following pages.
The With two female independent non-executive The Management Board, which meets Board is pleased to report that Hays has directors, namely Victoria Jarman and Pippa monthly, is chaired by the Chief Executive and complied with all of the provisions of the Wicks, 22% of the current Board is female also comprises the Group Finance Director, Code throughout the year ended 30 June representing 28.5% of non-executives.
the Company Secretary & General Counsel, 2015 and to the date of this document.
Further information and statistics on gender the Group HR Director, the Chief Marketing diversity can be found within our Corporate Officer, the Group Technology Director and Responsibility Report on page 39.
The Board the Managing Directors of the Groups three has not set any specific aspirations in respect main operating divisions.
Each Management GENDER COMPOSITION of gender diversity at Board level and Board member has a clearly defined remit, Female 22% supports fully the Code principles in respect business objectives and financial budget Male 78% of diversity.
However, the Board is of the view within which they operate.
that diversity is less about quotas, and recognises the benefits of diversity, of which Our organisational structure is built around gender is one aspect, and it will continue to three regions globally: UK & Ireland: Continental ensure that this is taken into account when Europe & Rest of World: and Asia Pacific.
considering any particular appointment, Regional Managing Directors operate their whilst ensuring appointments are made on business through regional boards, which merit and ability to enhance the performance comprise key business and functional of the business.
managers with specific responsibilities within those regions.
Each business is given BOARD CHANGES DURING THE YEAR operational autonomy, as far as possible, Board composition is routinely reviewed to within a well-established internal control ensure that the balance of skills, knowledge framework which consists of, among other and experience of the Hays Board remains things, a Group-wide set of policies and appropriate to its business.
William Eccleshare procedures, operational delegated authorities BOARD COMPOSITION retired from the Board at the conclusion of and policies on anti-bribery and corruption, Executive 22% our 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM : competition compliance, conduct and ethics, Chairman 11% Peter Williams was appointed to the Board in and whistleblowing.
Richard Smelt will retire from the Board following the conclusion of the LEADERSHIP Companys 2015 AGM on 11 November 2015.
THE ROLE OF THE HAYS PLC BOARD Work to add to the Boards number continues The Board is collectively responsible to the and further information can be found in the Companys shareholders for the long-term Nomination Committee Report on page 52. success of the Company.
It sets the Companys strategic objectives and ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF determines the risk appetite and control DIRECTORS AT THE 2015 AGM framework within which those objectives In accordance with the Companys Articles are achieved.
The Board provides effective of Association and the principles of the Code, oversight of the Company and its businesses with the exception of Richard Smelt all within a robust governance structure that Directors of the Company will offer themselves helps achieve the long-term success of for election or re-election at the 2015 AGM.
the Company and deliver sustainable Having received advice from the Nomination shareholder value.
Committee, the Board is satisfied that each director is qualified for election or re-election by virtue of their skills, experience and commitment to the Board.
46|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Board also provides leadership of the The terms and conditions of appointment SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Company and direction for management, of non-executive directors, including the The Board appointed Paul Harrison to the ensuring that the necessary financial and expected time commitment, are available for position of Senior Independent Director on human resources are in place for the inspection at the Companys registered office, 9 November 2011.
In performing this role Company to meet its objectives and it keeps and a pro forma letter of appointment is Paul provides shareholders with someone under review managements performance also available on the Companys website.
to whom they can turn if ever they have in regard to achieving those objectives.
concerns which they cannot address through During the year, the Board considered the the normal channels, for example with the Chairman or executive directors.
Similarly, Our aim is to be the worlds pre-eminent independence of each of the non-executive specialist recruitment business.
In pursuit directors, save for the Chairman who was as Senior Independent Director Paul is available as an intermediary between his of that aim our employees across the globe deemed independent by the Board at the work towards achieving our Strategic date of his appointment.
In doing so, it fellow directors and the Chairman.
While there were no requests from directors Objectives, set out on page 15.
The Board concluded that each non-executive director closely monitors management and its delivery remained independent of management and or shareholders for access to the Senior Independent Director during the year, of a sustainable and profitable business, free from any relationship that could interfere ensuring it continues to operate within the with the exercise of their independent the role serves as an important check and balance in Hays governance process.
All of Hays directors are believed has established a core set of values, which it to act in the best interests of the Company.
In the fulfilment of his role Paul ensures he maintains a thorough understanding adheres to and promotes throughout the Group.
These values, which underpin our of the views of the Companys shareholders.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE skills, behaviours and way of doing business, The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are being ambitious, being passionate about are separate, with a clear division of Key roles and responsibilities of these people, being expert at what we do and positions, and that of the Company Secretary, responsibilities between them which is set out being inquisitive about the world of work.
in writing: the responsibility for this separation are provided overleaf.
These values have helped to engender the of duties rests formally with the Board.
entrepreneurial culture within Hays, which has been critical to our continued success As Chairman, Alan Thomson presides over without promoting excessive risk-taking.
the Board and is responsible for its leadership and overall effectiveness.
In doing so, he ROLE OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS fosters and helps to maintain an effective Hays non-executive directors have a broad working relationship between the executive and complementary mix of business skills, and non-executive directors.
knowledge and experience acquired across sectors and geographies.
This allows them As Chief Executive, Alistair Cox has to provide strong, independent and external responsibility for the day-to-day perspectives to Board discussions, which management of the Companys business complement the skills and experience of the and the implementation and delivery executive directors.
In turn, this leads to a of the Board strategy.
diversity of views being aired at Board meetings, robust and constructive debate This separation of roles enhances the and optimal decision-making.
At the same independent oversight of executive time, it also reduces the likelihood of any management by the Board and more one perspective prevailing unduly.
closely aligns the Board with shareholders.
It also means that no one individual within A key role performed by the non-executive the Company has unfettered powers of directors is the scrutiny of executive decision-making.
management in meeting agreed objectives and monitoring the reporting of performance.
They also ensure that financial controls and systems of risk management are both rigorous and appropriate for the needs of the business.
DIRECTORS TENURE AS AT 30 JUNE 2015 Alan Thomson 4 yrs 9 mths Alistair Cox 7 yrs 10 mths Paul Venables 9 yrs 2 mths Paul Harrison 8 yrs 2 mths Victoria Jarman 3 yrs 9 mths Torsten Kreindl 2 yrs 1 mth Richard Smelt 7 yrs 7 mths Pippa Wicks 3 yrs 6 mths 4 mths Peter Williams Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|47 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Key roles and responsibilities CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE SENIOR INDEPENDENT COMPANY SECRETARY & ALAN THOMSON ALISTAIR COX DIRECTOR GENERAL COUNSEL Leadership and the effective Day-to-day management of PAUL HARRISON DOUG EVANS operation of the Board the Groups business Acting as a sounding board Acting as Secretary to the for the Chairman Board, its Committees and Chairing the Board and Formulating strategic business the Management Board Nomination Committee objectives for Board approval Serving as an alternative and implementing approved contact and intermediary Providing legal and Setting the agenda, style and strategic objectives and for other directors and governance support to the tone of Board discussions policies shareholders Board as a whole and directors including promoting openness, individually debate and effective individual Managing and optimising the Leading the Chairmans annual contribution operational and financial performance appraisal and Ensuring that the Group performance of the business ultimate succession complies with all relevant legal, Ensuring that all directors in conjunction with the Group regulatory and governance receive clear and accurate Finance Director requirements information on a timely basis Fostering a good working Ensuring the effectiveness of relationship with the Chairman the Board through induction, ongoing training and regular Chairing the Management evaluations Board and developing senior talent within the business for Effective communications with succession planning shareholders BOARD EFFECTIVENESS BOARD COMMITMENT INFORMATION AND SUPPORT MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD The Board has established a policy permitting The Board meets regularly throughout A schedule of formal matters reserved for the its executive directors to hold only one the year and agrees a forward calendar Boards decision and approval is available on external non-executive directorship, subject of matters that it wishes to discuss at our website, haysplc.
These largely relate to any possible conflict of interest.
Standing items, including to matters of governance and business where ensures that executive directors retain operational, functional and financial reviews independence from executive management sufficient time for and focus on the and Committee updates are considered is important, and include the following: Companys business, whilst allowing them to at each scheduled Board meeting, with gain external board exposure as part of their unplanned items such as commercial or leadership development.
Executive directors property-related decisions being considered Approving financial results and other are permitted to retain any fees paid for such as and when required.
The Chairman, in financial, corporate and governance services.
Details of fees received by each of conjunction with the Chief Executive and matters: the executive directors for the year ended Company Secretary, plans the agenda for Approving material contracts: 31 March 2015 the year-end date of the each Board meeting and ensures that Approving Group strategy: relevant companies are shown below: supporting papers are clear, accurate, timely and of sufficient quality to enable the Board Approving appointments to the Board: to discharge its duties.
External Approving and recommending dividends Director Fee appointment as appropriate and deciding dividend All Board directors have access to the policy: Alistair Cox 80,000 3i Group plc Company Secretary, who advises them on Board and governance matters.
As well as Reviewing material litigation: Paul Venables 53,000 Wincanton plc the support of the Company Secretary, there Approving major capital projects, is a procedure in place for any director to acquisitions and disposals: While the Company does not have a similar take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of Reviewing annually the effectiveness policy for non-executive directors, their key external commitments are reviewed each their duties, where considered necessary.
of internal control and the nature and extent of significant risks identified by year to ensure that they too have sufficient time commitment for the fulfilment of their management and associated mitigation strategies: and Board responsibilities.
Key external commitments of the Board are included Approving the annual budget.
within their biographies on pages 44 and 45.
No changes to the schedule of matters were The Board considered the commitments of made during the year.
Board decisions are the Chairman and is satisfied that he has usually by consensus at Board meetings.
sufficient time to devote to his Board On occasion, decisions may be taken by a responsibilities with Hays.
It was noted Alan majority of Board members.
In the case of an Thomson stepped down during the year as a equality of votes, Hays Articles of Association non-executive director of HSBC Bank plc in provide the Chairman with a second or October 2014 and as Chairman of Polypipe casting vote.
48|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board focus during 2015 What the Board has done in the year DEVELOPING A SUCCESSFUL STRATEGY ENSURING APPROPRIATE FINANCIAL IMPLEMENTING GOVERNANCE AND Attended a Group Strategy away day, with MANAGEMENT ETHICS AND MONITORING RISK members of the Management Board and Received and considered regular reports Performed the annual review of the other senior executives, to consider key on the Groups financial performance effectiveness of internal control and strategic priorities and challenges faced the nature and extent of risks identified Approved financial announcements across the business together with mitigation plans for publication Approved the Group strategy and Reviewed regular reports on legal and Approved the annual budget reviewed associated performance compliance matters from the Company Approved dividend policy, payments Secretary Visited operations in Germany and the and recommendations as appropriate, UK, receiving presentations from senior Received formal training updates on including consideration of a special management on business performance, corporate reporting, legal and regulatory dividend the state of the market, strategy and matters Reviewed and approved the Groups opportunities Reviewed Board and Committee refinancing of its new revolving credit Reviewed strategy plans and received effectiveness facility reports on the operational performance Reviewed and approved changes to the Met with the Companys financial advisers for the Groups regions terms of reference of the Remuneration and corporate brokers Reviewed and approved the acquisition Committee Considered ad hoc property and financeof Veredus Corp. in the US Reviewed the Directors Conflicts related transactions Received reports on technology and of Interest procedures innovation and related industry Reviewed the Companys compliance with developments the Code Reviewed Group risk MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES ENGAGING WITH INVESTORS BUILDING STRONG LEADERS Considered the results from TALKback, the Received regular updates on views Considered the tools employed in the Groups employee engagement survey and feedback from investors leadership and development strategy Considered and approved invitations Considered the Companys investor Reviewed the Groups succession plans under the Companys all-employee relations strategy and assessed risks and options share plans BOARD ATTENDANCE The Board met a total of seven times during the year.
In addition, the Board attended an annual Strategy Review meeting with the Management Board being present.
Six Board meetings were held in the UK and one in Mannheim, Germany.
One ad hoc Board meeting was held during the year.
Board and Committee attendance for scheduled meetings during the year are shown below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board and Committee attendance Board Committee Committee Committee Alan Thomson 7 of 7 2 of 2 Alistair Cox 7 of 7 1 Paul Venables 6 of 7 Paul Harrison 7 of 7 4 of 4 1 of 2 3 of 3 Victoria Jarman 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 3 of 3 Torsten Kreindl 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 3 of 3 Richard Smelt 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 3 of 3 2 Pippa Wicks 6 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 3 of 3 3 Peter Williams 2 of 2 1 of 1 0 of 0 1 of 1 4 William Eccleshare 4 of 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 2 of 2 1 Unable to attend one Board meeting due to serious family illness.
2 Unable to attend ad hoc Board meeting due to prior commitment.
3 Appointed to the Board on 24 February 2015.
4 Retired from the Board on 12 November 2014.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|49 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED BOARD INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT The questionnaire covered a broad relevant decision: in taking such a decision On appointment, each director takes part base of subject matter in order to assess the directors must act in a way they consider, in a tailored and comprehensive induction effectiveness, such as the conduct of Board in good faith, will be most likely to promote programme which is designed to give him or meetings and their administration: risk: the success of the Company and may impose her a deep understanding of the Companys strategy: Board composition and member such limits or conditions as they think fit.
The business, governance and stakeholders.
performance: and the broader challenges Board has reviewed the procedures in place Elements of the programme include: faced by the Board and how those are and considers that they continue to operate managed.
There were no actual or potential also assessed separately.
Results were conflicts of interest which were required to Senior management briefings to provide presented to the Board and areas for a business overview, current trading be authorised by the Board during the year improved operation identified and agreed.
under review or to the date of this report.
conditions and strategic commercial issues: Meetings with the Companys key advisers There was general agreement that, overall, RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS and major shareholders, where necessary: the Board and its Committees continued to ENGAGEMENT WITH INVESTORS operate effectively throughout the period and Responsibility for shareholder relations rests Business site visits across regions: that its operation had improved since the last with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group A legal and regulatory briefing on the review.
Board members experience remains a Finance Director.
They ensure that there is duties of directors of listed companies: key strength, notwithstanding that it could be effective communication with shareholders bolstered further with additional member s on matters such as governance and strategy, Details of the Group corporate structure, with relevant experience: the number of and are responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee structures and Board meetings was considered to be Board understands the views of major arrangements, and key policies and appropriate, and acknowledgement was shareholders on such matters.
procedures: and made of the improvement to the scheduling The latest statutory financial reports of meetings over the year.
It was noted that The Companys investor relations programme and management accounts.
the benefit of closer time management in is supported by a designated Investor Board meetings was evident but that the Relations team which acts as the primary The Chairman, in conjunction with the interaction with regional management teams point of contact with the investor community Company Secretary, ensures that directors could be enhanced.
and is responsible for managing ongoing are provided with updates on changes in the relations with investors and shareholders.
legal and regulatory environment in which the In accordance with the Code, an externally The Board receives regular reports from Company operates.
These are incorporated facilitated Board evaluation will be conducted the Investor Relations team.
Feedback into the annual agenda of the Boards in 2016. from meetings held between executive activities along with wider business and management, or the Investor Relations team, industry updates: the Chairman also keeps The Senior Independent Director led a and institutional shareholders is also reported under review the individual training needs of to the Board.
separate appraisal of the Chairmans Board members.
The Companys principal performance with his fellow non-executive external advisers provide updates to the directors, which took into consideration As a part of a comprehensive investor Board, at least annually, on the latest both the executive and non-executive relations programme, formal meetings are developments in their respective fields, and directors views.
scheduled with investors and analysts to relevant update sessions are included in the discuss the Groups interim and final results.
The Company In the intervening periods, Hays continues Good progress against the action points Secretary presents corporate governance identified in the 2014 Board evaluation has its dialogue with the investor community reports to the Board as appropriate, together by meeting key investor representatives, been made during the year.
These included with any relevant technical directives issued risk, succession planning and communication holding investor roadshows and participating by the Companys auditor.
In this way, each in conferences.
Meetings with debt providers, between the executive and non-executive director keeps their skills and knowledge elements of the Board.
principally the Companys banks, also take current so they remain competent in fulfilling place on a regular basis.
During the year, their role both on the Board and on any the executive directors and senior CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Committee of which they are a member.
management met with almost two hundred Procedures are in place for the disclosure by institutions around the world, interacting directors of any interest that conflicts, or BOARD EVALUATION with shareholders and potential shareholders.
possibly may conflict, with the Companys During the 2015 financial year the Board Presentations to analysts are posted on the interests and for the appropriate authorisation assessed its own effectiveness through an Companys website at haysplc.
com and to be sought if a conflict arises, in accordance internal Board evaluation process.
The 2015 if you would like to know more about with the Companys Articles of Association.
evaluation was facilitated by the Chairman.
our relations with shareholders please In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or All directors completed an evaluation contact ir@hays.
potential conflict of interest only those questionnaire, followed up with one-to-one directors that have no interest in the matter meetings with the Chairman as appropriate.
under consideration will be able to take the Continental Individual investors met in FY15 United Kingdom Europe North America Total Alistair Cox 55 32 29 116 Paul Venables 97 15 22 134 Investor Relations team 110 41 48 199 Other senior management 9 3 0 12 50|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION As a reflection of the success of Hays investor ACCOUNTABILITY The Board reviews the Group strategy relations efforts, Hays was ranked No.
3 in the RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL and approves a budget for the organisation 2015 Extel Survey for best investor relations CONTROL each year, to ensure that the performance by a listed company in the European Support The Board has overall responsibility for the of the business is in line with the plan and & Business Services category, and also top Groups internal control systems and for financial and operating reporting procedures three in the equivalent Institutional Investor reviewing their effectiveness.
This has been are in place.
In addition, Paul Venables and David designed to assist the Board in making better, and forecasts are approved by the Management Walker were also ranked in the top three more risk-informed, strategic decisions with Board and business divisions.
Monthly of their respective categories of best Chief a view to creating and protecting shareholder progress and variances are reported to Financial Officer and best IR Professional value.
In practice, the Board delegates the the Management Board and subsequently in the 2015 Extel Survey, and David Walker, task of implementing its policy on risk and to the Board at each meeting as part of the Hays Head of Investor Relations, was ranked control to management.
Further support and control process.
1 as best investor relations professional assistance is provided by an independent in the 2015 Institutional Investor Survey, as Internal Audit function, details of which are Complementing these financial controls is voted by sell-side research analysts.
provided in the Audit Committee Report.
a set of Group-wide policies and procedures addressing non-quantifiable risks.
These ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Management Board oversees an include the Groups Code of Conduct and The Board uses the Companys AGM to enterprise risk management system Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, communicate with investors and welcomes which allows for a holistic, top-down and and whistleblowing arrangements.
All shareholders are bottom-up view of key risks facing the Board regularly receives management and entitled to attend the AGM, at which the business.
These are recorded in a Group risk Committee reports which also form part Board members are present.
The Board views register, which is reviewed at least annually of the internal control system.
the AGM as a good opportunity to meet with by the Management Board and submitted to the Board thereafter to enable it to carry out its smaller, private shareholders.
A summary The Groups internal control procedures are presentation of results is given by the Chief its risk oversight responsibility.
This exercise subject to regular review and provide an involves a current and forward look at various Executive before the formal business of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating meeting is conducted.
All shareholders risks affecting the business and prioritising and managing significant risks.
This is in them according to risk magnitude and present can question the Chairman, the accordance with the Revised Turnbull Chairmen of the Committees and the rest likelihood.
Risks covered include operational, Guidance on Internal Control.
The Board business and compliance risks as well as of the Board both during the meeting and recognises that such a system has its informally afterwards.
Each risk is assigned an owner limitations in that risk management requires with current and future risk mitigation independent judgment on the part of procedures detailed, with the continuing The Notice of AGM and related papers are directors and executive management.
Internal monitoring of these undertaken on an sent to shareholders at least 20 working days controls are designed to manage rather than ongoing basis.
The principal risks currently before the meeting.
Voting on all resolutions eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business facing the business are detailed in the at the AGM is by means of a poll, which, objectives, and can provide only reasonable Strategic Report.
reflecting the number of voting rights and not absolute assurance against material exercisable by each member, is considered by misstatement or loss.
the Board to be a more democratic method of In order to enhance the risk management process a Group Risk Committee was voting.
As soon as practicable following the In accordance with its regulatory obligations, conclusion of the AGM, the proxy votes cast, established in the financial year in order to the Board, with the assistance of the Audit assist the Management Board in providing including details of votes withheld, are Committee, carried out an annual assessment announced to the London Stock Exchange via strategic leadership, direction, reporting of the effectiveness of the Groups risk and oversight of the Groups risk framework.
the Regulatory News Service and published management and internal control system on our website.
The Committee is chaired by the Group during the reporting period.
During the Finance Director and membership includes course of its review, the Board did not identify representation across the global network or hear of any failings or weaknesses that and comprises both operational and finance it determined to be significant.
Meetings are held three times a of any necessary actions is therefore year, with activities and recommendations not provided.
reported to the Management Board.
The Hays plc Board also has oversight of the Committee and its activities.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|51
