GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee has supported the Board in ensuring the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control, shareholders are in turn able to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Monitor the relationship with the I am pleased to present to you the Audit The Committees terms of reference Companys external Auditor, including Committee report prepared in accordance are available on the Companys website consideration of fees, audit scope and with the 2012 edition of the Code.
terms of engagement: Committee has considered the additional requirements of the revised UK Corporate Review the effectiveness and objectivity The key responsibilities of the Committee Governance Code introduced in September of the external audit and the Auditors are to: 2014 and has ensured the necessary steps are independence: under way in order that we can properly report On engagement of the external Auditor, Monitor the integrity of the financial to you against those next year and beyond.
review the policy for the provision of statements of the Company, including non-audit services and monitor annual and half year reports, interim The Committee has continued to ensure compliance: management statements, and other the Companys enterprise risk management formal announcements relating to its Monitor and review the Companys framework remains fit for purpose.
The financial performance, and reviewing internal control and risk management Committee provides oversight of the risk and reporting to the Board on significant systems: process and continues to be satisfied that financial reporting issues and judgments: the Board maintains sound risk management Monitor and review the effectiveness of and internal controls: the establishment of Where requested by the Board, review the Companys Internal Audit function: the Group Risk Committee is a welcome the content of the Annual Report and development in that regard.
The Board has and advise the Board whether, taken Ensure compliance with laws, regulations, again been supported by the Committee in as a whole, it is fair, balanced and ethical and other issues, including ensuring the Annual Report is fair, balanced understandable and provides the that the Company maintains suitable and understandable.
The Committee reviews information necessary for shareholders arrangements for employees to raise the full and half year results with both to assess the Companys performance, concerns in confidence.
management and the external auditor and business model and strategy: reviews the work of Internal Audit and other Recommend to the Board for approval assurance providers, thereby ensuring the by shareholders, the appointment, integrity of the Groups financial statements reappointment or removal of the and the effectiveness of internal control.
This external Auditor: in turn enables the Committee to provide shareholders with the necessary information for them to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In addition to discharging its financial reporting, internal control and risk management responsibilities, during the course of the year the Committee also considered, amongst other matters, audit effectiveness both internal and external and technological developments affecting the Group.
Further detail on the Committees activities during the year under review is provided below.
VICTORIA JARMAN AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 27 August 2015 54|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS ANNUAL REPORT REVIEW MAIN COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING The Committee is appointed by the Board In addition to its work described here, the THE FINANCIALYEAR from its independent non-executive directors.
Committee has reviewed the financial and Approved the annual Committee Biographies of the Committees current narrative disclosures in this years Annual programme members are set out on pages 44 and 45.
It has advised the Board that, in its view, taken as a whole, the Annual Report Reviewed financial results for publication is fair, balanced and understandable and The Chairman of the Committee and its provides the information necessary for financial expert, Victoria Jarman, is a Considered the external audit plan shareholders to assess the Groups Chartered Accountant, who also chairs the and reviewed the results of the audit performance, business model and strategy.
Audit Committee of fide La Rue plc and of Approved the Internal Audit plan Equiniti Group Limited.
All Committee and reviewed its findings members are financially literate.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE In making its recommendation to the Board Reviewed the new requirements that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, The Committee discharges its responsibilities relating to external auditor appointments is fair, balanced and understandable, the through a series of scheduled meetings and audit partner rotation Committee enhanced its existing robust during the year, the agenda of which is linked Reviewed the non-audit services governance arrangements, which include: to events in the financial calendar of the provided by the external Auditor Company.
The Committee met four times during the financial year and all members Comprehensive Group and subsidiary Reviewed the risk management and were in attendance at all meetings during accounts process, with written controls framework and its effectiveness, their tenure.
confirmations provided by the regional together with the Groups principal risks senior management teams on the health Reviewed the performance and of the financial control environment: The Committee commissions reports, either effectiveness of the external Auditor from external advisers, the Head of Internal and considered its reappointment Reviews of the Annual Report undertaken Audit, or Group management, as required, at different levels of the Group and by the Reviewed the performance and to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Group senior management team that aim to effectiveness of the Internal Audit Finance Director and the Group Financial ensure consistency and overall balance: function Controller attend its meetings, as do the External audit review: external Auditor and the Head of Internal Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing Audit, both of whom have the opportunity to arrangements Clear guidance and instruction of the meet privately with the Committee Chairman, requirement provided to contributors: Carried out a review of the Committees in the absence of Group management.
Written confirmation that information effectiveness and reviewed progress The Chairman of the Board and the Chief provided has been done so on a fair on matters arising from previous Executive are also invited to, and regularly and balanced basis: assessments attend, Committee meetings.
Considered the Code requirements Additional scrutiny by senior management: and concerning fair, balanced and understandable reporting Additional reviews by the Committee Recommended the Audit Committee Chairman of the draft Annual Report in advance of the final sign-off in the context Report for approval by the Board of the revised Code provision.
Reviewed senior finance personnel Final sign-off is provided by the Board, on the across the Group recommendation of the Committee.
Held discussions with the external Auditor and the Head of Internal Audit without management being present Committee member Meeting attendance FY15 Victoria Jarman Chairman 4 of 4 1 William Eccleshare 2 of 2 Paul Harrison 4 of 4 Torsten Kreindl 4 of 4 Richard Smelt 4 of 4 Pippa Wicks 4 of 4 2 Peter Williams 1 of 1 1 William Eccleshare retired from the Board on 12 November 2014.
2 Peter Williams was appointed to the Board on 24 February 2015.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|55 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED PENSION ACCOUNTING process will commence in early 2016.
DURING THE YEAR Pension accounting is complex and contains Any recommendation for the appointment In reviewing both the half and full year areas of significant judgment, most notably of the external Auditor will continue to be financial statements, the following issues those in respect of the discount and inflation the subject of rigorous review each year.
of significance were considered by the rates used in the valuation of the net deficit Committee and addressed as described.
The Committee AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE AND These matters are described in more reviewed the pension items, including those NON-AUDIT SERVICES POLICY detail in note 3 to the Consolidated relating to the adoption of IAS 19 Employee The Committee believes that the issue of Financial Statements.
Benefits Revised, by discussing a report non-audit services to Hays is closely related prepared by management based on work to external Auditor independence and performed by the Companys actuary DEBTOR AND ACCRUED INCOME objectivity.
The Committee recognises which set the key assumptions used in RECOVERABILITY that the independence of the external the calculation of the deficit and related The recoverability of trade debtors, accrued Auditor may reasonably be expected to income statement items.
The Committee income and the level of provisions for bad be compromised if they also act as the also considered the work performed by debt are considered to be areas of significant Companys consultants and advisers.
Having judgment due to the pervasive nature of Deloittes specialist pension team in testing said that, the Committee accepts that certain the assumptions and was satisfied that the these balances to the financial statements work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken and the importance of cash collection in the assumptions used and the disclosures in by the external Auditor.
To keep a check on the financial statements are appropriate.
working capital management of the business.
this, the Committee has adopted a policy to The Committee considered the level and ensure that the provision of any non-audit ageing of debtors and accrued income, ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING services by Deloitte does not impair its together with the appropriateness of The main areas of judgment following the independence or objectivity.
provisioning, by reviewing previous experience acquisition of 80% of the shareholding of of bad debt exposure and the consistency Veredus Corp. are the assessment of whether The key features of the non-audit services of judgments made year-on-year.
The or not Hays acquired control of Veredus, policy are as follows: Committee was satisfied that the level of considering the specific requirements of provision and the carrying value of debtors IFRS 10 including the application of the The provision of non-audit services and accrued income is appropriate.
substance principle: the fair value of deferred provided by the Companys external consideration consequently recognised: and Auditor be limited to a value of one times REVENUE RECOGNITION the assessment of the fair value of the assets the prior years audit fee: acquired.
The Committee reviewed and The main areas of judgment in revenue Any non-audit project work which could recognition relate to i cut-off as we discussed a detailed report prepared by impair the objectivity or independence of management setting out the basis for recognise permanent placement income the external Auditor may not be awarded on the day a candidate starts work, and the key assumptions adopted, and also to the external Auditor: and considered the work performed by Deloitte temporary placement income over the duration of the placement: and ii the which included reviewing the terms of the Delegated authority by the Committee for acquisition agreement, and the findings recognition of temporary contractual the approval of non-audit services by the arrangements where we act as principal from the local US audit.
The Committee external Auditor is as follows: is satisfied that the acquisition has been on a gross basis rather than net basis.
The Committee discussed and reviewed these appropriately accounted for and that the Value of services per judgments made are appropriate.
areas with both management and the Auditor Authoriser non-audit project and remains satisfied that Group accounting Group Financial policies with regard to revenue recognition EXTERNAL AUDITOR Controller Up to 25,000 have been adhered to and that judgments Both the Committee and the Board keep made remain appropriate.
the external Auditors independence and Group Finance Director Up to 150,000 objectivity under close scrutiny, particularly Audit Committee Above 150,000 in regard to its reporting to shareholders.
GOODWILL The Committee assessed the carrying Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor of the Group since listing in October 1989. value of goodwill by reviewing a report Deloittes fee in respect of its 2014 by management which set out the values Professional rules require that the Companys financial year audit of Hays was 0.9 million.
audit partner at Deloitte be rotated every attributable to each cash-generating unit, Accordingly, the maximum value of non-audit compiled using projected cash flows based five years: the current lead partner, Stephen services that Deloitte could have been Griggs, was appointed following the 2011 on assumptions related to discount rates and engaged by Hays to provide during the future growth rates.
The Committee also year-end results.
The total considered the work undertaken by Deloitte audit fee for non-audit services provided by in testing the projections and performing As noted previously, the Committee resolved Deloitte during the 2015 financial year was sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
to undertake a full tender of the Companys 0.4 million 2014: 0.3 million.
The main After discussion, the Committee was satisfied external audit contract following the 2016 components of the 0.4 million non-audit that the assumptions used were appropriate.
year-end results, when the tenure of the services were as follows: current audit partner at Deloitte comes to an end.
The Committee has further reviewed this position following the publication of the new EU regulations and decided that a tender 56|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Half year review: 0.1 million: The Committee considered the Groups risk RAISING CONCERNS AT WORK assessment process, which included coverage The whistleblowing procedure in place across Taxation compliance: 0.1 million: and across the regions, businesses and functions the Group ensures that employees are able Tax advice and other services: 0.2 million.
within the Group, reviewing the effectiveness to raise any concerns about any possible of the risk methodology employed, the risk improprieties in business practices, or other No single non-audit project undertaken mitigation measures implemented and future matters, in confidence: this is managed and by Deloitte during the 2015 financial year risk management and monitoring.
reported through an external third party.
The Company did not pay any non-audit fees to Deloitte on a INTERNAL AUDIT The disclosures under this arrangement contingent basis.
A summary of the fees paid The Committee oversees and monitors the are investigated promptly by Internal Audit to the external Auditor is set out in note 6 work of the Internal Audit function, which and escalated to the Management Board to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
reviews key controls and processes and the Committee as appropriate, with throughout the Group on a rolling basis, follow-up action being taken as soon as Having reviewed Hays non-audit services including resources, scope and effectiveness practicable thereafter.
policy this year, the Committee is satisfied of the function.
that adequate procedures are in place to The Committee, as part of its overall review safeguard the external Auditors objectivity The Group Head of Internal Audit has direct of the Groups system of internal control, and independence.
access to the Committee, and meets regularly reviewed the procedures in place during the with both the Committee and its Chairman reporting period and is satisfied that they are EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL without the presence of management to appropriate to the size and scale of the Group.
AUDITOR consider the work of Internal Audit.
The annual effectiveness review was ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION conducted under the guidance of the The Committee approved the programme of Hays has a zero-tolerance approach to Committee Chairman, on behalf of the work for the Internal Audit function in respect bribery and corruption.
The Group AntiCommittee, and covered amongst other of the 2015 financial year, which was focused Bribery and Corruption Policy with specific things a review of the audit partners, audit on addressing both financial and overall risk reference to the UK Bribery Act 2010 is resource, planning and execution, Committee management objectives across the Group.
Overall responsibility support and communications, and Deloittes During the year, 35 internal audit reviews for, and oversight of, the Policy lies with independence and objectivity.
Overall were undertaken, with the findings reported the plc Board.
Training is provided to all feedback was positive with resulting to both the Management Board and the employees annually in local languages and improvements, which were largely countryCommittee, with recommendations tracked ongoing support is provided when and where specific, discussed and implemented.
On and progress subsequently reported back necessary.
In addition, risk assessments are the basis of this review, the Committee was to the Committee.
carried out on an ad hoc basis, for example satisfied with the performance of Deloitte in when new countries are under consideration the fulfilment of its obligations as external whether they are considered to be low or No significant weaknesses were identified Auditor and of the effectiveness of the audit high risk or prior to entry into new public as a result of risk management and internal process.
Accordingly, the Committee has sector markets.
The Committee reviewed the control reviews undertaken by Internal Audit recommended to the Board that Deloitte be effectiveness of the Policy during the year during the reporting period.
reappointed as external Auditor to the Group.
and concluded that it was sufficient for managing the anti-bribery and corruption The Committee believes that the Groups RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL risks faced by the Group.
enterprise risk management framework CONTROL needs to continue to evolve in accordance The Board is responsible for the adequacy AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS with the growth of the Hays business around and effectiveness of the Groups internal The Committee considered its effectiveness the world.
Throughout the financial year the control system and risk management in discharging its duties during the year.
The Internal Audit team has continued to enhance framework, which in order to fulfil its Committee looked at the work it had carried the enterprise risk management framework responsibilities the Board has delegated out during the year and considered that its and work with the operating companies authority to the Committee.
performance during the year was effective across the globe to further develop and when measured against its terms of reference embed the framework methodology at In order to establish an assessment from and general audit committee best practice.
The formation of a Group Risk both a financial and operational control Details of the main activities of the Committee Committee chaired by the Group Finance perspective, the Committee looks to and its role and responsibilities have been Director and comprising senior operators the work of the Internal Audit function, detailed earlier in this Report.
from each region will assist in the strategic specifically to consider whether significant management of risk in the Group.
process and control weaknesses are The Chairman of the Committee will be identified, improved and monitored available at this years AGM to answer any and that risks have been identified, questions on the work of the Committee.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|57
