HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee reports: Nomination Letter from the Chair Diversity and balance across the Board We have found the right people who broaden the experience of the Board and fit very well with the existing team.
Our succession arrangements include rotation of the Dear Shareholder Committee Chairs.
During the year the handover of the The Committee has been active during the year as we Audit Committee responsibilities from Breffni Byrne to have continued to review, adjust and implement our Pat Butler was successfully completed.
We also began the medium-term Board succession plan.
The plan provides process of handing over the Remuneration Committee for the gradual rotation of Independent Non-Executive Chair from Michael Ashton to Dr Pamela Kirby, which Directors.
We are mindful of the risks of changing too we aim to complete during the course of 2016. much too quickly and of the danger of losing valuable Company and market-specific knowledge.
As we bring Having reviewed the responsibilities of the Board new Directors onboard, we will ensure that they are fully Committees during the year and with this Committee inducted into the Company and their roles in advance already having significant governance responsibilities, of the retirement of the Director they are replacing.
we considered it was appropriate for the Committee We are also aware of the potential independence issues to assume complete responsibility for governance.
This of extended service and I confirm that no Independent includes the annual governance review process as well Director will serve in excess of 12 years.
Consistent with as considering the overall structure and controls on the this aim, Breffni Byrne will stand down at the close of Board.
We have reviewed non-executive independence, the AGM.
the role of the Chairman and Chief Executive and the balance of responsibilities and control.
The relationship During the year we undertook a search for an between myself, as Senior Independent, and Said Independent Non-Executive Director with US Darwazah, as Chairman, is very strong: we meet pharmaceutical and regulatory experience and regularly, listen to each others views and work we were very pleased that we were able to appoint together closely to achieve joint aims.
Additionally, as part of our acquisition of Roxane, Boehringher Ingelheim nominated As the Senior Independent Director, I am open at any Jochen Gann to the Board and we fully supported their time to discussion with shareholders.
In respect of both appointments, we have found the right people who broaden the experience of the Board and fit well with the existing team.
Robert Pickering Chair of the Nomination Committee 90 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2015 Overview 2015 Highlights Membership and attendance Undertook a non-executive search process The Nomination Committee consists of four leading to the appointment of John Castellani Directors.
Three are Independent Non-Executive Directors: Robert Pickering, who is the Committee Considered Boehringer Ingelheims proposal for Chair, Michael Ashton and Pat Butler.
The fourth a Non-Executive Director leading to the is Mazen Darwazah, the Executive Vice Chairman.
appointment of Jochen Gann The Committee metseven times during the year.
Further developed our medium-term Full attendance was achieved.
succession plan Member Meeting Successful transition of the Audit Committee Members since Attended Potential attendance chairmanship Robert Pickering Initiated a transition process for the Chair 1 Sep 2011 7 7 100% Remuneration Committee Chair Michael Ashton 14 Oct 2005 7 7 100% Pat Butler 1 Apr 2014 7 7 100% Assumed full responsibility for Board governance Mazen Darwazah 14 Oct 2005 7 7 100% Reviewed the composition, diversity and balance Total meetings 7 100% of skills on the Board Allocation of time Calendar of events Diversity 27% Skills and 14% Q1 Q2 experience Independence Management Succession 27% succession Report to shareholders Independence 10% Committee evaluation Board evaluation Director search Corporate 22% governance Advisers Q3 Q4 Internal External Chairman and Chief Spencer Stuart Board structure review Board evaluation Executive Odgers Berndtson NED appointments Nominated VP Human Resources Lintstock Director review Director search Company Secretary Director search Training 91 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee reports: Nomination Continued interest procedures, which have operated effectively Responsibilities during the year.
The Nomination Committee terms of The Nomination Committee is responsible for corporate reference include all matters indicated by the corporate governance and succession planning, including the governance principles and clearly set out its authority and progressive refreshing of the Board and ensuring that duties.
The Committees terms of reference are approved all appointments to the Board are made on objective and reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
The terms criteria and that candidates have sufficient time to devote of reference are published on the Hikma website and to their prospective responsibilities.
It is also charged with are available for inspection at the registered office at reviewing the appropriateness of the size, structure and 13 Hanover Square, London, W1S 1HW or by composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committee contacting cosec@hikma.
also operates, monitors and reviews the conflicts of Hikma culture.
Women at Hikma have leveraged their Diversity broad capabilities and strong leadership skills to help Within Hikma drive Hikmas growth.
Together we must take the right Hikma is committed to employing and engaging steps to ensure that women at Hikma have even more the best people, irrespective of background, gender, input into current and future projects and encourage orientation, race, age or disability.
Hikma has always them to take on more responsibilities.
operated a discrimination-free working environment and is committed to gender diversity at all levels At the Board and in all areas of its business.
We consider that The Committee considered Board diversity at our diversity continues to be demonstrated by the several stages through the year and is committed broad range of people in our organisation.
Hikma has to further enhance gender diversity as part of its a long history of a significant number of women being medium-term plans.
Since the listing of Hikma the present in executive management positions, a number Board has excellent diversity in terms of culture, age, of whom have worked for the Company for the background, skills and experience.
The Committee majority of their careers see pages 72to 73 for the was pleased to be able to improve gender diversity Executive Committee membership.
This is illustrated during 2014 but recognises that the current level of in the charts accompanying this page.
female representation is not sufficient for a leading international organisation.
The Committee requires The Chief Executives letter to staff for 2015 the external search consultants to actively seek female stated that one of the two strategic priorities is candidates and to ensurethat a significant proportion the Advancement of women across the Group.
of long and shortlisted candidates are female.
The letter stated that Supporting women to achieve their professional goals is an integral part of the Board Executive Committee Hikma Group Men 91% Men 78% Men 68% Women 9% Women 22% Women 32% 92 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A second round of meetings was undertaken with the Succession Chairman and Chief Executive and the Vice Chairman Planning Following a full induction process and John Castellani As in previous years, the Committee continued its confirming his desire to join the Board, the Committee work on planning for executive and non-executive recommended the appointment of John Castellani to succession.
The Committee reviewed and updated the Board its medium-term succession plan which allows for the gradual rotation of independent non-executives, to allow The appointment of John Castellani followed the for a full induction and the transfer of knowledge and established and tested Hikma process, which is relationships.
Independent Non-Executive Directors are summarised above.
Spencer Stuart, the search normally expected to serve for up tonine years.
They adviser, did not and does not have any further may be invited to serve for longer, but additional connection with the Company.
service beyond nine years is subject to particularly rigorous review and the Committee has resolved that Board review no Independent Non-Executive Director would serve Skills and experience in excess of 12 years.
Additionally, the medium-term The broad range of skills and experience of Board plan allows for the orderly transition of Committee members has greatly assisted in the success of Hikma.
chairmanship roles, allowing time to ensure parties on the Board and within management are best placed In view of the current succession plans, the Nomination Committee undertakes an in-depth analysis of each role for the change.
The Committee will implement the on the Board before considering new candidates.
The changes necessary to ensure that the plan is met over Committee aims to preserve the Boards very broad a two to four year timeframe and will keep shareholders spread of experience, which provides the necessary updated as decisions are made.
In terms of the process for identifying candidates, the Committee has the checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the Group.
While each Director possesses different skills, necessary authority to advance the search process to the Committee believes that all Directors at Hikma share the extent that a shortlist of candidates or a candidate the following important characteristics: is proposed to the Board.
Challenging yet consensual style The Board decided to look further ahead in relation to independent non-executive succession, and asked the Independence of mind and clarity of thought Nomination Committee to undertake the process to Significant experience at an executive identify a candidate to join the Board as an additional management level Independent Non-Executive Director.
At the request of International business exposure the Chairman, the Committee undertook a thorough recruitment process, which can be summarised as follows: Additionally, the Committee considers that across the Board as a whole and on the executive and non-executive The Senior Independent Director, in consultation with teams it is important to ensure at least two members the Board Chairman and with the assistance of the have significant experience in the following areas: Company Secretary, established a role and experience profile for the position of non-executive director Middle East and North Africa, particularly the business and political environment A draft profile and the key characteristics and experience required were discussed by the US pharmaceutical and regulatory environment Nomination Committee Pharmaceutical manufacturing, quality and Following an assessment of the executive search sales processes market, Spencer Stuart was appointed to identify Business ethics and business integrity programmes candidates who met the role profile Strategy and risk management An extensive list of candidates was identified UK and international listed environment bySpencer Stuartand a shortlist was created through discussions with the Senior Independent Director Human resources and remuneration governance The Senior Independent Director and another For further information on the diverse skills and Committee member met the shortlisted candidates, experience of our current Directors, please see the results of which were discussed by the Nomination the biographical details on pages 69 to 71.
Committee and recommendations made 93 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee reports: Nomination Continued Chairman and Chief Executive Governance The Committee and the Independent Non-Executive The Committee has undertaken full responsibility for Directors keep under review the position of Chairman and governance mattersfor the Board.
This includes the Chief Executive and the governance safeguards that were annual process of reviewing the procedures in the implemented at the time of the combination of roles in Board Governance Manual, the compliance with the May 2014 a full rationale and process is included in the UK Governance Code, the Group Internal Controls and 2013 Annual Report on pages 63 to 64, a summary considering the governance agenda for the following version is included in this report on pages 74 to 75. year.
The Committee also keeps abreast of governance The Independent Non-Executive Directors met regularly developments throughout the year and makes during the year without management present and adjustments in an orderly manner.
discussed, amongst other issues, the safeguards and functioning of the Board.
The Independent Directors considered that the safeguards are effective and that For and on behalf of the Nomination Committee the combined position continued to be appropriate, chiefly due to the nature of the relationship between the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director and the culture of considered and consensual approach Robert Pickering that is evident throughout Hikma.
The Committee noted Nomination Committee Chair the Independent Directors position and concluded that the combined position continues to be appropriate.
15 March 2016 Re-election Each member of the Board will submit himself or herself for election or re-election as appropriate at the 2016 AGM.
The positions of each Board member were considered in detail during the year as part of the review of succession arrangements, consideration of independence issues, the Board and Committee evaluation processes and the ongoing dialogue between the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
94 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Case study Jochen Gann induction Following the acquisition of Roxane Laboratories, Boehringer Ingelheim BI recommended the appointment of Dr Jochen Gann to the Board.
This is his induction story...
Tailored The induction programme was tailored to Dr Gann.
Jochen has extensive experience in pharmaceutical operations, capital markets, mergers and acquisitions and finance.
However, he had not previously been a director of a UK company or operated in a listed company environment.
Therefore, the induction programme was tailored to these areas.
Briefing In order that a potential director fully understands the duties and responsibilities that are being undertaken, all directors receive an induction briefing in advance of a formal proposal being made to the Board.
Jochens briefing was undertaken by the Company Secretary during a seven hour meeting at the BI facilities in Ingelheim.
All briefing papers were made available in advance and requests for additional information were met immediately afterwards.
Structure The induction briefing was structured into four key areas: Director duties and UK law Listing rules and governance The legalframework of the UK is substantially BI are a very large, but privately owned entity.
different from that of Germany.
Accordingly, the Therefore, the additional obligations contained in concepts around duties of directors and the nature the listing, disclosure and transparency and related of the legal entity legislation and regulation in the rules were explained, particularly in relation to the UK were explained.
UK governance code, inside information, dealing in shares and disclosures to the market.
Class 1 circular Board procedures The Roxane acquisition involved a class 1 circular.
As The internal Board Governance Procedures a potential director being considered as part of the for the operation of the Board, Committees and acquisition, Jochen incurred the same responsibilities administration of Directors were explained, including as the existing directors in the circular.
Accordingly, formalities regarding the appointment process, those responsibilities and the governance and announcements and associated documentation.
verification processes were fully explained.
