HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Continued Governance report Reasons for the decision Explanations under the Code The Board is focused onthe commercial success of Hikma Governance principles and believes that the continuing position of Chairman The Board is committed to the standards of corporate and Chief Executive is the best way to achieve this governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance objective for Hikma because: Code the Code adopted in September 2014 and the Chairmans role: The Chairman position is highly visible Markets Law of the Dubai Financial Services Authority.
inside and outside Hikma, acting as an ambassador The report on pages 62 to 129 describes how the Board with business partners and adviser to the divisions.
has applied the Main Principles of the Code and Markets It is essential the Chairman intimately understands Law throughout the year ended 31 December 2015.
MENA culture and has strong relationships in the The current Code is available at www.
uk region, can speak Arabic and has extensive The Board considers that this Annual Report provides the pharmaceutical knowledge.
information shareholders need to evaluate how we have Business partners: A significant number of the complied with our current obligations under the Code Companys key political and commercial relationships and Markets Law.
across the MENA region are built on the long-term The Board acknowledges that Said Darwazah holding trust and respect for the Darwazah family where the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive and the the role of the Chairman remains key.
continuation of Independent Non-Executive Directors Continuity of success: Said Darwazah has been who have served more than nine years require adriving force behind the operational success of the explanation under the Code.
Hikma is committed to an business since 2007 and the Board believes that it open dialogue regarding these matters.
Questions may is important to the continued success of the Group be directed to and further information may be requested that he remains in the lead executive role.
Otherwise, throughout the Succession: The Board considers that an external year and up until the date of this report, Hikma was Chief Executive appointment is unlikely to be in in full compliance with the Code.
the best interests of the Group given its heritage and management structure.
The Chief Executive is Chairman and Chief Executive position developing the executives below him with a view to The Board is aware that Said Darwazahs position handing responsibilities over in the medium term.
as Chairman and Chief Executive isa departure from the Code, provision A.
The Board fully considered Control enhancements the position and consulted shareholdersin early 2014.
The Board has implemented the following enhancements The disclosure below summarises the Boards rationale.
to controls: The Independent Non-Executive Directors meet twice a Governance structure review: The Independent year to review the Board structure including consideration Directors meet at least bi-annually in a private of whether the combined role continues to be session chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors This meeting includes consideration of the have concluded that the position remains appropriate.
appropriateness of the governance structure and safeguards for shareholders.
Committee Chair roles: The Chairs of the Board Committees, all of whom are Independent NonExecutive Directors, undertake a significant amount of work in the oversight of the functions that report to their Committees and have in-depth relationships with the relevant executives.
74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Transparency and engagement: Hikma has always had The Board reviewed and considered the independence the highest regard for external shareholders.
Many of of the Non-Executive Directors during the year as part the original investorsfrom before listing still invest and of the annual corporate governance review.
It recognises support Hikma today.
Over ten years since flotation that Breffni Byrne, Michael Ashton and Ronald Goode the Company has maintained the highest standards have served in excess of nine years and therefore this of shareholder engagement, which is reflective of constitutes a departure from the Code, provision B.
1.1. the importance placed in maintaining strong investor Breffni Byrne is leaving the Board in May 2016 having relations and governance.
Hikma has won and been successfully handed over his prior responsibilities as shortlisted for several transparency and governance former Chair of the Audit Committee.
The Board wishes awards, particularly over the past five years.
to retain the services of Ronald Goode and Michael Ashton for a time period sufficient to transfer their Expanded Senior Independent role: The Board has responsibilities and knowledge in an orderly manner increased the responsibilities of the Senior Independent whilst ensuring continuity and ongoing challenge.
Director to assume joint responsibility, with the The Board considers this is appropriate because Hikma Chairman and Chief Executive, for setting the Board is a maturing company in which historical knowledge agenda, agreeing action points and the minutes of and personal relationships are important to the the meetings.
successful oversight of the business.
Independence The Board is of the view that Michael Ashton, Breffni The Board considers Robert Pickering, Michael Ashton, Byrne and Ronald Goode remain independent because: Ronald Goode, Breffni Byrne, Pat Butler, Dr Pamela Their character and the manner in which they perform Kirby and John Castellani to be independent.
These their role clearly demonstrate independent thought individuals provide extensive experience of international and judgement.
pharmaceutical, financial, corporate governance and regulatory matters and were not associated with They ask difficult and challenging questions of Hikma prior to the listing of Hikma in 2005. management and request additional information when they feel it is required.
Tenure range None of the Independent Directors receives additional remuneration apart from Directors fees, and they do not participate in the Groups share plans or pension schemes.
There are no conflicts of interest between any Independent Non-Executive Directorsand management or the controlling shareholder.
The Independent Directors do not serve as directors of any subsidiary companies or affiliates of the Group.
The Board does not view Ali Al-Husry as an Independent Director due to the length of his association with the Company, because he was an executive with Hikma prior to listing and because of his involvement with Independent NED Darhold Limited, Hikmas largest shareholder.
Percentage he continues to bring to the Board broad corporate 03 years 3 43% financial experience and a detailed knowledge of the 46 years 1 14% MENA region, which is an important and specialist 79 years 0 0% part of the Groups business.
9 years 3 43% The Board does not view Jochen Gann as an Independent Director because his appointment was made as part of the shareholder agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim, a major shareholder and his primary employer.
However, Jochen brings significant M&A and corporate finance experience with a particular focus on the pharmaceutical sector.
75 e c n a n r e v o G d r a o B HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Continued Governance report Continued Roles The division of Board responsibilities can be summarised as follows: Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has approved separate statements of the Chairman and the Chief Executive responsibilities in writing, which are reviewed annually and include: Chairman: Chief Executive: Being an ambassador for the Group Providing the strategic vision and implementation capability to ensure the Company achieves its Providing an appropriate environment for the Board to full potential scrutinise and challenge the actions of management in a constructive manner Leading the executive team and supporting the business heads in the delivery of the Setting the agenda for the Board, in consultation with divisional strategies the Senior Independent Director Identifying and executing new business opportunities Ensuring that the opinions of Directors and executives inside and outside the current core activities are fully taken into account Ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions Keeping the Senior Independent Director fully informed of all matters of importance to the Group Ensuring that the Board considers all matters that are relevant to it and has appropriate information Roles and responsibilities Senior Group Independent Functions Director CEO Branded Chairman Committee & Chairs Chief Executive CEO Generics & US Global Head Company of Injectables Secretary 76 t n e m e g a n a m e v i t u c e x E CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Vice Chairman Company Secretary When required, the Vice Chairman acts as alternate to The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman the Chairman and Chief Executive and is another point and Chief Executive and supports him and the Senior of contact and sounding board for management and Independent Director in the delivery of their roles, Directors.
The Vice Chairman advances the executive particularly in relation to information flow and setting agenda and supports the Chairman and Chief Executive the Board agenda.
The Company Secretary keeps the in setting and delivering strategy.
The Vice Chairman Board apprised of matters of governance and policy has Board level executive responsibility forHikmas and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
anti-bribery and corruption, business integrity and The Company Secretary also acts as secretary to the ethics and corporate social responsibility programmes.
Board and Committees, supporting the Committee Chairs in the governance aspects of their responsibilities.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary Senior Independent Director is a matter reserved for the Board.
The Senior Independent Director responsibilities include: Together with the Chairman and Chief Executive, Board Committees setting the Board agenda, agreeing actions points The Board has an extensive workload and, therefore, has and the minutes of the meetings delegated the detailed oversight of certain items to four Leading the Board in matters of Board composition, Board Committees: Audit: Nomination: Remuneration: effectiveness and evaluation, particularly in relation to and Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive CREC.
Each Committee has terms of reference which Providing a communication channel between were reviewed during the year.
Copies are published on the Hikma website and are available for inspection the Chairman and Chief Executive and the at the registered office at 13 Hanover Square, London, Non-Executive Directors W1S 1HW or by contacting cosec@hikma.
Leading the bi-annual meetings of Non-Executive The Chairs of each Board Committee report on that Directors to assess the appropriateness of the Committees business at every Board meeting.
The governance structure and safeguards for shareholders minutes of each Committee are made available to the Providing a sounding board for executive management entire Board.
Each Committee is empowered to request and the Company Secretary information from management and the adviceof any Acting as an alternate point of contact for shareholders employee or officer, and obtain independent professional and maintaining contact with principal investors and advice at Hikmas expense.
representative bodies Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the strategy, risk planning and operations of executives, providing advice and external perspective.
They engage with management across the Group to ensure they are fully aware of the Groups activities and issues it faces.
The Non-Executive Directors also keep Hikmas governance structure under review and ensure that appropriate safeguards are in place.
The Board holds meetings without the executive management present to discuss issues affecting the Group.
77 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Continued Governance report Continued Hikma knowledge Effectiveness Board members frequently visit the business units and meet management teams to fully understand and advise Skills and experience on the important issues facing the Group.
During the The Board keeps the skills and experience of its year, Non-Executive Directors visited facilities in Jordan, members under constant review.
The Directors Portugal and the US.
The Executive Directors and Ali believe in the necessity for challenge and debate Al-Husry have extensive experience of Hikma from its in the boardroom and consider that existing Board earliest days to today.
The Directors maintain regular dynamics and processes encourage honest and contact with senior management and the Company open debate with the Executive Directors.
Secretary ensures that Directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
Board experience Training Listed environment 73% The Chairman considers the development needs of Directors as part of his ongoing assessment of Board Pharmaceutical 82% effectiveness and ensures that these requirements are Manufacturing 82% met by the Company Secretary organising appropriate training opportunities.
The main Board training and Sales 82% development activities this year were: Finance 82% External advisers provided the Board with training sessions on governance and financial reporting Business ethics and integrity 82% requirements Governance 91% Directors attended several externally provided seminars and discussion forums.
Further training is scheduled Commercial 100% for 2016 Regulatory and political 100% Hikmas brokers and financial advisers presented industry and market updates to the Board on several occasions Strategy and risk 100% The Company Secretary made regular updates Human resources 100% to the Directors on relevant regulatory and governance matters Country of origin Independent advice The Board Governance Manual provides for anyDirector to have access to independent professional advice at Hikmas expense.
External commitments Geographical experience The Directors external commitments are detailed in their profiles on pages 69 to 71.
The Nomination Committee MENA 64% operates, monitors and reviews the conflicts of interest UK 73% procedures, which have operated effectively during the year.
A register of external commitments is maintained Europe 82% by the Company Secretary and is reviewed at each US 91% Nomination Committee and Board meeting.
Where new commitments are proposed, these are reviewed Global 100% in advance by the Nomination Committee and, where appropriate, recommendations on necessary controls are made to the Board.
The Board considers that a degree of outside commitments enhances a Directors ability to perform the role.
78 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Time Elements assessed The Directors commit an appropriate amount of time Board Composition, Expertise & Dynamics to their roles and are readily available at short notice.
Time Management The Non-Executive Directors are required to commit 20 Board Support & Committees days during each year to the execution of their duties.
Strategic Oversight However, all of the Non-Executive Directors devote at least 30 days per annum to their Hikma responsibilities.
Risk Management In addition, the Committee Chairmen spend a significant Succession Planning and Human amount of time on their respective areas of responsibility Resource Management and Non-Executive Directors take time to meet with Priorities for Change management and visit operations where there are particular areas of interest.
Consequently, the Conclusions and action Independent Non-Executive Directors dedicate Key conclusions and observations from the substantially more time to Hikma than their 2015 evaluation: appointment requires.
The duties of theChairman and Chief Executive, Directors andCommittee Chairs The Board continues to operate effectively and are set out in the Board Governance Manual.
all members actively participate in all discussions with equal contributions, candid discussion and critical thinking Evaluation and performance The Board and the Committees undertake an externally The Board is well balanced in terms of skills, experience moderated evaluation each year.
The evaluation and independence process and the issues identified are summarised in The flow, timeliness and quality of information were the table below.
highly rated The Boards risk appetite is well balanced and Process considered appropriate The process is co-ordinated by the Senior Independent The position of Chairman and Chief Executive has been Director at the request of the Chairman well managed Lintstock, an external moderator which has no other The Board has a positive understanding of the markets connection with the Company, prepared online of Europe, North America and the MENA region questionnaires for both the Directors and senior management, designed to build on previously identified themes Lintstock managed the process and reported independently to the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director Lintstock presented the results and findings to the full Board in the context of Hikmas business and that of its peers in the FTSE and international markets and provided their independent feedback on the results A similar process was followed for each Committee of the Board The results of the evaluation process formed part of the Chairmans appraisal of the overall effectiveness of the Board and its members Regularly during the year, the Directors fed back to the Company Secretary improvements and enhancements that they considered should be progressed outside the evaluation timetable 79 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Continued Governance report Continued Progress on previously identified issues Responsibilities Observations Action taken Risk management The Board made the Chief Strategy Board responsibility practices could be and Corporate Development Officer The Board is the ultimate decision-making oversight expanded internally responsible for risk management at and control authority in Hikma.
The Board sets the the Executive Committee.
The Board strategic direction, monitors financial performance oversaw the development of the risk and challenges management ideas and performance.
appetite, reviewed the principal risks The Board promotes good governance within the Group, andconsidered managements and seeks to ensure that Hikma meets its responsibilities mitigation strategy for each to shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers and risk.
TheAudit Committee developed other stakeholders.
The Board is assisted in the delivery a process for assessing the viability of of its responsibilities by internal and external advisers: the Company and associated risk and viability disclosure.
Internal advisers Additional US political The Nomination Committee led a - President and CEO, MENA and regulatory search process for individuals with - Chief Financial Officer experience was the requisite specific and business - CEO US required, particularly leadership experience which led to with the Roxane the appointment of John J Castellani.
- Chief Strategy and Corporate DevelopmentOfficer acquisition - VP Strategy and Investor Relations Further assurance of The CRE Committee requested - VP Human Resources the implementation that the Company Secretary lead - VP EU and Injectables and suitability of the a re-assessment of Anti-Bribery ABC procedures and anti-Corruption practices.
The - Company Secretary assessment was undertaken by Good - General Counsel Corporation, as in 2011.
A full report demonstrated that significant progress External advisers Nature of advice had been made with development and - Bank of America Merrill Lynch Broker implementation.
The Audit Committee The Board decided to move the Investment adviser - CenterView Partners needed to focus on its governance and external commitment Broker and investment adviser - Citigroup extensive financial and responsibilities of the Audit Committee Auditor - Deloitte riskresponsibilities to the Nomination Committee, allowing both Committees to focus Internal audit - E&Y on the workstreams that more naturally Board evaluation - Lintstock suit their remit and providing a better Auditor designate - PwC time and responsibility balance.
and remuneration Chairmans appraisal Matters reserved to the Board The Non-Executive Directors regularly meet in private Hikma maintains a formal schedule of matters reserved during the course of the year.
The performance of to the Board in the Board Governance Manual, whichis the Chairman and the Board is discussed during these reviewed annually.
The Chief Executive is responsible for meetings.
Additionally, the Senior Independent Director delivering Hikmas strategic and operational objectives met with the Non-Executive Directors to undertake a and has authority from the Board to deliver those formal appraisal of the performance of the Chairman.
objectives through matters which are not reserved This review addressed: and where authority has been delegated specifically.
The effectiveness of the Chairmans leadership The Chief Executive reports on operational progress and corporate actions to the Board at each meeting.
The setting of the Board agenda Where appropriate, the Chief Executive is assisted by Communication with shareholders internal and external advisers in presenting operational Internal communication and Board efficiency progress and key strategic decisions to the Board.
The conclusion of this process was that the Chairman gave clear leadership and direction to the Board, and that the Board is run in an appropriate and effective manner.
80 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board Dialogue with stakeholders includes the following items: Hikma is committed to clear and open communicationwith shareholders and stakeholders.
Operational management: Approval of strategy, We take account of the views of our stakeholders in operations oversight, performance review our decisions and policies.
If there are matters on which Structure and capital: Approval of changes to Group additional explanation is required, we are always happy structure or changes to capital structure to discuss them.
Please contact the Company Secretary Financial reporting and controls: Approval of financial in the first instance by writing to cosec@hikma.
announcements, accounts, dividends: significant The Board maintains a regular dialogue with shareholders changes to treasury and accountancy practice through its investor relations programme, directed Internal controls: Assessing the effectiveness of towards ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
the Groups risk and control processes The principal ongoing communications with shareholders Contracts: Approval of significant contracts, are through the publication of Hikmas Annual Report investments and projects which meet pre-set and Accounts, interim results and interim management monetary thresholds statements.
The Chairman meets major shareholders periodically to discuss governance and strategy issuesin Communication: Approval of certain press releases, order to understand their views on the Company and to and all circulars and prospectuses ensure their views are communicated to the Board as a Board membership and other appointments: Approval whole.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director of changes to Board structure and composition, and other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet succession, auditors and Company Secretary with major shareholders on request.
The Committee Remuneration: Determining remuneration policy for Chairs remain open to discuss any matters relevant to senior management and Directors and officers and their areas of responsibility, either through contacting amending or introducing share incentive plans Hikma or at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Corporate governance: Annually reviewing Board, Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and if Committees and individual Director performance, unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
Copies and reviewing corporate governance arrangements of presentations made at the AGM are available on the website after the event, together with the results of the Indemnities and insurance voting.
All Directors are expected to attend the AGM Hikma maintains an appropriate level of Directors and and full attendance has been achieved other than when Officers insurance.
The Directors benefit from qualifying exceptional personal circumstances have intervened.
third-party indemnities made by Hikma that were in force For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Hikma during the year and as at the date of this report.
These Pharmaceuticals PLC indemnities are uncapped in amount in relation to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in the course of the performance of their duties.
Peter Speirs Company Secretary 15 March 2016 81 C o m Share plans Skills and Experience p l i a n c e, R e e e s t p Performance Succession t i o n m s i m b i o l i C t y t i & d Executive Director and Senior Management u E Appointments t Remuneration A h i c s C o m m Remuneration Policy i Training and Induction t t e e HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Continued Introduction to Committees The Board has an extensive workload and, therefore, has delegated the detailed oversight of certain items to four Board Committees and the Executive Committee of senior management.
Board Committees Board Committee responsibilities The four Board Committees are: Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee CREC Each Board Committee has terms of reference whichare reviewed annually, published on the Groups website at www.
com and are available for inspection at the registered office at 13 Hanover Square, London, W1S 1HW.
The Chair of each Board Committee reports The Board on that Committees business at every Board meeting.
The minutes of each Committee are made available to the entire Board.
Each Committee makes a formal annual report to shareholders in the Annual Report.
Executive Committee Additionally, the Chief Executive is supported by the Group Executive Committee, which considers and develops proposals to the Board, reviews operational performance and oversees strategic and risk activities.
This Committee is operationally supported by the Global Management Committee which is composed of executives at the level below the Executive Committee.
82 External Audit Corporate Governance e Internal Audit e N t o Speak Up t i m m i n m a o t Financial Reporting i C o n n Business Integrity o C i t o a m Risk Management r e m n i t u t Ethics m e e e Internal Control R CR Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Highlights in 2015 Priorities in 2016 Deloitte have served Reviewed the Roxane Integrating Roxane into Hikmas Hikma effectively and acquisition, due diligence financial reporting framework diligently.
and circular support Ensuring a successful first audit To find out more, see pages 84 to 89 Conducted an audit for PwC tender programme Continuing to advance the risk Advanced the risk agenda, management programme practices and disclosure Successful transition of the Committee Chair Nomination Committee Highlights in 2015 Priorities in 2016 We have found Identified John Castellani as an Further diversifying the the right people who additional Director in alignment gender profile of the Board broaden the experience with US expansion Reviewing the executive profile and fit very well Reviewed a BI proposal for succession plan with the existing team.
Jochen Gann to join the Board Considering the implications To find out more, see pages 90 to 95 Fully assumed responsibility of the FCAs governance for governance adjustments to the listing regime Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Highlights in 2015 Priorities in 2016 Samih Darwazah Reinforced our commitment Developing of Hikmas antifundamentally wanted to human dignity slavery and human trafficking to make the world a programme Transition to a new Chief better place through the Compliance Officer Expanding the CREC advancement of people.
responsibilities into AML ABC advancements certified To find out more, see pages and trade sanctions by the risk re-assessment 96 to 101 Promoted the CR programme Remuneration Committee Highlights in 2015 Priorities in 2016 The journey over Initiated the handover of Reviewing the Group the last few years has theCommittee Chair remuneration policy built more systems and Completed a tender for Embedding the handover processes to support, but not a new remuneration adviser of the Chair deviate from, that vision of family.
Better aligned executive Inducting the new remuneration with the FTSE 100 remuneration adviser To find out more, see pages and global pharma group 102 to 124 83
