HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee reports: Audit Letter from the Chair Performance and prospects an objective assessment Deloitte have served Hikma effectively and diligently.
diligently, and were exceptionally helpful to me in my Dear Shareholders new role over the last 12 months.
We wish them well This is my first letter to you as Chairman of the Audit for the future.
We welcome our new team from PwC Committee.
Firstly I would like to thank Breffni Byrne to the journey ahead.
for his outstanding leadership of the Committee for its first ten years and for the thoughtfulness and Through the course of the year and at the Committees generosity with which he has helped me transition request we were joined in our meetings by the Chief into the role over the last year.
I also welcome John Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the VP of Investor Castellani as a new member of the Committee, bringing Relations, the Group Financial Controller and other a wealth of experience from the US and from the members of the finance team, as well as the auditors regulatory environment.
In addition, the Committee met with both internal and external auditors without 2015 was a busy year for the Audit Committee.
management present, and I met with each separately In addition to the normal audit, internal control and on several occasions as part of a review of their work.
reporting responsibilities, we spent considerable time on the Roxane acquisition, on the due diligence, the This letter and the report following should give you an approval and the issuance of a combined Class I overview of the scope of the Committees role, how it Circular and Prospectus to Shareholders.
operates and the highlights of the last year.
In addition, I am happy to meet with shareholders directly if there The Committee also spent considerable time overseeing are matters you would like to discuss.
the work done to consolidate and enhance how Hikma reports and manages the risks it faces.
We approved the design of an enterprise wide approach to risk management, along with new risk and control reporting, and have been monitoring its testing and implementation.
Pat Butler Chair of the Audit Committee We also put the Companys annual audit up for tender this year, and as a result are proposing to change auditors from Deloitte to  PwC from 2016.
Deloitte have served Hikma effectively and 84 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2015 Overview 2015 Highlights Membership and attendance Roxane acquisition assessed financial transaction The Audit Committee comprises seven Independent rationale, diligence and support for the circular Non-Executive Directors: Pat Butler Committee Chair, and supplementary circular Breffni Byrne, Michael Ashton, Ronald Goode, Robert Pickering, Dr Pamela Kirby and John Castellani.
Risk management thoroughly reviewed our Pat Butler, the Chair, has extensive experience of risk appetite, risk management frameworkand financing, accounting, risk and internal control principal risks, viability position and disclosure matters from his 30 years at McKinsey and Arthur Audit tendering conducted an extensive audit Andersen.
All members have spent a significant tender process and appointed a new auditor portion of their careers in leading positions at Non-audit fees reviewed the position on financial, advisory and pharmaceutical companies.
non-audit fees and have resolved to minimise the level of non-audit services Meeting Members Member since Attended Potential attendance Auditing monitored the performance and findings of the external and internal auditors Pat Butler Chair 1 Apr 2014 7 7 100% Breffni Byrne 14 Oct 2005 7 7 100% Michael Ashton 14 Oct 2005 7 7 100% Ronald Goode 12 Dec 2006 7 7 100% Robert Pickering 1 Sept 2011 7 7 100% Dr Pamela Kirby 1 Dec 2014 6 7 86% John Castellani 1 March 2016 Total meetings 7 98% Calendar of events Q1 Q2 Allocation of time Forecast I Audit tender Preliminary statements Risk appetite Final performance 20% Report and Accounts Forecast II & IMS Announcements 8% Principal risks and Results uncertainties Forecasts 11% Corporate governance review Internal Audit 10% External Audit 22% Risk 9% Q3 Q4 Roxane 20% Roxane due diligence Roxane circular Interim dividend Forecast IV & IMS Advisers Forecast III &Interim Audit performance Internal External announcement and plan Chief Financial Officer Deloitte Auditor and results Budget for 2016 VP Investor Relations  Audit tender exercise Risk assessment and Strategy Successor Auditor Internal audit report Company Secretary Ernst & Young Internal Audit Group Financial Controller 85 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee reports: Audit Continued The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging Accounts receivable and inventory: The Committee its responsibilities for financial reporting, external audit, reviewed the reports on major receivables and internal audit, internal controland risk management.
The Committee considered The Committee reviews Hikmas Annual Report, financial managements valuation of inventory, plans to statements, interim reports, trading updates and ensure payment and relevant provisions.
monitors all audit and non-audit work undertaken Goodwill and intangibles: The Committee reviewed by external auditors.
Itmonitors the effectiveness and managements impairment analysis and associated output of Hikmas internal and external audit activities, judgements.
internal controls and risk management systems.
The Asset impairment: The Group has significant Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment, investment in fixed assets.
The Committee monitored reappointment and removal of the external auditors, the application of the Groups policies in relation as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
The to impairment and valuation of those assets Committee terms of reference include all matters and considered and challenged managements indicated by the Code and clearly set out its authority recommendations regarding the appropriate and duties.
They are reviewed by the Board as part impairment.
of the annual corporate governance review.
During Rebates and chargebacks: The Committee assessed the year, the Committee passed responsibility for the reports on the processing of chargebacks and corporate governance and Directors conflicts of interest rebates in the US.
This is a highly judgemental area procedures to the Nomination Committee.
The terms and applies to a significant proportion of Group of reference are published on the Hikma website and revenue.
The Committee considered the control are available for inspection at the registered office at and modelling environment and the appropriateness 13 Hanover Square, London, W1S 1HW or by contacting of associated provisions.
Going concern: The Committee assessedthe going concern position when preparing the annual and Significant accounting judgements half-yearly financial statements.
The Committee took During 2015 and up until the date of this report, the into account Hikmas forecasts and budget, borrowing Audit Committee considered and discussed the following facilities, contingent liabilities, medium and long-term financial matters: plan, and financial and operational risk management.
Revenue recognition: The Committee reviewed Viability: The Committee received the five-year business the judgements of management regarding revenue projections and considered the risk related scenarios recognition for significant products where the potential that could impact those projects and the ability of for returns and rebates was high.
The Committee was the Company to remain viable.
satisfied that the review by management validated the approach to revenue recognition and took account of Fair, balanced and understandable changes in the environment for those products during Hikma is committed to clear and transparent the year.
disclosure and seeks to continuouslyimprove the Taxation: The Groups worldwide operations are clarity of its reporting.
In producing the Annual Report, highly integrated and involve a number of crossmanagement, the auditors and the Committee ensure border transactions.
There is complexity and that the disclosures are in clear language, reflect the judgement in estimating the potential tax liabilities underlying situation and that appropriate information in various jurisdictions.
The Committee reviewed the is disclosed.
appropriateness of the disclosures in the Annual Report and considered the advice from professional services firms and management in this regard.
86 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee External audit considers whether Hikmas Annual Report is fair, The external audit was undertaken by Deloitte LLP.
At the balanced and understandable and whether it provides AGM, the Board is recommending the appointment of the necessary information for shareholders to assess PwC as auditors.
As in previous years, the Committee Hikmas position, performance, business model and maintained regular contact with the auditors throughout strategy.
The Committees assessment is underpinned the year.
The Committee regularly reviews the work of bya comprehensive review conducted by a committee the external auditors and undertook an assessment of of senior management the Reporting Committee, the auditors performance and independence and in which consists of the: doing so examined the following issues during the year: Chief Financial Officer Audit quality and technical capabilities Vice President, Corporate Strategy and The Committee formally reviewed the quality of the Investor Relations audit and capabilities of the team during the year and Company Secretary concluded that the existing team conductedan effective General Counsel audit.
The Committee feeds back its comments on the auditors performance as part of the regular meetings Investor Relations Manager with them that occur without management present.
The Vice President for Human Resources Committee evaluation processincludes an assessment of Divisional Heads the work of the auditors, which was rated positively.
The FRCs audit quality review team reviewed Deloittes audit Group Financial Controller of Hikmas 2014 financial statements as part of their Chief Compliance Officer 2015 annual inspection of audit firms.
The Chair of the The Reporting Committee, which meets regularly during Audit Committee received a full report of the findings the year: of this review and discussed them with Deloitte.
The Committee noted that there were no significant areas Initiates the first review of the Annual Report in for improvement identified with the report.
The auditors November, at which point areas for improvement ensure that experienced specialists assist management are identified and enhancements recommended and present to the Committee where there are issues Discusses the proposed disclosures with external of a more complex nature, such as international auditors, brokers and public relations advisers to taxation.
The Committee believes that there is a strong, obtain their input appropriate and open relationship between the audit Reviewsand refines disclosure and ensures the team leadership, the Audit Committee and management.
opinions of the advisers continue to be sought Oversees a verification process to ensure the Independence accuracy of disclosures The Committee regularly reviews the independence safeguards of the auditors.
The auditors are not allowed Issues guidance to contributors at the beginning to undertake work that involves promoting Hikma, and throughout the process and reports on actions installing systems, making management decisions, and significant areas of judgement to the Audit supporting litigation or tasks that would involve review Committee as appropriate or reliance upon their audit work.
The Committee aims The Audit Committee closely oversees the work of the to minimise non-audit work andauthorises such activities Reporting Committee, which is responsible for ensuring only where the appointment is in the best interests of the accuracy of the information submitted in the Annual the Group and: Report and assessing whether the narrative section of The independence of the auditors is maintained the report is consistent with the accounting information.
both in terms of the type of work undertaken and Each of the members of the Audit Committee and the the overall level of the non-audit fee Reporting Committee was satisfied that the 2015 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable The services of other major providers is limited due to issues such as conflicts of interest and recommended the adoption of the report and accounts to the Board.
Where the matters on the agenda relate to their areas of responsibility 87 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee reports: Audit Continued Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and nonRisk and associated disclosures audit services are outlined in Note 6 to the consolidated Readers are directed to the risk and control disclosures financial statements and in the chart below.
Audit-related as follows: services are services carried out by the external audit Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 54 to 56 team by virtue of the role and principally include Risk management on page 58 assurance-related work.
Internal control on page 58 Competition and Markets Authority Order Internal audit on page 59 The Audit Committee has complied with the CMA Viability on page 60 order relating to the provision of statutory audit services.
A competitive audit tender process was undertaken during 2015 and the Committees responsibilities For and on behalf of the Audit Committee and powers include those detailed in the Order.
Auditors Fees $ million Pat Butler Audit-Related Fees Non-Audit-Related Fees Audit Committee Chair Tax advisory services Tax compliance services 15 March 2016 Other non-audit services $1.7m 15 $2.9m 10% 4% 86% $1.8m 14 $0.5m 80% 20% 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 Includes services related to corporate transactions, primarily the Roxane acquisition and Class 1 Circular.
88 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Case study audit tender Introduction Deloitte LLP were appointed as auditors when the original Hikma holding company was incorporated in 1977.
Since that point there have been three senior audit partners, withthe current senior audit partner due tocomplete his term in March 2016.
As a result of this and the regulatory changes, the Audit Committee decided it would be prudent to undertake a tender exercise during 2015.
Leadership The tender process was led by the Audit Committee Chair and a Steering Committee was established comprising the Audit Committee Chair, Mr Breffni Byrne, Dr Pamela Kirby, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the Company Secretary.
Participants Given the size, complexity and geographical scope of the Company, several major global accounting firms were invited to take part in the tender.
Process The tender process and the Committees involvement in the process are outlined below: June 2015 June July 2015 July 2015 August 2015 Request for Proposal Data room Management Presentation Hikma provided access Firms presented their RFP meetings to relevant data.
The Steering Hikma circulated the RFP Firms met management Committee reviewed the to selected firms.
and held one to one proposals and considered Site visits meetings with the Audit which firm to recommend.
Firms visited the Groups Committee Chair and Independence major facilities and Chief Financial Officer.
Firms confirmed their operations in Jordan & assessment of the US.
Proposal Firms submitted a written Audit Committee proposal which was The Steering Committee reviewed by the made a recommendation Steering Committee.
Conclusion and rationale Detailed evaluation criteria and a scoring matrix were used to assist the Steering Committee in making its decision.
The Committee considered that Deloitte had been invaluable in assisting the development of the Company from incorporation to listing andto the present day.
The Committee balanced this against theadvantages of having a newaudit firmas the Company further matured.
PwC had communicated a clear desire to take on the audit, developed excellent relationships with management and had a clear plan to help the Company on the next step of its journey.
Accordingly, having taken appropriate references into consideration, the Committee recommended the appointment of PwC and a resolutionproposing PwC as Hikmas auditor will be put to the shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
There are no contractual provisions that restrict the Committees choice of auditor and Hikma does not indemnify its external auditor.
Should shareholders wish to discuss the change of auditor, the Chair of the Audit Committee will make himself available.
