Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Nominations Committee Report INTRODUCTION BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP 73 The primary function of a Nominations Committee is to ensure Will Samuel Chairman that the Companys people agenda is aligned to its underlying Mark Allen purpose and its strategic objectives.
In the first instance, Andrew Cripps From 1 December 2015 this involves building a board of directors with the requisite Geoff Drabble From 3 July 2015 balance of skills, experience and diversity of mindset to Tiffany Hall achieve this.
Richard Pennycook Michael Wemms To that end, the Howdens Nominations Committee keeps under review the size, composition and structure of the In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and Board and makes recommendations to the Board for all new the Committees terms of reference, during the year the appointments and reappointments.
Given the uniqueness of Nominations Committee consisted wholly of independent the Howdens business model, this requires the Nominations Non-Executive Directors.
Subject to successful annual Committee, on behalf of the Board, to identify individuals not re-election to the Board, appointments to the Nominations only with the requisite skill set but who also subscribe to a Committee are for a period of three years, which may common set of values, who have an inherent understanding be extended by the Committee provided the Director of and sympathy with Howdens entrepreneurial culture and remains independent.
who continually strive for improvement across all parts of the business.
MEETING ATTENDANCE The Committee meets at least twice a year and at any other In support of the primary function of continually assessing such time as the Chairman of the Committee requires.
the needs of the Board in relation to the Company, the Only the attendance of members of this committee is Committee oversees the Director induction programme and shown in the table below, although other Directors, where determines the Companys policies on Boardroom diversity appropriate, have often also attended at the invitation of and Board effectiveness.
During the year, the Committee met on four occasions in order Attendance No.
of meetings to consider: Will Samuel 3 4 Non-Executive succession planning and management, Mark Allen 4 4 in particular in relation to the appointment of a new Geoff Drabble 2 3 Chairman and two Non-Executive Directors: Tiffany Hall 4 4 The renewal of Michael Wemms letter of appointment: Richard Pennycook 3 4 The Boards policy on diversity: Michael Wemms 4 4 The form and scope of the 2015 Board evaluation exercise: The reappointment of Directors at the 2015 Annual General Mr Samuel and Mr Pennycook absented themselves for all Meeting: and matters concerning the Chairman succession process.
The ongoing appropriateness of the Committees terms There were no Nominations Committee meetings following of reference.
Andrew Cripps appointment on 1 December and therefore he did not attend any meetings during the year.
TERMS OF REFERENCE To view the Nominations Committee full terms of reference please refer to the Companys website: www.
com Nominations Committee Report continued BOARD COMPOSITION Chairman Succession 74 The Company announced on 2 December that, having served Board Succession as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company since 2006, Will An effective Nominations Committee will establish a stable Samuel would step down from the Board with effect from leadership framework.
Part of its work must also be to the Annual General Meeting in May 2016 and that Richard proactively manage change to reassess the future leadership Pennycook, who has been a Non-Executive Director of needs of the Company.
As detailed in the report below, the Howdens since September 2013, would assume the role of Howdens Nominations Committee has successfully managed Non-Executive Chairman from that date.
a Board succession programme in recent years which has ensured a smooth introduction of new Directors to the Board.
In order to help ensure a rigorous process the Nominations Committee agreed to engage executive search firm Zygos The Nominations Committee remains committed to a Partnership Zygos to facilitate the Chairman selection programme of reviewing and refreshing the Non-Executive process.
The Nominations Committee also agreed that the membership of the Board to ensure there is sufficient balance Senior Independent Director would lead the selection process, between the introduction of fresh perspectives and the and whilst Mr Samuels opinion would be sought at each stage, maintenance of continuity and stability.
Where possible, the he would absent himself from wider discussion and would not Board will ensure a phased transition of Non-Executives in be involved in decision-making.
order to avoid wholesale changes to the make-up of the Board.
Subsequent to the appointment of Zygos, the Committee Executive succession planning is a matter which is explicitly agreed the terms upon which the process would be reserved for the Board as a whole and is considered in the undertaken.
Initially, a role specification, including appropriate Corporate Governance Report on page 43. candidate profile and necessary personal characteristics, was decided.
On that basis, Zygos produced a long-list of candidates on behalf of the Committee which the Committee Non-Executive Tenure as at 26 December 2015: subsequently reviewed and refined to a shortlist of four candidates.
Profiles for shortlisted candidates were submitted Will Samuel to the Committee and all prospective candidates met with the Senior Independent Director, with most candidates Michael Wemms meeting with all members of the Committee.
After careful Tiffany Hall consideration, and having ensured the requisite availability of the preferred candidate and that the Committee were satisfied Mark Allen that he would be able to meet the time demands of the role, Richard Pennycook the Committee recommended the appointment of Richard Pennycook as Chairman to the Board.
This recommendation Geoff Drabble was subsequently approved.
Andrew Cripps 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Zygos Partnership has no other connection with the Company.
W ill Samuel was appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2006 and appointed Chairman of the Company in October 2006.
He was independent upon appointment.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Appointments Reappointments 75 With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, Upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK and after careful consideration, the Board agreed to reappoint Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related Michael Wemms as Non-Executive Director and Senior legislation.
On that basis, in early 2015, the Nominations Independent Director in November 2015.
Michael was Committee executed its long-term succession plans and began appointed as Non-Executive Director in November 2006 and, a search for a new Non-Executive Director.
This was to ensure whilst it was noted that the UK Corporate Governance Code that a continuous transition process could take place between identifies non-executive tenure in excess of nine years as being new and long-serving Non-Executives.
Zygos was engaged one circumstance which may impede a directors ongoing by the Committee to assist with the identification of suitable independence, the Board was satisfied that Michael remained candidates.
The shortlisted candidates met with all Executive independent in character and judgement and therefore and Non-Executive Directors prior to the deliberations of approved a one-year extension to his letter of appointment.
the Nominations Committee and, having considered the merits of all of the candidates, including relevant experience The Board also recognised of the importance of the role of the and diversity of perspective, the Committee made its Senior Independent Director in facilitating a smooth transition recommendation to the Board and Geoff Drabble was process between the outgoing and incoming Chairmen, appointed Non-Executive Director on 3 July.
ensuring a continuing clear division of responsibilities in the period before the changeover took place, while also assisting Concurrent to the Chairman succession process, in recognition in the development of the working relationship between the of the fact that the current Audit Committee Chairman was new Chairman and the Chief Executive in the months following a candidate for the Chairman role, a process to appoint a the Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Director who could ultimately become Audit Committee Chairman was undertaken.
Once again, Zygos was Annual General Meeting AGM elections engaged by the Committee to assist with the identification of and re-elections candidates with the requisite financial experience to replace As stated in the Corporate Governance Report, and with Richard Pennycook should it become necessary.
As with the exception of Will Samuel who will retire immediately the recruitment of Geoff Drabble, short listed candidates following the AGM, all of the Directors not appointed since met with all Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The the last AGM will retire in accordance with the UK Corporate Nominations Committee then deliberated, taking into account Governance Code and each will offer themself for re-election all of the requisite considerations set out previously and in accordance with Article 118 of the Articles of Association made its recommendation to the Board.
Pursuant to this at the 2016 AGM.
Geoff Drabble and Andrew Cripps, having recommendation, Andrew Cripps was appointed as Nonbeen appointed since the last AGM, will offer themselves Executive Director on 1 December.
Andrew will take over from for election in accordance with Article 117 of the Articles Richard as Audit Committee Chairman with effect from the of Association.
Both Geoff Drabble and Andrew Cripps bring a wealth of commercial, executive and non-executive In proposing their re-election, the Chairman confirms that experience and have proven track records in leadership in the Nominations Committee has considered the formal their respective fields.
performance evaluation in respect of those Directors seeking re-election, and the contribution and commitment of the Directors that are required to offer themselves for re-election.
He has confirmed to the Board that their performance and commitment is such that the Company should support their re-election.
Nominations Committee Report continued No Director was able to vote in respect of their own DIVERSITY 76 re-election when consideration was given to Director Boardroom diversity re-election at the AGM.
The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that there is diversity of perspective, background and approach in its Information on the Directors service agreements, options management team and on its Board.
Since the business was and interests of the Directors and their families in the share established in 1995, it has sought to enable individuals to capital of the Company is set out in the separate Report progress within the organisation regardless of age, gender, of Remuneration Committee on pages 47 to 66.
Details of background or formal qualifications.
indemnity provisions made for the benefit of Directors are given in the Corporate Governance report on page 43.
We believe that it is in the interests of the business and of its shareholders for us to build a stable, cohesive and DIRECTOR INDUCTION AND TRAINING representative Board.
Whilst the setting of targets on All new Directors undertake an induction programme upon particular aspects of diversity may be relevant in many cases, joining the Board.
Whilst each induction programme is tailored we feel that this could be given inappropriate focus within to the specific needs of the individual, we strive to provide a the context of a smaller board, resulting in the possible dynamic introduction to the real nature of the business through overlooking of certain well-qualified candidates.
the provision of specifically selected information, by meeting with individuals both internal and external who are central to The Nominations Committee will continue to seek diversity the ongoing success of the business and by visiting key sites of mindset as well as of gender and background when such as depots, manufacturing sites and distribution centres.
considering new appointments in the period to 2017, and it will continue to review this policy on an annual basis to The Nominations Committee recognises that regular ensure it remains appropriate.
reacquaintance with the culture of the business underpins the effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors.
Therefore, NonMore widely, we are committed to developing a long-term Executive Directors are invited to attend Howdens events and pipeline of executive talent that reflects the diversity of locations and meet with employees at any time following their Howdens business and its stakeholders.
As at 26 December 2015, 11% of Board members were The individual training and development needs of Directors women.
Both of the Executive Directors were male.
are considered as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
Ongoing training and development for the Directors Group diversity policy includes attendance at formal conferences and internal The Group promotes the importance of diversity and adopts events as well as briefings from external advisers.
All an Equal Opportunities Policy under which training and career members of the Board are members of the Deloitte Academy development opportunities are available to all employees, which provides in-depth updates on financial reporting and regardless of gender, religion or race.
The Group is committed corporate governance matters.
to meeting the code of practice on the employment of disabled people and full and fair consideration is given to disabled Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars and applicants for employment.
It aims to do all that is practicable briefings as part of their continuous professional development.
to meet its responsibility towards the employment and training The Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to meet with of disabled people.
The Group welcomes, and considers Howdens employees at all levels in order to maintain a broad fully, applications by disabled persons, having regard to their view of the business.
It is also the Groups policy to retain employees who may become disabled while in service and to provide appropriate training.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Group Gender Diversity Statistics as at 26 December 2015: 77 2015 2014 % of % of Female Male Total Female Female Male Total Female Board 1 8 9 11.1% 1 6 7 14.3% Executive Committee Members including Executive Directors 1 7 8 12.5% 2 5 7 28.6% Senior Management Group 25 96 121 20.5% 19 85 104 18.3% Group Total 2,306 5,965 8,271 27.9% 1,983 5,523 7,506 26.4% The Senior Management Group includes employee Grades 13 on the Hays evaluation basis and divisional, regional and area sales managers.
It does not include members of the Board or the Executive Committee.
The Nominations Committee reviews these gender statistics against Office for National Statistics ONS averages each year and, in relation to gender diversity in the Board, against other FTSE250 company averages.
Similarly, where other data is available, this is presented to the Committee in order to determine whether there are any implicit diversity issues.
THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE IN 2016 The Nominations Committee is scheduled to meet at least twice during 2016.
It will continue to consider Board succession and review the balance of skills on the Board.
In addition, it will also assess the time commitment and performance of NonExecutive Directors, plan the external board evaluation process, discuss boardroom diversity, and review the Committees terms of reference.
Richard Pennycook will become Chairman of the Nominations Committee in May 2016.
By order of the Board Will Samuel Nominations Committee Chairman 24 February 2016
