Home Retail Group 40 Annual Report 2015 Audit Committee report Membership Chairs introduction The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Ian Durant, whom the Board considers has both recent and relevant financial experience.
Ian Durant is a Chartered Accountant and a former Finance Director of Liberty International renamed Intu Properties and other companies.
Further biographical details of Ian Durant are shown in the Board of Directors profiles on page 33.
Meetings The committee met five times during the year and attendance at those The Audit Committee has a key role to play in supporting the Board meetings is shown on page 37 within the corporate governance section.
in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, At the invitation of the committee chairman, the Group Chairman, risk management and assessing internal controls and ensuring high Chief Executive and Finance Director attended all committee meetings.
standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process.
The Group head of internal audit and the external auditors also attended This report summarises the committees activities in these areas.
all regularly scheduled meetings of the committee at the invitation of the Whilst maintaining a focus on cutting clutter wherever possible, committee chairman.
The external auditors did not attend an additional I have sought to ensure that this report provides clear explanations on meeting in January 2015 that considered external auditor rotation and the approach we have taken in reaching conclusions on key judgements mandatory tendering.
After each of the four regular meetings the and estimates and to increased disclosures in the financial statements committee met with the external auditors and the head of internal audit, in areas such as commercial income.
in each case without the presence of executive directors or management.
As indicated in the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, the work of the Audit Committee relies on frank, open working relationships Main activities with the Board, management and internal and external auditors and The committee supports the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in particularly between the Audit Committee Chair and the Board relation to financial reporting, risk management and assessing internal Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
It oversees internal audit and the relationship with the external to all my colleagues for their contribution to these relationships.
auditor including the effectiveness of the external audit and the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The committee has a structured annual programme developed from its terms of reference and Ian Durant linked to the Groups financial calendar.
The programme includes standing Chair Audit Committee items the committee considers at each meeting as well as topical items on which the committee has chosen to focus.
The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and were last reviewed in February 2015.
They can be found on the Groups website homeretailgroup.
Specific issues considered by the committee included the results of the Groups balance sheet review exercise which was completed during the year, the Groups response to risks arising in relation to information and cyber security, the transition of consumer credit regulatory responsibility to the FCA and a review of risk management processes taking into account the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code that will apply to the Group in FY16.
At each of the four regular meetings, the committee considered reports from the head of internal audit and reports on any material or potential litigation involving Group companies.
During the period under review, the committee also reviewed management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud including the Groups anti-bribery arrangements: reviewed arrangements by which Group employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, dishonesty, corruption, breaches of business principles and other matters and reviewed the statement in the annual report on the system of internal control see page 37 within the corporate governance section.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Board asked the committee to advise on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups business model, strategy and performance.
The committee reviewed the process for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 41 The committee concluded that the projected value-in-use calculations This process included the following key elements: based on these cash flows supported the carrying value of the Groups Review of new regulations and reporting requirements with goodwill, and therefore that no impairment had occurred.
Details of the external advisers to identify additional information and disclosures assumptions applied in calculating the value-in-use of the Groups goodwill that may be appropriate.
are set out in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements on page 96.
Preparation of a detailed timetable and allocation of drafting responsibility to relevant internal teams with review by an appropriate Impairment of store card receivables senior manager.
Store card receivables of 580m represent a significant asset on the Provision of an explanation of the requirements of fair, balanced and Groups balance sheet.
The provision for impairment has been established understandable to those with drafting responsibility.
on a portfolio basis, taking into account the level of arrears, past loss Monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements and other experience and defaults based on portfolio trends, and also judgements information provided to shareholders to ensure they represented a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups financial performance made by management to assess the appropriateness of the provision.
The committee concurred with managements assessment and Review of significant financial reporting issues and judgements judgements and agreed that the provisioning level was appropriate.
contained in the financial statements.
Further details of provisions against receivables are disclosed in note 20 Review of all sections of the report by relevant external advisers.
to the consolidated financial statements on page 101. Review by senior management responsible for the annual report process.
Property provisions Interim progress review of both process and report content with the The committee considered the property provisions which include Audit Committee chair.
provisions made for store exit costs and provisions made for onerous lease Review of a paper presented to the committee which set out to review contracts for stores that have closed, or where a decision to close has been the contents of the annual report and substantiate why it provided a fair, announced, and for those stores where the projected future trading income balanced and understandable view of the year under review.
is insufficient to cover the lower of exit cost or cost of continuing to trade the store.
The onerous lease model is judgemental and dependent on The committee reviewed the annual report and has confirmed to the Board future events such as trading conditions at a particular store.
The onerous that in the opinion of the committee it is fair, balanced and understandable.
lease provisions represent managements best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date based on the financial plans approved by the Board.
Financial reporting The committee agreed with the judgements made and conclusions drawn The committee reviewed the full-year and half-year results by management, and concluded that it was appropriate to recognise a net announcement, the Annual Report and Financial Statements and release of 15.9m in the FY15 property provisions.
Further details can be considered reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting found in note 24 on page 103. or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
To inform the Boards assessment of whether it was appropriate for the Balance sheet review Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing financial statements, During the first half of the financial year management commenced at both the half year and full year, the committee considered detailed a review of certain higher risk areas within the Argos balance sheet.
reviews, based on the Groups financial plans, in relation to liquidity and Subsequent to this and following the well publicised accounting issues solvency taking into consideration the Groups cash position, bank facilities in the retail sector and the FRCs December 2014 press release in respect and store card receivables together with a range of sensitivities.
of complex supplier arrangements, management agreed with the Audit The primary areas of accounting judgements and issues considered by Committee to broaden this review to encompass a detailed review of the the committee in relation to the FY15 financial statements and how these Groups balance sheet.
This exercise involved significant internal and were addressed are set out below.
During the course of the year the committee received regular updates Commercial income on the review at the end of which it considered the results, which amounted Following the FRCs December 2014 press release on the disclosure of to a net credit of 11.5m being recognised as a one-off non-benchmark complex supplier arrangements in financial statements, the committee item in the current year together with certain control and process reviewed the different types of commercial income within the Group, and improvements, principally in Argos.
Further details of these adjustments the accounting policies and estimates applied in recognising this income.
are disclosed in the Group finance review to the consolidated financial The committee also considered and concurred with the increased statements on page 28. disclosure which management has included in the consolidated financial statements.
This disclosure can be found in the Groups accounting policies on page 80 and in note 20 on page 101.
Goodwill impairment assessment The committee reviewed managements assessment of the carrying value of the Groups goodwill of 1,544m.
In doing so the committee considered the key judgements including the discount rate, long-term growth rate, and the projected future cash flows of each cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated, based upon the financial plans approved by the Board.
Home Retail Group 42 Annual Report 2015 Audit Committee report continued Inventory provisions Exceptional items Inventory of 963m represents a significant asset on the Groups balance Argos Transformation Plan sheet and is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net Given the scale of the Argos Transformation Plan, the committee realisable value takes into account slow moving, obsolete and defective considered the judgements made by management when assessing inventory.
Provision is also made against inventory losses arising, for the items to be reported as exceptional.
The committee agreed with example, due to theft.
The committee considered and concurred with managements assessment that the exceptional items in respect of managements assessment of the net realisable value of inventory because the Argos Transformation Plan have been calculated and reported in the methodology used in calculating provisions against inventory has been accordance with the policy set out in note 3.
These items have been consistently applied by management, taking into account previous reported in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements and experience of impairment or inventory losses.
Homebase Productivity Plan External audit The committee has reviewed the nature of Homebase exceptional costs One of the primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee is to assess the which have been incurred in FY15 as a result of the cost-reduction exercise effectiveness of the external audit process and make recommendations to associated with the store exit programme included within the previously the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of announced Homebase Productivity Plan.
The exceptional costs incurred the external auditors.
The committee took a number of factors into in FY15 amounted to 6.2m and related to costs associated with a account in its assessment, including but not limited to: Homebase head office restructuring programme together with the closure the quality and scope of the planning of the audit.
In September 2014, of a distribution centre in FY16.
The committee agreed with managements the external auditors presented their strategy for FY15 to the assessment that these items, which have been reported in note 9 to the committee.
The committee reviewed and agreed with the external consolidated financial statements, have been calculated and reported auditors assessment of risks.
The committee also reviewed the audit in accordance with the policy set out in note 3. approach including how the external auditors planned to evolve the audit to respond to changes in the business including the Provisions for customer redress in respect of Financial Services products Transformation Plan in Argos and the external auditors approach to The Groups Financial Services division offers Payment Protection Insurance assessing materiality for the Group: to its customers.
In response to an industry-wide review by the FCA, a full the quality of reports provided to the committee and the Board and the investigation was undertaken in FY14 with the support of an independent quality of advice given: expert, which resulted in a customer redress exercise commencing.
the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses and An increase to the provision of 4.1m was charged to exceptional items in the retail sector: FY15 and redress payments have begun to be made resulting in the partial the objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around utilisation of this provision during FY15.
The provision continues to represent the Group and the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which managements best estimate of the liability for future customer redress required management judgement: and payments at the balance sheet date.
The committee agreed with the the key messages highlighted in the Public Report on the 2013 14 judgements made and conclusions drawn by management, and therefore inspection of  by the FRCs Audit Quality concluded that the accounting for these provisions was appropriate.
Review Team AQRT and the principal findings highlighted for audit committees in the AQRTs annual report for 2013 14.
Other Group restructuring costs The committee agreed with managements assessment that these In addition, a review was undertaken by the Groups internal audit exceptional items, which totalled 13.0m and which principally related department of the effectiveness of the external audit for the previous to costs associated with transitioning the Groups information systems financial year.
infrastructure and services to Fujitsu, have been calculated and reported Effectiveness was assessed in relation to three areas: robustness of in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the audit: quality of audit: and quality of people and service.
A questionnaire policy set out in note 3. was completed by stakeholders within management, including managing Other areas which were discussed and considered by the Audit directors of the main businesses, members of the risk committee and Committee in relation to the FY15 financial statements and how these divisional finance directors.
Respondents were required to score the were addressed are set out below.
external auditors performance against a range of criteria and were also given the opportunity to provide comments and explanations.
The results Impairment of assets evidenced a positive evaluation of the work of the external auditors and Management concluded that it was prudent to test the Argos and that high standards had been maintained.
The committee reviewed and Homebase store assets for impairment at year-end.
The store portfolios discussed the findings of the report with the head of internal audit and were therefore tested for impairment, using value-in-use calculations, the lead audit engagement partner after taking into account all of the based on projected future cash flows from the financial plans approved above factors, the committee concluded that the external auditors by the Board.
The committee concurred with the conclusion that an were effective.
impairment charge of 15.8m was required in Homebase and that no Taking into consideration the audit strategy and proposed areas of charge was required in Argos.
Further details of the impairment charge work and the assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit for the can be found in note 16. previous financial year, the Audit Committee discussed and approved the external auditors audit fee proposal.
Further details of the audit fee can be found in note 7 on page 91.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 43 For the period under review non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors, Independence  LLP were less than 10% of the audit fee.
External auditor independence is an essential part of the audit framework Non-audit services provided by the external auditors were taxation and the assurance it provides.
The committee reviews the independence services relating primarily to support work on routine HMRC enquiries.
of the external auditor when considering their reappointment.
The The external auditors were engaged to undertake these assignments after committee has established control procedures to safeguard the objectivity discussion with the committee chair because of their past experience and independence of the external auditors and to ensure that the in delivering similar services to the Group and their cost effectiveness.
independence of the audit work undertaken by the external auditors is The fees in respect of assignments carried out by the external auditor not compromised.
These procedures include a policy on the provision of in addition to their normal work in the period under review were: non-audit services overseen by the Finance Director in consultation with the committee chair: annual confirmation of independence in writing m by the external auditors following a review of relevant areas including relationships and investment, services provided to the Group and gifts Taxation services 0.1 and hospitality: consideration of the external auditors confirmation at a committee meeting: and half-yearly reports to the committee providing All other services details of any assignments and related fees carried out by the external auditors in addition to their normal work.
These control procedures are Internal audit and control in addition to the Groups anti-bribery and gifts and hospitality policies.
The Group has an internal audit department and the Group head of internal Audit partner rotation forms part of the arrangements that support audit reports jointly to the chair of the committee and to the Finance independence and objectivity.
The committee agreed the audit plan to be undertaken by the internal audit team at its meeting in February 2014 prior to the start of the External auditor rotation financial year and at each meeting throughout the year progress against The current external auditors,  LLP, were this plan was reviewed.
The plan was assessed on the basis of providing appointed in 2006 and since that time the external audit has not been appropriate coverage over the internal control environment to provide the tendered formally.
Following a review of the changes to external audit committee with a balanced overview across the Group, taking into account tendering regulations and guidance issued during the year, the committee the level of risk and previous coverage.
Additional areas of review were concluded that it was appropriate to recommend the reappointment of added to the plan as required where circumstances gave rise to an increased  LLP as the Groups auditors for FY16 and then level of risk and any changes to the agreed audit plan were reviewed by the undertake a tender process for the FY17 audit.
At each meeting, except the additional January 2015 meeting, the committee considered reports from the head of internal audit on the Non-audit services results of all internal audit reviews, significant findings and progress The Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services is that the on management actions agreed from previous audits.
A review of the external auditors may only provide such services provided these do not effectiveness of internal audit was carried out during the year by way of a conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
Having considered the results of this survey services are: and a number of other factors, including the quality of reporting to the Further assurance services where the external auditors knowledge committee and impartiality of the internal auditors, the committee of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed to carry out concluded that internal audit was effective.
In February 2015, the such work.
This may include but is not restricted to shareholder and committee considered and approved internal audits audit plan for FY16 other circulars regulatory reports and work in connection with which includes an increased focus on both the Groups Financial Services acquisitions and divestments.
business and on the controls over key financial systems across the Group.
Taxation services where the external auditors knowledge of the Groups affairs may provide support to the Groups tax position.
Risk management Where this is not the case, the work is put out to tender.
The committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for considering General in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
Information services provided that proposed assignments which exceed financial on the Groups approach to internal control and risk management is set out limits set out in the policy are put out to tender and decisions to in the corporate governance section on pages 34 to 38.
In September 2014 award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and February 2015, the committee reviewed reports on the Groups risk and cost effectiveness.
management process and risk profile with particular focus on those risks classified as principal risks by management.
A summary of the principal However, certain areas of work are specifically prohibited including work risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance can be related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately found on pages 24 and 25.
The committee reviewed revised procedures in be subject to external audit and management of or significant involvement response to the changes to the Code, which apply to the Group in FY16, and in internal audit services.
The committee chairs approval is required the FRC guidance entitled Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control before the Group uses any non-audit services that exceed 50,000. and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
