Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report INTRODUCTION BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP 67 The Board is dependent on the Audit Committee to review the Richard Pennycook Chairman Groups internal financial controls, to assess the work and Mark Allen independence of the external auditor, the effectiveness of the Andrew Cripps From 1 December 2015 Internal Audit function and risk management processes, and Geoff Drabble From 3 July 2015 to ensure the integrity of financial reporting.
Tiffany Hall Michael Wemms The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up-to-date In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code information, that the Groups published financial statements and the Committees terms of reference, during the year represent a true and fair reflection of this position and for the Audit Committee consisted wholly of independent ensuring the effectiveness and rigorousness of the internal Non-Executive Directors.
Subject to successful annual control framework on behalf of the Board.
re-election to the Board, appointments to the Audit Committee are for a period of three years, which may It is has primary responsibility for: be extended by the Committee provided the Director remains independent.
Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the MEETING ATTENDANCE Groups financial performance, and reviewing significant The Committee meets at least three times a year and at financial reporting judgements contained therein although any other such time as the Chairman of the Committee the Board as a whole remains responsible for determining requires.
Only the attendance of members of this whether the Annual Reports and Accounts as a whole are committee is shown in the table below, although other fair, balanced and understandable : Directors, where appropriate, have often also attended Reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
internal control systems: Reviewing the Groups risk management processes, Attendance No.
of meetings systems and reports although the Board as a whole Richard Pennycook 3 3 remains responsible for overseeing the overall risk Mark Allen 3 3 profile of the business : Geoff Drabble 1 2 Ensuring that information flows from the senior Tiffany Hall 3 3 management and external auditors are such that the information received by the Committee is complete, Michael Wemms 3 3 accurate, timely and robust: There were no Audit Committee meetings following Andrew Making recommendations to the Board in relation to Cripps appointment on 1 December and therefore he did the appointment of the external auditor and approving not attend any meetings during the year.
the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: The Chairman of the Board, along with the Chief Executive, Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of Group Finance Director, Head of Risk and Internal Audit, the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK representatives from the Finance function and senior professional and regulatory requirements: representatives of the external auditors, are regularly Reviewing the external auditors audit risks and Audit invited to attend all or part of our meetings as and when Committee reports: appropriate.
The Audit Committee reserves the right to Developing and implementing a policy on the engagement request any non-members to withdraw from any meeting.
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the TERMS OF REFERENCE provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm: To view the Audit Committee terms of reference Reviewing the going concern report and the report on the please refer to the Companys website: longer-term viability of the business, prior to consideration www.
com by the Board: and Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
Audit Committee Report continued As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee Internal audit and control 68 has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its Following the appointment of a new Head of Risk and Internal terms of reference during the period and has ensured the Audit during the year, the Committee extended meetings in independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
order to allow additional consideration of internal audit reviews and plan.
This work included: OVERVIEW OF ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Receiving reports from the Internal Audit function on its work and monitoring the status of actions taken in Financial reporting and external audit response to its findings: During the year the Committee considered: Consideration of the controls in place to mitigate fraud risk: Receiving presentations from divisional Finance The proposed plan of work presented by the external Directors in respect of the control environment within auditors, including audit risks, terms of engagement their divisions, including an IT control update from and fees: : The Groups annual report and financial statements, the Assessing the coverage of independent assurance by half-yearly financial report published in July 2015 and the reviewing the Group assurance map: interim management statements.
As part of this review, the Committee received a report from Deloitte on their audit Reviewing business continuity management provisions: and of the Annual Report and Accounts and review of the Reviewing activity reported under the Groups half-yearly financial report which took into account the whistleblowing policy.
Groups key risks, going concern considerations and longer-term viability: Governance In order to discharge its governance duties, the Committee: The reports from the external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas Received updates from the external auditor on latest of judgement and their comments on risk and the governance practices for Audit Committees and changes in effectiveness of internal controls: statutory reporting requirements: The processes in place to generate forecasts of cash flow Was subject to an effectiveness review as part of the and accounting valuation information, including the choice Boards evaluation process: and consistent use of key assumptions.
A description of the Groups significant accounting policies can be found in note Considered the results of the BIS Cyber Governance Health 2 of the consolidated financial statements on page 83: Check Tracker Report: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial Received an update on the changes in legislation in relation controls with specific reference to controls in place on a to audit tendering: divisional basis and reviewing the disclosures made in the Reviewed the Directors conflicts of interest: and Annual Report and Accounts on this matter: Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
Whether the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
Senior management from the business were invited to discuss the financial controls in their business areas.
During 2015, An assessment of the qualification, expertise, resources, the Director of Commercial Finance and Head of Compliance and independence of the external auditor and the of the Trade division gave presentations on the control effectiveness of the audit process.
This included environments in their area.
consideration of a report on the audit firms own quality control procedures and the audit firms annual transparency As in previous years, experts from Deloitte were invited to report: and update the Committee on recent developments in the areas The risk of a possible withdrawal of the external auditors of governance, audit tendering, accounting and reporting.
All members of the Committee are members of the Deloitte Academy which provides in-depth updates on financial and The Committee also held confidential sessions with the reporting matters.
independent auditors and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit in the absence of Executive Directors and representatives from the Finance function.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Areas of significant financial judgement External Auditor 69 The Committee is responsible for the development, considered by the Audit Committee during the year implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on The Committee recognises that some areas of accounting external audit in line with relevant legislation, ethical require judgement to be exercised.
In relation to the Group, the standards and guidance.
The current policy sets out the principal areas of judgement relate to recoverability of trade categories of non-audit services which the external auditors debtors, inventory obsolescence, and actuarial assumptions.
will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject to It is the policy of the Board that a conservative approach is fide minimis levels.
The Committee is aware of the regulatory taken in all areas requiring judgement.
restrictions on non-audit services that will be applicable to Recoverability of trade debtors the Company from the financial year end 2017 and has put The Committee received updates from management on the in place transitional arrangements to take effect during 2016 ageing debtor profile, provisioning levels and the level of badin order to ensure compliance with the regulations.
They received reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk in relation to managements treatment of credit All relevant fees proposed by the external auditors must be control and the collection of outstanding debts.
The Committee reported to and approved by the Audit Committee.
also reviewed the work done by the external auditor on trade receivables to confirm both existence and recoverability.
Auditor independence and fees The Committee recognises that auditor independence is Valuation of inventory an essential part of the audit framework and the assurance The Committee reviewed the management reports used it provides.
To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the to value and confirm the existence of inventory.
They also independence of the external auditors, the Committee received reports from the external auditor on inventory in undertook a comprehensive review during 2015 considering the appropriateness of provisions held against encompassing the following: the carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age of discontinued lines and volumes of continuing lines relative to A review of the independence of the external auditors and the expected usage.
the arrangements which they have in place to identify, report and manage conflicts of interest: Actuarial assumptions Consideration of the effectiveness of the external auditors The Committee considered and approved the appropriateness through a review of their plan of work and the outputs of the actuarial valuations for the defined benefit pension arising from the audit: scheme prepared for compliance with the relevant accounting A review of the changes in key external audit staff for the and disclosure requirements and the assessment of the current year and the arrangements for the day-to-day appropriateness of the assumptions used.
The Committee management of the audit relationship.
The lead audit reviewed reports from the Pensions Sub-Committee and partner last changed in March 2012 at the end of the 2011 external auditor which considered the appropriateness of year end audit in accordance with the ethical standards: the assumptions.
Consideration of the overall extent of non-audit services All of the matters considered above were discussed with the provided by the external auditors, in addition to case-byDeputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Group case approval of the provision of non-audit services as Finance Director and the external auditor.
The Committee was appropriate: and satisfied that each of the matters set out above have been Deliberation of the likelihood of a withdrawal of the fully and adequately addressed by the Executive Committee, auditor from the market and note taken of the fact that appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice the disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts of external auditors.
Audit Committee Report continued To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, Policy for non-audit services 70 the Committee reviewed: The main aims of this Policy are to ensure the independence of the auditors in performing the statutory audit and to avoid any The arrangements for ensuring the external auditors conflict of interest by clearly detailing the types of work that independence and objectivity: the auditors can and cannot undertake.
The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan The policy specifies the type of non-audit work for which and any variations from the plan: the auditors can be engaged without referral to the Audit The perceptions of the auditor and audit process from key Committee for which a case-by-case decision is necessary or management personnel in the finance function: from which the auditors are excluded.
The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and The policy aims to ensure that in providing non-audit services The content of the external auditors report on the auditors do not audit their own work or make management internal control.
decisions for the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Policy also clarifies responsibilities for the agreement of fees payable At the year end, the external auditor formally confirmed that for non-audit work.
their independence and objectivity had been maintained.
The Audit Committee also has a policy in relation to the Details of Deloitte LLPs fees for audit and non-audit work employment of former members of the external audit team.
during 2015 are set out below and are included in note 6 to the financial statements on page 90.
No services were Audit tender provided by the external auditor pursuant to contingent fee Following the completion of the 2015 audit, the Audit arrangements.
Given the specific nature of the fees incurred, Committee considered whether it was in the best interests and having reviewed the safeguards Deloitte LLP has in of the Company to re-tender the external audit at the end of place to protect their independence as auditors, the the current lead audit partner rotation cycle.
The current lead Committee was satisfied the non-audit work has not audit partner, Ed Hanson, has completed four years of a five impaired their independence.
The external audit was last tendered in 2002 which resulted in a change to the Groups external auditor, with 2015 2014 Deloitte LLP being appointed.
000 000 Audit Fees 383 383 In reaching its conclusion, the Committee considered the Non-Audit Fees 224 325 transitional arrangements for mandatory audit tendering and auditor rotation published by the Department for Business, Ratio 58% 89% Innovation and Skills in March 2015 which provided that the Company could not enter into or renew its engagement for audit services with Deloitte LLP beyond June 2023, having been engaged as external auditor for over eleven but for less than twenty years.
The Committee was also mindful of the provisions relating to audit tendering in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years and that audit tendering should normally fit the five-year cycle of lead audit partner rotation.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 After careful consideration, and in compliance with the During the year, the Committee considered the effectiveness 71 Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market of the Internal Audit function and the Internal Audit threeInvestigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes year plan.
The Committee concluded that the function and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the CMA remained effective, well-led and had a well-defined remit.
An Order, the Audit Committee determined that it was not in the independent review of the Internal Audit function was last best interests of the Company to re-tender the external audit undertaken by  in 2012.
An external at the end of the current lead audit partner cycle on the basis review of this function is conducted every five years.
that there remained sufficient auditor independence and effectiveness to ensure a robust audit process and it The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements would provide the continuity of the external auditor during for employees to have access to a confidential outsourced the handover of the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee service, which allows calls and emails to be received in during 2016. multiple languages, 24 hours a day.
Complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related Therefore the Committee concluded that the Company would matters are reported to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
re-tender the external audit and change auditor no later than Issues raised and investigated under this policy were formally the conclusion of the subsequent five-year lead audit partner reviewed during the year.
However, the Committee agreed to keep the need to re-tender and change auditor under review during COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP this cycle.
Committee Chairman The Chairman of the Audit Committee is responsible for The Committee has therefore unanimously recommended to determining the Committees agenda and for maintaining the the Board that a proposal be put to the shareholders at the key relationships between the Groups senior management, Annual General Meeting that Deloitte LLP be reappointed as Head of Risk and Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and external auditor in 2016 and that the Directors be authorised senior representatives of the external auditor.
To that end, to fix their remuneration.
he is also responsible for ensuring that key audit issues are reported to the Board in an effective and timely manner and INTERNAL AUDIT that they are reported to shareholders via this report.
The Committee also helps the Board to fulfil of its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing Richard Pennycook was Chairman of the Committee and plans of the Internal Audit department.
During the year, throughout the year.
Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of we reviewed: Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
He is currently the Group CEO of The Cooperative Group and was a Finance Internal Audits programme of work and progress made Director for over 20 years, most of that time as a Public against planned activity: Company Finance Director.
Richard is also Chairman of the Audit Committee at Persimmon PLC, the FTSE 100 house Results of key audits and other significant findings including builder.
As such, the Board considers that he had the requisite the adequacy and timeliness of managements response: recent and relevant financial experience during the year to The level and nature of assurance activity performed by satisfy Provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Internal Audit: and Staffing, reporting and effectiveness of divisional audits.
Audit Committee Report continued Membership 72 Committee membership and effectiveness is reviewed as part of the annual review of Board effectiveness.
In addition, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness by completing an Audit Committee effectiveness tool.
The review encompassed a mix of qualitative and regulatory considerations as well as reviewing Committee structure, responsibilities and reporting.
Both reviews concluded that the current mix of financial and commercial experience of the Audit Committee, and that of its advisors, is such that the Committee can effectively exercise its responsibilities to the Group in relation to risk and controls.
The Committee is permitted by its terms of reference to obtain independent external advice at the Groups expense.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2016 The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet at least three times during 2016 in conjunction with the annual reporting cycle.
It will continue to consider all of the matters set out above for which it has primary responsibility in relation to financial statements, reporting and controls, the work of the external auditor and the Internal Audit function.
It will continue to consider the Companys governance arrangements and review the Committees terms of reference.
Andrew Cripps will become Chairman of the Audit Committee in May 2016.
By order of the Board Richard Pennycook Audit Committee Chairman 24 February 2016
