Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the 2012 The Board is led by the Chairman, Barry Gibson.
The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Company has applied the principles set out defined in a written specification agreed by the Board and which makes clear the division of in the Code and has complied with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the year.
An responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
They include the smooth running explanation of how the Code has been applied is set out here, in the Audit & Risk Committee of the Board, effective communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the report and in the Remuneration report.
general progress and long-term development of the Group.
The Board During the year, in addition to the Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which are Messrs Chippendale, Mingay and Morris and Mrs David with extensive business, finance and available on request.
The Articles of Association may be changed by special resolution.
The marketing backgrounds, provided the Board with a breadth of experience and with independent Directors also have responsibilities and duties under other legislation and in particular, the judgement.
Ian Chippendale served as the Companys independent Senior Non-Executive Companies Act 2006.
The Board has a Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it for decision and has approved In accordance with the provisions of the Code, each Director is subject to election by the the written terms of reference of the various committees to which it has delegated its authority Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board include: appointment, and is subject to re-election every year thereafter.
the recommendation or approval of dividends the approval of preliminary and interim financial statements Short biographies of each of the Directors including their membership of committees may be the approval of major financial commitments found on the previous pages.
the acquisition of significant companies or businesses appointments to the Board and its Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company and the options held as the Companys future strategy at 31 March 2015 and 19 May 2015 are set out in the Remuneration report.
None of the Directors the Companys internal controls.
serving at the year-end had a beneficial interest in the share capital of any subsidiary company.
The full schedule is available on our website.
Succession planning There is a clear need to ensure that there is an appropriate pool of talented and capable Board composition individuals to fill senior roles and a succession planning process is well established across the The Board is made up of a balance of Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive Group to facilitate this.
Each business and corporate function prepares and maintains succession Directors.
plans with the support of local and Group HR and with input from the Group Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee reviews the plans in detail twice a year and the Board reviews the high The Directors who held office during the year were: level plan at least annually.
John Michael Barry Gibson Richard David Harpin The identification and development of our people remains a key focus across the Group.
Martin John Bennett Johnathan Richard Ford Diversity Ian Chippendale resigned 31 March 2015 The Board is committed to ensuring that it is appropriately diverse.
It is supportive of the Stella Julie David aspiration of the Davies Report to promote greater female representation on corporate boards.
Benjamin Edward Mingay Although no target has been set in respect of the percentage of women on the Board, when Mark Christopher Morris seeking to recruit for Board positions we ensure that long lists include women candidates.
