Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Directors Directors 1 3 4 1 2 3 4 JM Barry Gibson 63 Mark Morris 55 Appointed to the Board in April 2004 and Appointed to the Board in February 2009 and as appointed as Chairman on 1 April 2010 following Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2015. a year as Senior Non-Executive Director.
Also Previously in audit, business advisory and Senior Independent Director of bwin party digital corporate finance with Price Waterhouse before entertainment plc.
Previously Group Retailing joining Sytner Group plc as Finance Director, later Director at BAA plc, Group Chief Executive of becoming Managing Director.
Currently a NonLittlewoods plc and Non-Executive Director of Executive Director of LSL Property Services plc and Somerfield plc, National Express plc, William Hill plc, Chairman of Motorpoint Ltd. SSP Group Ltd and Non-Executive Chairman 1 2 3 4 Ben Mingay 50 of Harding Brothers Holdings Ltd.
Appointed to the Board in January 2012.
Currently Richard Harpin 50 Managing Partner of Smith Square Partners, an Founder and Chief Executive Officer of HomeServe independent corporate finance advisory firm.
which was set up in 1993 as a joint venture with He has more than twenty years experience as a South Staffordshire Group.
Appointed to the Board in corporate finance adviser and, prior to co-founding May 2001.
Previously a brand manager with Procter Smith Square Partners, he was a Managing Director & Gamble, followed by management consultancy of Hawkpoint Partners Ltd and Credit Suisse First with Deloitte and his own company.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of AIM-listed Alternative Networks plc.
Martin Bennett 46 1 3 4 Appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the UK Stella David 52 business in January 2014, following two years as Appointed to the Board in November 2010.
Currently Group Chief Operating Officer and three years as Chief Executive Officer of William Grant & Sons Group Chief Financial Officer.
Previously Finance having joined them in 2009 following more than Director of the UK business, having been Finance fifteen years with Bacardi Ltd where she undertook a Director of the Warranties business and Commercial number of roles culminating in four years as Global Director.
Prior to joining HomeServe in 2003, he Chief Marketing Officer.
Currently a Non-Executive spent three years as Group Finance Director of Director of C&J Clark Limited, she also spent seven Clarity Group and ten years at Arthur Andersen years as a Non-Executive Director at Nationwide where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
Johnathan Ford 45 Anna Maughan 45 Appointed as Chief Financial Officer in September Appointed Company Secretary in July 2008 following 2012.
Also a Non-Executive Director of Lakehouse twelve years as Assistant Company Secretary.
Also a plc where he chairs the Audit Committee.
Previously Trustee of, and Secretary to, the industry wide Water the Group Finance Director of NWF Group plc, an Companies Pension Scheme.
AIM listed specialist agricultural and distribution 5 group.
Prior to joining NWF in March 2009, he H Stephen Philips 48 spent four years at HomeServe, firstly as Group Appointed as CEO of Reparalia in March 2010 having Commercial Director and later as Finance Director joined HomeServe in 2005 as Country Manager in of the Emergency Services Division.
He is a licensed insurance broker and is a HomeServe he was Head of Corporate Finance at Non-Executive Director of Assured Enterprises Inc. Kidde plc.
Prior to joining HomeServe, he spent 12 years in senior business development, sales, and marketing 5 Tom Rusin 46 roles in Diversified Business Communications S. A.
Appointed as Chief Executive Officer, HomeServe and E. J. Krause fide Mxico, working across the USA USA in July 2011.
Previously at Affinion Group where and Latin America.
he undertook a number of roles culminating in Key: three years as President and Chief Executive Officer 1 Non-Executive of Affinion Groups North American Division from 2 Audit Committee Chairman: Mark Morris 3 2007 to 2010.
Before joining Affinion, he owned Just Nomination Committee Chairman: Barry Gibson 4 Remuneration Committee Chairman: Stella David for Travel Inc.
He was previously a Non-Executive 5 Member of Executive Committee only Director of The Ambassadors Group.
