Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE BOARD MEMBERSHIP 41 The Company remains committed to the principles of Will Samuel Chairman corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Mark Allen Governance Code the Code for which the Board is Andrew Cripps From 1 December 2015 accountable to shareholders.
Geoff Drabble From 3 July 2015 Tiffany Hall Throughout the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015, the Matthew Ingle Company has been in compliance with the provisions, Richard Pennycook including the main and supporting principles, as set out in Mark Robson the Code applicable to accounting periods commencing on Michael Wemms or after 1 October 2014.
1.2 of the UK Corporate It should be noted that from November 2015, Michael Wemms Governance Code, at least half of the Directors were has served as Non-Executive Director for more than nine years.
The Board are aware of Code Provision B.
1.1 which provides that tenure in excess of nine years is one factor boards should MEETING ATTENDANCE consider when determining whether a non-executive director is The Board held regular meetings during 2015 and received independent.
However, following a recommendation from the accurate and timely information.
Only the attendance of Nominations Committee, the Board are satisfied that Michael Directors is shown in the table below, although members remains independent in both character and judgement.
of the Executive Committee have also attended at the The Board will keep the independence of all Non-Executive invitation of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
of meetings Examples of how the main and supporting principles have been applied are set out below and in the Remuneration Will Samuel 7 7 report and Committee reports.
Mark Allen 7 7 Geoff Drabble 3 3 Tiffany Hall 7 7 Matthew Ingle 7 7 Richard Pennycook 7 7 Mark Robson 7 7 Michael Wemms 7 7 This table and the attendance tables in the Committee reports show the number of meetings individual Directors could have attended taking account of eligibility, appointment and retirement dates during the year and their actual attendance.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting, they are nevertheless provided with all the papers and information relating to the meeting and are encouraged to discuss the issues arising directly with the Chairman and Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors also met twice during the year without the Executive Directors present.
There were no Board meetings following Andrew Cripps appointment on 1 December and therefore he did not attend any meetings during the year.
Corporate Governance Report continued INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN 42 Board composition The continuing success of Howdens business is dependent The Board is structured to ensure that there is a clear on its ability to sustain its strong and distinctive culture, which distinction between the strategic functions of the Board and from the outset has been based on personal accountability the operational management of the Company.
The Board and respect for the individual.
currently comprises two Executive Directors, the Chairman and six Non-Executive Directors.
Details of the individual Directors Our corporate governance framework is designed to can be found on pages 36 to 38. safeguard the interests of shareholders and to help ensure the successful development of the business over the longWill Samuel was the Non-Executive Chairman during the term.
With these objectives in mind, the Board is committed whole period.
As announced on 2 December, having served to upholding the highest standards of corporate governance as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company since 2006, Will and making sure that the procedures and practices of Samuel will step down from the Board from the Annual General the business continue to be fair, appropriate, effective Meeting in May 2016 and Richard Pennycook will assume the and compliant with both the spirit and the letter of the UK role of Non-Executive Chairman from that date.
An overview of Corporate Governance Code.
the Chairman succession process can be found on page 74 of the Nominations Committee report.
The Board considers that THE BOARD Richard Pennycook will be independent upon his appointment Role as Chairman.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the Executive Directors provisions of the Articles of Association, the Companies Act Matthew Ingle and Mark Robson continued in their respective and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
roles throughout the year as Chief Executive and Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Mr Ingle was appointed The Board has responsibility for the overall management and to the Board in 1998: Mr Robson in 2005. performance of the Group.
They are collectively responsible for challenging and assisting in the development of strategy and Non-Executive Directors ensuring that there are sufficient resources in place to meet The Non-Executive Directors have been selected for the the strategic objectives which have been set.
diversity of their backgrounds as well as their personal attributes and experience.
The current Board members bring The Board is also responsible for determining the nature a wide range of skills and experience to the Board and all and extent of significant risks and maintaining sound risk actively contribute in discussion.
management and internal control procedures throughout the Group.
The Board considered that the following Directors were deemed to be independent during the period: The Board reviews the performance of and provides counsel to the senior management in their day-to-day running of the Mark Allen business, and is ultimately responsible for the safeguarding Andrew Cripps of shareholders interests and ensuring its own effectiveness.
Geoff Drabble The Board is also responsible for protecting the culture and values of the business, a role particularly pertinent Tiffany Hall to Howdens where integrity, respect and recognition are Richard Pennycook fundamental tenets of the business.
Michael Wemms Senior Independent Director Decisions reserved for consideration by the Board are The Chairman, Will Samuel, was considered to be independent detailed in a schedule which is reviewed annually and was last on appointment as outlined in the Code.
reviewed and approved in January 2016.
These key matters include decisions about strategy, acquisition and disposals, The Board is proposing that all of the Directors, with the risk management and internal control, capital projects over a exception of Will Samuel who will stand down, will be subject to defined level, annual budgets, Group borrowing facilities and election or re-election at the 2016 AGM dependent on whether consideration of significant financial and operational matters.
they were appointed prior to or after the 2015 AGM.
The Board also considers legislative, environmental, health & safety, governance and employment issues.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Company Secretary 43 In accordance with the Code, the Board has established The Company Secretary provides the Board with guidance Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, each on various governance matters, under the direction of the with defined terms of reference.
The membership of the Chairman, and ensures that effective and timely information Committees and their terms of reference are reviewed flows between the Board and the Senior Management as well annually and are available on the Groups website, www.
as within the Board and between the Boards Committees.
The work of each of the All of the Directors have direct and unfettered access to the Committees is considered in individual reports below.
The Group has an Executive Committee comprising those There is a formal procedure to allow all Directors to take members detailed on page 135.
The principal purpose of independent, external advice if and when necessary at the the Committee, which meets at least twice a month, or more Companys expense.
In addition, working with the Chairman, frequently if required, is the implementation of the Groups the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board strategy and operational plans.
The Committee monitors the procedures are followed and that all Directors have access to operational and financial performance of the business, as well his advice and services.
as being responsible for the optimisation of resources and the identification and control of operational risk within the Group.
Executive development and succession Executive succession and development are matters reserved The Board has also established a Pensions Committee dealing for the Board.
During the year the Board received two with matters associated with the Groups pension scheme and presentations from the Group HR Director on the succession a Disclosure Committee which considers matters which could and development of Howdens senior management, which give rise to an obligation to make a market announcement included members of the Executive Committee.
In addition, under the FCA Listing Rules.
the Directors received organisational development updates as part of the standard Board reports.
Directors indemnity & insurance In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company There were three appointments to the Executive Committee has provided indemnities to the Directors to the extent during 2015.
Gareth Hopkins was appointed interim HR permitted by the Companies Act in respect of liabilities Director in April 2015.
Gareth had previously worked in the incurred as a result of their office.
In addition, the Company business as a HR consultant for 15 months and was previously maintains appropriate insurance cover against legal action Group HR Director at Dairy Crest Group plc and Whitworths.
brought against it or its subsidiaries, Directors and Officers.
Kevin Barrett was appointed as Group Development Director Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the in September 2015.
Prior to joining Howdens, Kevin spent 10 event that the Director is proved to have acted dishonestly or years at Sainsburys where he held a variety of roles including fraudulently.
At the end of 2015, Clive Cockburn was appointed Chief Information Officer, replacing David Hallett who Conflicts of interest stood down after 10 years in the role.
Clive joined Howdens in The Companies Act 2006 places a duty upon Directors to 2002 as Head of IT Infrastructure and Service Delivery.
ensure that they do not, without the Companys prior consent, place themselves in a position where there is a conflict, or Division of responsibilities possible conflict, between the duties they owe the Company The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and and either their personal interests or other duties they owe to clearly defined.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for a third party.
leadership of the Board and has a pivotal role in creating the conditions for individual Director and Board effectiveness If any Director becomes aware that they, or any party including ensuring a culture of openness and debate in connected to them, have an interest in an existing or proposed the boardroom.
The Chairman is responsible for setting transaction with the Company, they must notify the Board as the Boards agenda and works closely with the Company soon as practicable.
The Board has the authority to authorise Secretary in this regard.
He ensures that adequate time for a conflict if it is determined that to do so would be in the best discussion is afforded to all agenda items at meetings.
It is interests of the Company.
also the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure effective communication with the shareholders.
The Executive Directors are responsible for satisfactory execution of the policies and strategy agreed by the Board.
Corporate Governance Report continued Board evaluation 44 Both of the Executive Directors, the Chairman, the In line with its stated policy of externally facilitating the Board Remuneration Committee Chairman and a number of Nonevaluation process every three years in line with Provision Executive Directors met with shareholders during the year and B.
6.2 of the Code, the Board agreed that the 2015 evaluation all of the Directors make themselves available for meetings would be undertaken by the Senior Independent Director, with with shareholders as required.
support from the Company Secretary.
The evaluation was undertaken following the September Board meeting and was The Companys corporate website, conducted within a methodology previously agreed with the www.
This comprised a series of interviews with all Board investor relations section and provides an effective channel members and focused on the following areas: for communication with existing and potential investors.
The Board receives regular reports from the Deputy Chief the size, balance and dynamics of the Board: Executive and Chief Financial Officer with regard to relations an overview of protocol, debate and decision-making with the major shareholders and developments and changes at Board and Committee meetings: in their shareholdings.
The Board also commissions regular the performance of individual Directors, including feedback reports from the Companys joint brokers, UBS the Chairman: and Numis.
the Chairman succession process and Non-Executive Director rotation: Substantial shareholdings organisational succession and development at Board As at 24 February 2016, the Company had been notified in and senior management level: accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the the Boards approach to strategy and to risk governance: Company: the oversight by the Board of financial and operational performance, and of the issues around resources, people, % of Date of last behaviour and culture: Shareholder voting rights notification company secretarial support and Board information: and BlackRock, Inc 9.99 Feb 2014 shareholder focus.
Standard Life Investments Limited 6.99 Nov 2015 FMR LLC Fidelity The evaluation report was presented to the Board by the Management and Research 5.07 Oct 2015 Senior Independent Director in January 2016 and the Board accepted its findings.
Further to the review, the Chairman Jupiter Asset Management Limited 4.55 Nov 2014 and Company Secretary began to implement a number of Legal and General Group Plc 3.97 July 2013 recommendations to better facilitate and safeguard effective behaviours at Board level.
The percentage interest is as stated by the shareholder at the time of notification and current interests may vary.
The 2016 Board evaluation exercise will be undertaken by an external facilitator.
Annual General Meeting The 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM is to be held at UBS SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE CAPITAL Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP on Relations with shareholders 5 May 2016 at 11:00am.
The Board considers its relationship with both institutional and private investors to be important and readily enters into The AGM provides shareholders with an opportunity to discuss dialogue with investors.
On behalf of the Board, the Company the Groups progress and operations directly with the Board.
At has consulted extensively with its principal shareholders the AGM, the Company proposes separate resolutions on each during the course of 2015 in relation to the ongoing progress substantially separate issue and the numbers of proxy votes of the Company and also in relation to identifying appropriate cast for and against each resolution are made available to executive incentive arrangements.
The Company is aware of shareholders when voting has been completed.
The notice of the stewardship obligations of institutional investors as set out the AGM is sent to shareholders at least twenty-one clear days in the UK Stewardship Code and will continue to work with its before the meeting.
institutional investors to ensure that they are able to satisfy these requirements.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue Should such consent not be forthcoming, a change of control 45 in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will would trigger a mandatory repayment of the entire facility.
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of when the The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company will next re-tender the audit can be found on Company and its Directors or employees that provide for pages 70 to 71 of the Audit Committee Report.
compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Share capital Details of the issued share capital, together with details Acquisition of the Companys own shares of the movements in the Companys issued share capital As at 26 December 2015, the Directors had authority under during the year, are shown in note 22.
The Company has one the shareholders resolutions of 6 May 2015 to purchase class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
through the market 65,158,082 of the Companys ordinary Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings shares at prices ranging between 10p and the higher of of the Company.
a 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor Daily Official List for the five business days immediately on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed by the preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest of the shareholders.
current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System.
The authority The Directors are not aware of any agreements between expires at the conclusion of the next AGM or within 18 months holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions from the date of passing.
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Directors and their interests Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 25.
Details of the Directors in office on 26 December 2015 are Shares held by the Howden Joinery Group Plc Employee Share shown on pages 36 to 38.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares EMPLOYEES are fully paid.
The average number of employees and their remuneration are shown in note 7 to the financial statements.
As at 26 December 2015, the Company held 9,152,000 ordinary shares in Treasury following the commencement of At the year end, the Group had 8,271 employees 2014: 7,506 the on-market share repurchase programme in 2015.
These throughout the United Kingdom and overseas and strives to shares have no voting rights and will be used solely for the engage its employees wherever possible in its business goals satisfaction of employee share awards.
by means of regular regional and local staff meetings.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter The Board remains committed to linking reward to business or terminate upon a change of control such as commercial budgets and targets, thereby giving employees the opportunity contracts, bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
to share in the financial success of the Group.
In keeping with The only one of these which is considered to be significant in the structure of the business, the Company is committed to terms of likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole applying this policy locally and, as a result, staff of all levels is the bank facility as described in note 19, which requires regularly benefit from achieving local targets throughout majority lender consent for any change of control.
The Board also recognises employees for their contribution through the use of employee incentive plans and share plans within overall remuneration.
Corporate Governance Report continued RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL Internal control 46 The Group has an established framework of internal controls, The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal which includes the following key elements: control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The Board reviews Group strategy, and the executive management are accountable for performance within the Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather than agreed strategy.
eliminate the risks of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide The Group and its subsidiaries operate control procedures reasonable assurance against misstatement or loss.
The UK designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting of Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Board financial transactions and to limit exposure to loss of assets reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal or fraud.
controls at least annually, including financial, operational and The Audit Committee meets regularly and its compliance controls, and risk management.
responsibilities are set out in the Audit Committee Report.
It receives reports from the Internal Audit function on the The Board has conducted reviews of the effectiveness of the results of work carried out under an annually agreed audit system of internal controls through the processes described programme.
The Audit Committee has full and unfettered within the principal risks and uncertainties section of the access to the internal and external auditors.
Strategic Report on pages 19 and 20 and are satisfied that it The Internal Audit function facilitates a process whereby accords both with the Code and with the Turnbull Guidance.
operating entities provide certified statements of The Board has not identified or been advised of any failings compliance with specified and appropriate key financial or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant: controls.
These controls are then cyclically tested by therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions Internal Audit to ensure they remain effective, and are being has not been considered appropriate.
The Audit Committee will annually assess the effectiveness Risk management of the assurance provided by the internal and external The Groups risk assessment process and the way in which auditors.
Every five years, an external assessment is significant business risks are managed is a key area of focus undertaken with regard to the assurance provided by the for the Board.
The Groups assessment of the principal risks Internal Audit department.
An external review was last and uncertainties, as described within the Strategic Report on undertaken by  in 2012. pages 19 to 22, outlines the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board can confirm that it has conducted a robust By order of the Board assessment of the principal risks and identified two additional risks that they consider to be principal.
These have therefore been disclosed as part of the principal risks disclosure in line Will Samuel with the 2014 Corporate Governance Code.
