Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Internal controls The consolidated accounts are reviewed by the Executive Directors and verified by the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing finance team.
The accounts are then considered by the Audit & Risk Committee which makes its effectiveness.
The Audit & Risk Committee has a key role to play in overseeing internal a recommendation in respect of their approval to the Board.
The Board then reviews and controls and advising the Board thereon.
More detail in respect of the role of the Audit & Risk approves the accounts prior to the announcement of the half year and annual results.
Committee is provided in the report of that committee.
At the end of the year, the Executive Directors compile a report identifying the key risks faced by the Group.
This report is considered by the Audit & Risk Committee and by the Board The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company to the Group Chief before the Annual Report and Accounts is approved.
Executive and the other Executive Directors.
The system of internal control is designed to The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function and a formal audit plan is in place to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and address the key risks across the Group.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
A whistle blowing policy allows employees, franchisees and sub-contractors who wish to The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing raise any issues of concern relating to the Groups activities to do so on a confidential basis the risks faced by the Company.
This has been in place for the year under review and up to the by contacting an external hotline.
date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the A mechanism exists to extend the Groups formal risk management processes to any Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The key elements of the control framework and significant new business acquired or established immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
review processes in place across the Group are as follows: In this way, the Board is able to confirm that the necessary process has been operated by The Groups strategy is set by the Board and five year business plans, annual budgets and the Group for the whole of the year.
investment proposals for each business are formally prepared, reviewed and approved by the Board.
As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board, supported by the Audit & Risk Committee, The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, managing and carries out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
reporting on operational and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses.
Risks are reviewed in detail at local risk committees and, on an overall basis, by the Group Risk By Order of the Board Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
JM Barry Gibson The Group Risk Committee meets quarterly and reviews a register summarising the Chairman significant risks faced by the businesses or the Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks 19 May 2015 occurring and the steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks.
Quarterly updates are provided to the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee meets four times a year and reviews the risk register in order to advise the Board on current risk exposures and future risk strategy.
More detail is provided in the report of the Audit & Risk Committee.
A clearly defined organisation structure is in place with clear lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits for individual managers and for local Boards of management, with all material transactions being approved by the Board.
Regular telephone meetings of the Executive Committee monitor day to day performance, and full Executive Committee meetings are held at least eight times a year at which the Directors report on the progress of the companies or discipline for which they are responsible and share best practice.
Consolidated financial results, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with variances being identified and understood so that mitigating actions can be implemented, where appropriate.
