Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board also believes that a diversity of experience and psychological profile is important Board development around the board table.
We seek to ensure that there is a balance of skills and experience and in The Board actively encourages all Directors to deepen their knowledge of their roles and respect of non-executive positions, we ensure that candidates from a wider pool are considered, responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding of the Group and the environment in which including those with little or no listed company board experience.
it operates and has adopted a formal policy on the induction and training of Directors.
Newly appointed Board members are required to undergo an induction programme, which includes Board meetings obtaining a thorough understanding of the Groups various operations, and they have the Up to ten regular meetings are held each year to review and monitor current and forecast opportunity to receive formal training from external providers if they wish.
During the year, the performance.
Regular reports on monthly performance and other matters of importance to Non-Executive Directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams the Group ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with the information necessary and external advisers.
In addition, the Board has an annual strategy meeting, also attended by senior operational management, to devise and discuss the Companys medium Board evaluation and long-term strategic focus and management development strategy.
The Board has implemented a formal process for reviewing its own effectiveness, that of its Remuneration and Audit & Risk committees and its individual members.
In addition, it continued Regular formal and informal presentations are given and meetings held in order to inform to ensure that regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors were held without the Executive Directors of issues of importance affecting the Group.
Occasionally, meetings of the Board Directors, and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his are held at the Companys operating sites other than Walsall, in order to afford the Board, performance.
particularly the Non-Executive Directors, the opportunity to meet with local management.
An external Board evaluation process was completed during FY15 by Lintstock Limited.
Directors Attendance at meetings completed evaluation questionnaires and these were followed up by individual interviews with All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant committee meetings.
Details of Lintstock who then compiled a formal written report summarising the Directors views and attendance by Directors at meetings during the year are set out in the table below.
Directors containing recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the Board further.
This report was who were unable to attend specific meetings reviewed the relevant papers and provided their discussed by the Board in March 2015. comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
Any Director who misses a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the minutes of that meeting for reference.
The Board concluded that it was operating effectively, although it was agreed that it could be more efficient in the use of its time.
To this end, the number of board meetings will be Audit & Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee reduced to eight and the number of Audit & Risk Committee meetings will be reduced to three.
Number of meetings held 10 4 4 Management have been encouraged to ensure that all papers presented to the Board are Meetings attended appropriate in respect of their length and focus.
R D Harpin 10 M J Bennett 10 Committees J Ford 10 The Board operates a number of committees to which it has delegated certain specific J M B Gibson 10 4 responsibilities, each of which has formally adopted terms of reference.
These comprise the I Chippendale 9 4 3 Nomination, Audit & Risk and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference of each of S David 10 4 the Boards committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and are on B Mingay 10 4 the Companys website.
The membership and activities of the Audit & Risk Committee and M Morris 9 3 3 Remuneration Committee are detailed in the reports of those committees.
