Home Retail Group 34 Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance Chairmans introduction For the period under review, Home Retail Group plc has complied fully with the main and supporting principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code.
This statement, together with the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, provide a summary of the Groups procedures for applying the principles of the Code and the extent to which such principles have been applied.
The role and effectiveness of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the governance and long-term The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group by creating success of the Group.
Effective governance is essential to the creation and delivering sustainable shareholder value.
The Board seeks to achieve of an environment in which innovation and performance can flourish this through approving the Groups strategic aims, monitoring and deliver success.
In this corporate governance section, my aim is to performance against strategic objectives and providing oversight of the provide insight into how the Board fulfils its stewardship responsibilities.
implementation of plans by management.
By monitoring its strategy and Against the background of a volatile and unpredictable economic management of risk, the Board considers the impact of decisions on wider environment which is beginning to improve, a considerable amount stakeholders, including employees, the pension scheme trustee, suppliers of change is taking place in our business.
Having approved the Groups and the environment.
strategic aims, the Board has a key oversight role to play in monitoring The Board consists of the Chairman, John Coombe: Chief Executive, performance and the management of risk.
To perform this role well, John Walden: Finance Director, Richard Ashton: and four non-executive the Board needs to reflect the right balance of skills, experience, directors: Mike Darcey the Senior Independent Director, Ian Durant, independence and knowledge.
In addition, individual board members Cath Keers and Jacqueline fide Rojas.
John Walden succeeded Terry Duddy must be prepared to devote the time that is required to keep pace as Chief Executive on 14 March 2014. with developments in the business, understand how the business is In order for any board to discharge its duties and responsibilities performing against its strategic objectives and how risks are being effectively, it must comprise the right balance of skills, experience and managed and opportunities are being addressed.
Much of this activity knowledge ideally gained in a diverse range of backgrounds.
In addition, takes place outside the boardroom, in meetings with members of senior directors must exhibit independence of mind, integrity and the courage management and informal dinners for Board members to discuss to challenge constructively when appropriate.
To be effective the Board must also foster a John Coombe, appointed to the Board in 2006 and as Chairman in culture of openness, challenge and debate with senior management, 2012, has an in-depth understanding of the Group and its businesses supported by constructive relations between executive and and exceptional experience at board level of listed companies in a non-executive directors.
I am grateful to my Board colleagues and senior range of industries and as a former member of the UK Accounting management for their commitment to this culture and engagement.
Last year we made a number of changes to our annual report taking Mike Darcey, appointed in 2010, has worked across many industries, into account new disclosure and reporting requirements.
I support the including telecommunications and entertainment, and has wideFinancial Reporting Councils FRC continuing encouragement for clear ranging experience of media and digital technology.
and concise reporting by companies.
We receive feedback from our Ian Durant, appointed in 2011, has strong financial and accounting shareholders and investors on the information we provide and we will experience combined with extensive knowledge of the retail sector continue to listen to this feedback.
Last years Remuneration Report and property investment and development.
was well received by our shareholders and so we have adopted a similar Cath Keers, appointed in 2011, has significant marketing and business approach to our report this year.
While we continue to report against development experience, with particular emphasis on mobile the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has considered the applications and e-commerce.
changes introduced in the 2014 revision.
Our risk management process Jacqueline fide Rojas, appointed in 2012, has worked extensively has been reviewed and we will be undertaking a tender process for our in the digital sector and has wide-ranging experience in software external auditors in time for the FY17 audit.
Encouraging diversity and inclusion within the organisation is an essential driver of long-term, sustainable success.
Such an approach results in an improved ability to attract, recruit, retain and develop the best talent, enabling creativity and innovation and helping us to understand and serve our customers better.
In this corporate governance section on page 36 and in the Nomination Committee report on page 39, we provide information on gender diversity across all levels of our organisation.
We will continue to focus on how we can move forward in this important area.
John Coombe Chairman Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 35 In fulfilling his responsibilities, the Chief Executive is supported by the The non-executive directors are determined by the Board to be Group Executive Board, which includes the Finance Director, managing independent and there are no relationships or circumstances which directors and directors of the shared-service functions.
could affect, or appear to affect, a non-executive directors judgement.
The Board has a programme of scheduled meetings and telephone The Group has in place formal procedures regarding conflicts of interest, conferences each year and meets more frequently as required.
During the which are reviewed on an annual basis.
period under review, the Chairman met with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present and arrangements are in place There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the for regular informal meetings with the non-executive directors.
met informally the evening before most scheduled Board meetings and members of the Group Executive Board were invited to join these The Chairmans responsibilities include: discussions on a regular basis and to provide updates on their areas providing leadership for and ensuring the effective operation of the Board in conformity with the highest standards of corporate of responsibility.
governance: A number of informal meetings took place during the year to provide supporting the Chief Executive in the development of strategy: non-executive directors with the opportunity to provide input on the promoting and facilitating effective relationships and development of strategy and to monitor progress on strategic initiatives.
communications between non-executive and executive directors In addition, the Board held a full-day meeting offsite to discuss strategy and members of senior management: with members of the senior management teams of Argos, Homebase ensuring effective communication with the Groups stakeholders, and Financial Services.
including shareholders: and Arrangements to ensure that the non-executive directors are fully chairing the Nomination Committee and building an effective and informed about the business are kept under review.
Upon appointment, complementary Board, initiating change and planning succession non-executive directors undertake a full induction programme, meeting on both Board and senior management appointments.
the management team and visiting stores, distribution centres and contact centres across the United Kingdom.
Board members continue to spend The Chief Executives responsibilities include: time seeing the business in operation, hearing the views of colleagues from developing the strategy of the Group in conjunction with the Chairman across the business, attending management conferences and monitoring and the Board and being responsible to the Board for the performance developments both in the market and with the Groups competitors.
of the business, consistent with agreed plans, strategies and policies: Each of the non-executive directors serves on the three main Board developing and maintaining an effective framework of internal committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination.
This not only controls over risk in relation to all business activities: facilitates the provision of information to the Board and better leading the Group Executive Board and senior management team communication, but it also enables Board members to have direct in the day-to-day running of the business: involvement in the key areas of governance and to take full account ensuring that robust management succession and management of the relationships between the activities of these committees.
development plans are in place: and ensuring that financial results, business strategies and, where appropriate, targets and milestones are communicated to the investment community.
Board Strategic leadership Monitoring of performance against strategic objectives Monitoring management of risk Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The committee supports the Board in carrying The committee is responsible for making The committees focus is on strengthening, out its responsibilities in relation to financial recommendations to the Board on balancing and understanding the range of reporting, risk management and assessing remuneration policy for executive directors skills, experience and diversity of the Board internal controls.
It oversees internal audit and other members of the Group Executive and key roles below Board level.
It is responsible and the relationship with the external auditor, Board as well as the specific remuneration for making recommendations to the Board including the effectiveness of the external audit packages for these executives.
on the composition of the Board and its and the provision of non-audit services by the committees, on retirements, appointments external auditor.
of additional and replacement directors and on succession planning.
Home Retail Group 36 Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance continued Other matters considered by the Board included the extension of the UK Certain matters are specifically reserved for the Boards approval and collection service with eBay: the Homebase store closure programme: are not delegated to management.
These include matters relating to the cybersecurity: health and safety: business continuity arrangements: and Groups strategy: approval of any major acquisition: disposals: significant the development of the Groups corporate responsibility strategy.
capital expenditure: financial results: and overseeing the Groups systems In relation to human rights, the Group maintains and applies of internal control, governance and risk management.
A formal schedule appropriate policies in relevant areas of its businesses including its supply of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually and the following chain and in relation to its employees.
In FY14, the Board approved an specific responsibilities have remained unchanged this year: updated diversity and inclusion policy and continues to monitor progress The overall management of the Group, approval of the Groups in this important area.
As at 28 February 2015, 23,515 53% of a total long-term objectives and commercial strategy, and the review colleague number of 44,072 were women FY14: 24,208: 53% and 29 of performance.
29% of 100 senior executives were women FY14: 24: 26%.
If statutory Determining the nature and extent of significant risks the Board is willing for the Group to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
directors of corporate entities whose financial information is included in The approval of trading statements, announcements of half-year the Group financial statements are aggregated with senior executives, and full-year results, including dividends, and the annual report 33 30% of the total number of 110 were women FY14: 25: 26%.
seven members of the Board 29% are women.
The Group will continue The approval of documentation to be put forward to shareholders to support and encourage increased diversity across all parts of its business at general meetings and all circulars and prospectuses other than and at every management level of the organisation.
More information on routine documents.
our approach in these areas is set out in the corporate responsibility section The approval of all appointments to the Board and of the Company of the Groups website homeretailgroup.
Secretary and ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board The Company Secretary ensures that the Board receives regular and senior management.
briefings on corporate governance matters and company legislation.
In FY13, an independent review of the performance of the Board was Each month the Board received a management information pack undertaken by ICSA Board Evaluation.
During the period under review, the that provided detailed information on the performance of the Groups formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees was businesses and a report on the progress of the Argos Transformation Plan.
A questionnaire in relation to Board and committee At each scheduled meeting the Board received an update on trading and performance was provided to each Board member.
The responses to the financial performance and, in addition at six of these meetings, the Board questionnaire were collated by the Company Secretary and reviewed with received a comprehensive management report that covered the trading the Chairman.
A report on the findings was prepared by the Company and operational performance of each of the Groups businesses, the Secretary and discussed at a Board meeting.
The overall conclusion was Groups financial performance, current market expectations of financial that the Board and its committees were continuing to operate effectively.
performance and any significant developments.
The Board discussed items where there may be scope for the Board to enhance its effectiveness and actions were agreed and are being addressed During the period under review, the Board has focused on: including workshops with digital development teams and continued focus The ongoing development and implementation of the Argos on FCA regulatory requirements in relation to financial services.
Transformation Plan including the systems, infrastructure and Individual appraisals of directors have been undertaken by the management resources required to deliver the plan, and risks and Chairman.
Under the leadership of the senior independent director, the opportunities.
More information on the progress being made is set non-executive directors met without the Chairman present to appraise the out in the Argos business review section on pages 12 to 15.
Chairmans performance, taking account of any views expressed by the A review of the Homebase business and the development and executive directors.
In line with the requirements of the Code, all directors implementation of the Homebase Productivity Plan resulting are required to submit themselves for re-election each year.
from such review, including improvements in store productivity, strengthening of customer propositions, acceleration of digital Board committees capabilities, and a full review of risks and opportunities.
More The Board has appointed the following committees: Audit Committee, information on the progress being made is set out in the Homebase Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
The terms of business review section on pages 16 to 19. reference of each of these committees are available on the Groups website The development of IT infrastructure and service management to at homeretailgroup.
For information on the work of the Audit complement and support the strategic plans of Argos and Homebase.
Committee see pages 40 to 43, the Remuneration Committee see pages The development of Financial Services to support the Argos and 44 to 61 and the Nomination Committee see page 39.
The attendance of Homebase propositions.
More information on the progress being made directors at meetings of the Board and the committees during the period is set out in the Financial Services business review section on pages 20 under review was as follows: and 21.
The Board has also undertaken a review of governance, taking into account regulatory changes and the transition of consumer credit regulatory responsibility to the FCA.
The financial performance of the Group and its operating companies, including financial planning, variances to forecasts and the provision of appropriate financial resources to support the strategic plans of Argos and Homebase.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 37 COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board member meetings Committee Committee Committee John Walden 13 13 2 3 Richard Ashton 14 14 John Coombe 14 14 7 7 3 3 Mike Darcey 13 14 5 5 7 7 3 3 Ian Durant 13 14 5 5 7 7 3 3 Cath Keers 13 14 4 5 7 7 3 3 Jacqueline fide Rojas 14 14 5 5 7 7 3 3 Terry Duddy 1 1 0 1 Note: On 14 March 2014, John Walden was appointed to the Board.
Terry Duddy stepped down on the same date.
Internal control The key procedures which were operational in the period under review The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal were as follows.
The system is designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and help ensure the reliability of internal and external financial reporting.
Risk assessment The purpose of this system is to help manage and control risk rather than The Board considered and reviewed the Groups strategy, including eliminate it.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key the Argos Transformation Plan and Homebase Productivity Plan, procedures which have been established to provide internal control.
taking into account the risks it was willing for the Group to take in The Board confirms there is in place an ongoing process for identifying, achieving its strategic objectives.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, including The Groups risk management process was reviewed taking into risks relating to environmental, social and governance matters.
This account the changes to the Code that will apply to the Group in FY16.
process was in place throughout the period under review and up to the This included changes to the Groups risk assessment matrix to improve date of approval of this annual report and meets the requirements of the clarity and focus on principal risks, alongside investment in new risk FRC guidance entitled Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors.
This process is overseen by a risk committee which supports the Group Current and longer-term emerging risks in relation to the Groups Executive Board in managing and controlling risk.
The risk committee is strategy and the delivery of the strategy including any risks that could chaired by the Finance Director and comprises all the divisional finance threaten the Groups solvency or liquidity were discussed and reviewed directors, the director of Group treasury and taxation, the Company by management on the basis of the likelihood and impact of these risks Secretary, the risk assurance manager and the head of internal audit.
materialising, followed by the review of the risk committee and Group The risk committee met six times in the period under review.
This takes place on a bi-annual basis, facilitated by the considered the changes to the Code which come into effect for the risk assurance manager.
Company in FY16 and the FRC guidance entitled Guidance on Risk The risks identified through this process were then reported to the Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Audit Committee, with particular focus on those risks classified as Reporting and the Audit Committee reviewed revised procedures to be principal risks by management.
The schedule of principal risks was introduced in response to these changes.
used as the basis for the programme of internal audit and assurance The Audit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of this and is outlined in the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 24 system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
As part and 25. of the process that the Group has in place to review the effectiveness The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board of the internal control system there are procedures designed to capture for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and to ensure that necessary action regular basis and received its annual report on the controls over is taken to remedy any failings that may be categorised by the Board these risks.
This included risks arising from environmental, social as significant.
Home Retail Group 38 Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders Control environment and control activities The Board recognises the importance of communicating with its The Group has established procedures for delegating authority shareholders and does so in a number of ways, including the provision of which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because information in the annual report and on the Groups website, the Annual of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken General Meeting and the processes described below.
Although the majority of shareholder contact is with the Chief The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with Executive and the Finance Director, supported by management specialising each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies in investor relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, led by include internal controls, insurance and foreign currency hedging.
the Chairman, to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders The Group sets out principles, policies and standards to be adhered takes place.
Meetings with investors have been held throughout the year to.
These include risk identification, management and reporting with roadshow activity following the full-year and half-year results standards, ethical principles and practice and accounting policies.
Data consolidated into the Groups financial statements is reconciled announcements.
John Coombe has held meetings with a number of to the underlying financial systems.
A review of the consolidated data shareholders during the period under review.
Cath Keers, as chair of the is undertaken by management to ensure that the true position and Remuneration Committee, has also engaged with larger shareholders results of the Group are reflected through compliance with approved on remuneration matters.
Through these processes the Board is kept abreast of key issues.
Shareholders have a direct line of communication to the Chairman, Information and communication particularly if there are areas for concern, whether it be about performance, The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, strategy or governance.
The senior independent director is also available including monthly performance reviews by the Group Executive Board.
should shareholders have concerns which contact through the normal The Group Executive Board also reviews a range of financial and channels of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director non-financial performance indicators.
These indicators were regularly has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
All directors, including the chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and The Group has whistleblowing procedures in place for employees Nomination Committees, intend to be present at the Annual General to report any suspected improprieties.
Meeting and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting by members present at the Annual General Meeting will be by way of a poll.
Monitoring Proxies lodged prior to the meeting showing the balance for and against A range of procedures was used to monitor the effective application each resolution and the number of votes withheld will be displayed.
of internal control in the Group, including management assurance The results of voting at the Annual General Meeting will also be available through confirmation of compliance with standards, and on the Groups website at homeretailgroup.
com as soon as possible after independent assurance through internal audit reviews and review the meeting.
The internal audit departments responsibilities include reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, with a particular focus on those areas identified as being the greatest risk to the Group.
Follow-up processes were used to ensure there was an appropriate response to changes and developments in risks and the control environment.
