Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report make recommendations to the Board on accounting policies Audit & Risk Committee Report make recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting for the appointment of the external auditor, the approval of their remuneration and their terms of engagement receive reports from the Group Risk Committee advise the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy advise the Board on current risk exposures and future risk strategy review and approve the means by which the Group and its regulated subsidiary undertakings seek to comply with their respective regulatory obligations review the adequacy and security of the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
Mark Morris Summary of meetings in the year Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee The Committee usually meets four times in the year and did so in FY15.
During the year the agenda has included the following items: Half year results Members Full year results Mark Morris Chairman Principal judgemental accounting matters Ian Chippendale resigned 31 March 2015 External audit plans and reports Ben Mingay Internal audit plans and reports Risk assessments and reports The Audit & Risk Committee is chaired by Mark Morris who has recent and relevant financial Updates on regulatory compliance activity experience.
He worked in audit, business advisory and corporate finance before becoming a plc Updates on certain key risks, including information security and data protection Finance Director and also chairs the Audit Committee of LSL Property Services plc.
Whistleblower reports Internal audit effectiveness and independence The internal and external auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive Officer and External audit effectiveness and independence.
the Chairman are invited, but are not entitled, to attend all meetings.
Where appropriate, other Executive Directors and managers also attend meetings at the Chairmans invitation.
The The Committee meets privately, without any of the Executive Directors or management present, external and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns with the external and internal auditors after most Committee meetings.
that they may have, in the absence of the Executive Directors, whether at Committee meetings or, more informally, outside of them.
The Chairman of the Committee provides an update in respect of the matters discussed to the Board after each Committee meeting and the minutes of meetings are circulated to the Responsibilities whole Board.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: monitor, on behalf of the Board, compliance with and the effectiveness of, the Companys Significant issues related to the financial statements accounting and internal control systems The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether agree audit strategy management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
Management prepares monitor the scope and results of the Companys annual external audit papers providing details on the key judgements and these are reviewed by the Committee.
review the independence and objectivity of its auditors review the preliminary and interim results and financial statements before they are The Committee also reviews reports from the external auditor on the half year and full year presented to the Board results, which provide an overview of the audit work undertaken and highlight any issues approve and monitor the internal audit plan for discussion.
review the appropriateness of the internal audit function receive reports from the Companys internal and external auditors 58 | HomeServe HomeServe | 59 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report Audit & Risk Committee Report The significant issues considered in the year were: The Committee has noted the recent changes to EU audit legislation and the UK adoption revenue recognition, specifically the timing of when to recognise revenue so that sufficient of this legislation, which will require mandatory rotation for auditors of public interest entities revenue is deferred to cover future obligations at least every 20 years with a mandatory tender process being undertaken at the 10 year point.
the utilisation of the exceptional provisions required in respect of the UK issues including the The transitional rules for this new legislation mean that the Group would be required to change remediation exercises its auditor after 2024.
A recommended course of action will be proposed to the Board in due the carrying value of intangible assets specifically acquisition intangible assets and course.
The Committee has not identified any factors which might restrict its choice of external goodwill arising on the purchase of businesses and books of policies and customers auditor.
accounting in respect of new customers acquired through the Endesa and Enel Sales Through Service channels The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the external auditors for nonregulatory risk in each of the territories in which we operate.
audit services and monitors fees paid in respect of such services.
This policy provides that the total fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work in any financial year should The Committee addressed these matters using reports presented by management which set not normally be more than 100% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and compliance out the basis for the assumptions used.
All of the issues were also discussed with the external services.
In addition, any proposed spend over a predetermined limit must be approved by auditor and its views were taken into account.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements the Committee.
made are reasonable and appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
The fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work excluding audit-related assurance External auditor services totalled 381,000 and the fees payable in respect of audit and audit-related assurance The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, services totalled 450,000.
Further detail on the fees paid is provided in Note 7. for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
The In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement Committee is also responsible for developing and implementing the Groups policy on the 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
auditor has confirmed his independence as auditor of the Company in a letter addressed to the Directors.
The Committee has agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit process.
The Committee reviews the Risk management and internal control performance of the external auditor annually.
As stated in the Corporate Governance report, the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit & Risk Committee Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor since 2002, although the lead audit partner rotates supports the Board by advising on the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, every five years and did so during the year.
current risk exposures and future risk strategy.
The Committee reviews risk registers produced by the management of each business and the plc function at each of its meetings.
On a periodic During the year the external auditor presented its transparency report to the Committee, which basis, it also reviews action plans in respect of significant risks.
is intended to demonstrate the steps it takes to ensure audit quality with reference to the Audit Quality Framework issued by the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial Reporting Council.
The Committee also monitors, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the Companys The Committee also considered whether the auditors understanding of the Groups business accounting and internal control systems.
In fulfilling this responsibility, the Committee receives and its understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates, including the regulatory reports from management and the internal and external auditors.
landscape, was appropriate to the Groups needs.
It also assessed the performance of the audit, the auditors conduct of its relationship with the Group and the requirements of the Groups Further details in respect of risk management and controls are set out in the Corporate financial control process.
On this basis, the Committee concluded that the needs of the Group Governance report.
would not be best served by putting the external audit out to tender at this time.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP should be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
