Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Directors indemnities and insurance Members The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors J M Barry Gibson Chairman which were in place during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company Ian Chippendale resigned 31 March 2015 maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
Stella David Ben Mingay Advice for Directors Mark Morris The Board has established a formal procedure for Directors wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice and all members of the Board have access to the advice, and Responsibilities services of the Company Secretary.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors Relationships with shareholders review the size, structure and composition of the Board The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with consider succession planning arrangements for Directors and other Senior Managers.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access The Committee draws on the advice of such professional advisers as it considers necessary.
to the Chairman and independent Senior Non-Executive Director, who are available to discuss any questions which they may have in relation to the running of the Company.
The Committee did not meet during the year: succession planning activity was undertaken by the Board as a whole.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, Executive Committee shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through the website or by telephone.
The day to day running of the business rests with the Group Chief Executive, Richard Harpin.
The Executive Committee assists the Chief Executive in the performance of his duties including: The Board recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major the development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedure shareholders.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to Directors and budgets upon publication.
The Board receives a monthly Investor Relations report which includes the monitoring of operating and financial performance an analysis of the Companys shareholder register as well as any feedback received from the prioritisation and allocation of resources and shareholders and analysts.
the oversight of group wide initiatives and investments.
Going concern Other members of the Executive Committee are Martin Bennett, Johnathan Ford, Tom Rusin, The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, Chief Executive of HomeServe USA and Stephen Phillips, Chief Executive of Reparalia in Spain.
performance and position are set out in the strategic report, as are the principal risks and The Committee has adopted formal terms of reference.
In addition, the strategic report includes, amongst other things, cash flow and financing information.
Risk Committee A Group Risk Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and other representatives of each The Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, forecasts, cash flows and established that business, operates across the Group and is chaired by Johnathan Ford.
Its terms of reference the businesses are progressing in line with expectations for growth in FY16.
As a result, the have been approved by the Board and its purpose is to advise the Audit & Risk Committee Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate in respect of the Groups risk appetite, to evaluate the risk registers compiled by each of its resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they businesses, to monitor the effectiveness of action plans for the mitigation of those risks, and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
to report thereon to the Audit & Risk Committee and thereafter to the Board, which retains responsibility for the overall evaluation of the Groups risk management processes.
In addition, the Directors have considered the carrying value of goodwill and other assets and have concluded that there is no impairment of these assets.
