Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 39 Nomination Committee report Board succession planning Membership During the year the committee reviewed Board succession, taking into The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Coombe and its other account the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on members are Mike Darcey, Ian Durant, Cath Keers, Jacqueline fide Rojas the Board.
The committee considered the skills and experience that were and John Walden appointed 14 March 2014.
Terry Duddy stepped down most appropriate for the Group, taking into account its strategy and risk from the committee on 14 March 2014. profile: developments and trends in the market: regulatory developments, including the regulation of consumer credit by the FCA: and the Meetings importance of the role of the Board in supporting creativity and innovation.
The committee met three times during the year and attendance at those The committee considered the length of service of the Chairman and meetings is shown on page 37 within the corporate governance section.
non-executive directors and the size of the Board and the optimal approach Terry Duddy did not attend one meeting that related to the appointment to be adopted towards refreshing the skills and experience represented on of his successor as Chief Executive.
the Board, while maintaining an appropriate degree of continuity through Main activities a period of significant change in the Group, including the implementation The committees focus is on strengthening, balancing and understanding of the Argos Transformation Plan and the Homebase Productivity Plan.
the range of skills, experience and diversity of the Board and key roles below Board level.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for making Development of talent and diversity recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board and its The committee considered the management and development of talent, committees, on retirements, appointments of additional and replacement and activities to support and develop diversity.
Following senior internal directors and on succession planning.
The committee oversaw the promotions and moves, the committee focused on the challenge of selection process for the successor to Paul Loft, Managing Director ensuring succession plans for key roles, recognising the market demand for of Homebase.
digital skills and experience, and the importance of developing the talent pipeline within the organisation.
The committee considered the emphasis Chief Executive transition being placed on diversity and inclusion and supported the progress in The committee led the process that resulted in the appointment of developing the Groups diversity and inclusion strategy.
John Walden as Chief Executive on 14 March 2014.
The committee From a gender perspective, as at 28 February 2015, the Company had reviewed with John Walden, organisational changes and key roles below two female directors representing 29% of the Board FY14: 29% and 18% Board level to facilitate the transition into his new accountabilities, while of the Group Executive Board members were women FY14: 22%.
The securing continued focus on the Argos Transformation Plan.
committee discussed ethnic and gender diversity in senior management and the work taking place to develop and maintain a diverse colleague base, Board committees including training in unconscious bias and balanced and diverse short-lists The committee considered and reaffirmed the membership of for roles.
More information on the Groups policy and approach to diversity can be found in the corporate responsibility section of the Groups website, homeretailgroup.
