52 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Activities of the Committee up to the date of thisreport Nomination The Committee did not meet between Admission and the year-end.
The following matters were considered by the Committee after the Committee year-end to: Adopt the Committees Terms of Reference: Recommend the appointment of Tracey Graham and Lynn Report Minella as Non-Executive Directors.
Egon Zehnder, the external search firm, which has no other connection to the Company, worked with me to devise a long list of candidates.
Ashort listwas then compiled and the Committee, together withthe Executive Directors, met with these candidates and wasable toformulate its recommendation to the Board: and Review succession planning for the Board.
Succession planning and Board diversity The composition of the Board is constantly under review with theaim of ensuring that it has the depth and breadth of skills todischarge its responsibilities effectively.
The aim of the Committee is to ensure that the Board is well balanced and appropriate for the needs of the business and theachievement of its strategy, comprising Directors who are appropriately experienced and are independent of character and judgement.
Before recommending new candidates to the Board, theNomination Committee takes account of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of psychological type, background and gender.
However, all Board appointments will always be made on merit.
Additional information is included in Dear Shareholder, theCorporate Governance Statement on page 48.
I am pleased to present to you the report of the Nomination Ensuring the Directors independence and commitment Committee the Committee for the financial period ended totheir roles 31December 2015.
In making recommendations to the Board on Non-Executive Director appointments, the Nomination Committee specifically Committee membership considers the expected time commitment of the proposed Although the Committee was not compliant with the Non-Executive Director and other commitments they already have.
recommendations of the Governance Code on Admission, Agreement of the Board is also required before a Director may following the appointment of Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella accept any additional commitments to ensure possible conflicts asindependent Non-Executive Directors and members of the ofinterest are identified and that they will continue to have Committee on 3February 2016, the Committee is now compliant.
sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
Any other conflicts of interest are also considered at each Board meeting.
The members of the Nomination Committee during the period ended31 December 2015 were as follows: myself as Chairman, Committee effectiveness Jonathan Nicholls, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, The effectiveness of the Committee will be reviewed on an annual and Michel Plantevin.
basis by both the Board and the Committee.
It is anticipated that the first review will take place in November 2016, at which time the The current members of the Committee are myself as Chairman, Committee will have been in existence for more than one year.
Jonathan Nicholls, Tracey Graham, Lynn Minella all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors and Michel Plantevin.
Jamie Pike Chairman of the Nomination Committee Responsibilities 10 March 2016 The key responsibilities of the Committee are as follows: Develop and maintain a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for making recommendations to the Board on appointments, structure, size and composition of the Board: Succession planning for Directors and other senior managers: Evaluate the balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and experience of the Board: Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for aparticular appointment and lead the recruitment process: Identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board and senior management vacancies as and when they arise: Review the time commitment required from Non-Executive Directors and to evaluate the membership and performance ofthe Board and its Committees: and Recommend the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors andre-election of Directors.
IBSTOCK 15 Corp Gov and Committees DRF2.
