OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 53 The Committee met formally on one occasion prior to the period end.
Audit However, I have maintained a regular dialogue with the Chief Financial Officer and external auditor since Admission.
Committee The Committee met in February 2016 to consider, amongst other matters, the Annual Report & Accounts.
The Committee intends to meet at least four times per year going forward, in alignment with Report the financial reporting timetable.
Purpose and aim The purpose of the Committee is to make recommendations on the reporting, control, risk management and compliance aspects of the Directors and the Groups responsibilities, providing independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to Executive Management in these areas.
Key responsibilities include: To ensure the consistent application of, and any changes to, significant accounting policies across the Group: To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: To monitor and challenge the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls, as well as the internal control and riskmanagement systems: To monitor the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures: To evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function: To make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, independence and effectiveness of the Groups external auditor and to negotiate and agree their remuneration: and Dear Shareholder, To develop and implement the Groups non-audit services policy.
Welcome to the first Report of the Audit Committee the The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Committee.
The Committee reviews and makes recommendations Companys website www.
to the Boardon the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems and the independence and effectiveness Accounting and key areas of judgement ofthe external auditors.
The Committee provides independent A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is ensuring that monitoring, guidance and challenge to Executive Management in suitable accounting policies are adopted and applied consistently on these areas.
Through this process the Committees aim is to ensure a year on year basis.
The Committee commenced this process at high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, an appropriate the December 2015 meeting and intends to use the Audit Planning control environment, risk management and compliance.
The meetings in May and November each year to consider proposed Committee believes that excellence in these areas enhances accounting treatments for major transactions, significant reporting theeffectiveness and reduces the risks to thebusiness.
judgements and key assumptions related tothose judgements.
The Committee is appointed by the Board.
The Committee will Audit Committee activities during the period continue to keep its activities under review to ensure that it At the meeting held in December 2015 the Committee: complies with any changes in the regulatory environment.
Undertook a year-end planning update, which included: In October 2015, Ibstock plc was admitted to the premium listing Meeting with the external auditors to review their proposals for segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority the audit of the Group for the period ended 31 December 2015: andto trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Review of: Prior to the Groups flotation the Directors performed a review significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters which did not highlight the requirement for any significant changes the going concern assessment approach see page 80 tothe Groups processes and procedures.
the Groups approach to producing a viability statement overathree-year period I shall be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer developments in corporate governance and reporting anyquestions shareholders may have regarding the work of requirements and proposed disclosure in the 2015 Annual theCommittee.
Report in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code areas of potential fraud and mitigating controls inplace Audit Committee and advisers whistleblowing policy see page 55 From Admission until February 2016, the Committee comprised Agreement of 2015 audit fee: and Jamie Pike and myself.
During February 2016, Tracey Graham Approval of the policy on the engagement of the external andLynn Minella were appointed to the Board as Non-Executive auditorfor the provision of non-audit services.
Directors and also became members of the Committee.
Following their appointment, Jamie Pike stood downfrom the Committee Following the year-end the Committee met in February 2016 at which it: on24 February 2016.
Undertook a review of the Annual Report & Accounts, which included: The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting and Confirmation that the Annual Report was fair, balanced, discussion with the Groups external auditors in respect of the understandable and provided the necessary information required Groups half year and period end results and meetings are also by shareholders to assess performance, position, business attended by certain Executive Directors and senior managers model and strategy.
The Committee recommended that the byinvitation.
Board approve the Annual Report & Accounts on this basis.
The names and functions of the Directors who were in office asat 31 December 2015 are given on pages 42 and 43.
IBSTOCK 15 Corp Gov and Committees DRF2.
indd 53 12 04 2016 13:02 54 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Classification of non-underlying items Audit Committee Report The principal items recognised as exceptional are costs related continued to the acquisition during the period and the subsequent IPO, and negative goodwill arising on the acquisition of the operating companies.
The Committee considered both the nature and thequantum of those items disclosed as exceptional within the2015 financial statements.
Management demonstrated thatthe treatment was in line withcurrent practice and existing guidance issued by the FRC.
The Committee reviewed Reported to the Board on how the Committee had discharged its managements analysis of theclassification and assessment responsibilities, which included: ofitems nature and received inputfrom the external auditor Significant risk areas considered: toconfirm that such accountingtreatment is consistent with Appropriate treatment of customer rebates linked to accounting guidance.
The Committee concluded that treatment revenue recognition of these items as exceptional was in line with the Groups The Group has a number of contracts with its customers accounting policy, andwas appropriately disclosed.
containing volume rebate clauses based on revenue earned in IFRS first time reporting the period.
Given the material nature ofthe Groups rebates, the The 2015 Annual Report & Accounts is the Groups first Committee requested that management review its accounting publication since its listing in October 2015.
As a result, practices in this area which confirmed the nature of the basis theCommittee considered, and satisfied itself, with due ofthe calculation with reference to contractual agreements inputfrommanagement andthe external auditor, that the and the controls in place to record the rebate and settle in appropriate accounting policies were in place and that cash, and input from the external auditor, the Committee was adequate disclosure had been included in the satisfied that accounting balances at 31 December 2015 were .
Other activities: Pension accounting Explanation of the assessment of effectiveness of the The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme in the UKand externalaudit process.
post-retirement obligations in its US operations.
Judgement is Recommendation to the Board on the reappointment and taken by management around the assumptions used, including remuneration of the external auditor.
the impact of sensitivities to these assumptions, by its actuary to Consideration and recommendation to the Board to calculate the pension scheme assets and liabilities under IAS 19 R. approvetheViability Statement.
The Committee reviewed and The Committee considered the basis of the actuarial calculation challenged managements underlying assertions e. g. look out and the assumptions used.
In the UK scheme, an actuarial surplus period, assumptions and consistency with the IPO forecasts.
has been restricted to 0.3 million based on the application of Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not accounting guidance.
Management presented a paper to the aware of any misstatements, either material or immaterial, in Committee setting out the basis of its treatment in this area and thedocuments and information underpinning their assessment.
wider pension accounting judgements and the Committee agreed with the conclusions reached bymanagement.
The Committee After reviewing the reports from management and consulting also agreed the recording of the 8.0 million liability in respect where necessary with the external auditors the Committee is ofthe US pension.
satisfied thatthe financial statements appropriately address the Acquisition accounting critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the The significant business combination that occurred during amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also February 2015 required complex accounting and disclosure satisfied that the processes used for determining the value of within the financial statements.
The Committee considered the theassets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, appropriateness of the judgements taken by management in challenged and arefairly stated.
arriving at the Groups acquired fair value balance sheet.
The Committee considered the independent valuations received by Fair, balanced and understandable management in supportof the assets and liabilities recognised, It is the Boards responsibility to determine whether the 2015 together with managements own assessments, and received Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced input from the external auditor as to the adequacy of the andunderstandable.
The Committees role in that process resulting accounting and related disclosures.
The Committee iscovered on page 50. agreed with the judgements reached by management.
Other key areas of consideration: Internal controls and risk management Carrying value of non-current assets The Audit Committee supports the Boards assessment of The Group holds significant asset values in the form of mineral principal risks and the Boards review of the Groups internal reserves, land and buildings, and property, plant and equipment.
financial controls, as well as the internal controls and risk The Committee considered the processes adopted by management processes.
management in assessing whether, in their judgement, any indicators of impairment existed.
TheCommittee reviewed Internal audit managements conclusions in this areaand concurred with The Group has a focused internal audit function which performs managements judgement that no indicators of impairment arolling programme of key control reviews.
The Committee existed at the balance sheet date and, as such, no detailed acknowledges the importance of an effective internal audit function impairment testing was required.
and has commissioned RSM UK Group LLP to undertake a Provisions and contingencies health-check of the Groups current Internal Audit arrangements The Group holds a number of provisions and contingent and the wider control environment.
A report on the findings is liabilities as at the period end date.
The Committee reviewed expected to be received in May 2016 and the Committee will thejudgements made by management in this area, and actupon those recommendations as it considers appropriate.
agreed that the proposed quantum of the provisions was appropriate and that contingent liabilities had been suitablydisclosed.
indd 54 12 04 2016 13:02 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 55 The external audit, review of its effectiveness, non-audit Following the IPO, a non-audit services policy has been developed services and auditor reappointment to clearly set out the non-audit services that may be provided by The Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the the external auditor.
Under the policy, prior approval is required by external auditors and their effectiveness, independence and the Committee for any non-statutory assignments where the fee objectivity, and discusses the nature and results of the audit would exceed 100,000, or where such an assignment would take withthe external auditors.
As part of the review of the effectiveness the cumulative total of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors ofthe external audit process, a formal evaluation process over 70% of that years statutory audit fees.
However, when incorporating views from the Committee and relevant members of appropriate, a detailed calculation will be performed to ensure that management will be considered by the Committee and feedback the Group is compliant with the European Unions NewStatutory will be provided to the external auditors.
These reviews Audit Framework, which applies to financial yearsbeginning on areexpected to include: orafter 17 June 2016. the effectiveness of the external audit firm: quality controls: Fraud, whistleblowing and the Bribery Act the audit team: The Committee monitors any reported incidents under its audit fee: whistleblowing policy.
This policy is included in the Employee audit communications and effectiveness: Handbook and sets out the procedure for employees to raise governance and independence: legitimate concerns about any wrongdoing in financial reporting ethical standards: and orother matters such as: potential impairment of independence by non-audit fee income.
something that could be unlawful: a miscarriage of justice: The Committee also considers the effectiveness of management a danger to the health and safety of any individual: inthe external audit process in respect of the timely identification damage to the environment: or improper conduct.
and resolution of areas of accounting judgement with input from the external auditors as appropriate: and the timely provision of There were no concerns notified to the Group that required the thedraft half year results announcement and Annual Report attention of the Committee during the period under review and up &Accounts for review by the auditors and the Committee.
to the date of this report.
The Committee also reviews the Groups procedure for detecting fraud and the systems and controls in Having undertaken its review, in the opinion of the Committee, place to prevent a breach of anti-bribery legislation.
The Group itiscontent with the relationship it has with the external auditors iscommitted to a zero-tolerance position with regard to bribery.
and the Committee is satisfied that they are independent and Anti-bribery guidance and training is provided to certain employees effective.
The Committee has, therefore, recommended to the applying what the Group has determined to be a risk-based and Board that Ernst and Young LLP EY be reappointed as auditor proportionate approach.
The Group maintains a record of all at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
There are no contractual employees who have received this guidance and training.
obligations restricting the Companys choice ofexternal auditor.
The Committee considers that it has acted in accordance with Following the sale by CRH plc, the Group has retained the existing itsTerms of Reference and has ensured the independence, external auditors and therefore EY have been the Companys external objectivity and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
auditors since its incorporation in September 2015.
In accordance with the recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, The Company has complied since Admission up to the date of CMAorder and EU Audit Directive, it is the Groups intention to thisreport with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services puttheaudit out to tender atleast once every 10 years.
forLarge Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee The Committee has written terms of reference which have Responsibilities Order 2014. been published on the Companys corporate website at www.
com investors and have been summarised within Jonathan Nicholls thisreport.
In addition, the Committee intends to formalise an Chairman of the Audit Committee annualplan in 2016 to address the key areas for review, the reports 10 March 2016 from which will highlight to the Board any required developments inits risk management systems.
In addition to the review of the formal management letter from the external auditors which outlines how points raised by them have been addressed by management, feedback is sought from the external auditors on the conduct of members of the finance team during the audit process.
In addition, I have met with the lead auditpartner outside the formal Committee process and will dosoduring the year on a regular basis.
The external auditors are responsible for the annual statutory audits of the Groups subsidiariesand other services which the Committee believe they are best placed to provide.
EY provided reporting accountant services in relation to the IPO.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor are set in Note5to the financial statements.
Since Admission the auditors have not undertaken any new assignments outside the scope of the statutory audit.
EY has provided tax compliance services in respect of the US business, which will cease in 2016.
With this exception, and in line with good practice, EY does not provide taxation services for the Group.
Such services are currently provided by  LLP.
