26 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Safe working environment Key resources The Group employs over 2,600 people across the UK and US and it is the Groupsobjective to provide a safe working and relationships environment for all our employees and the contractors at Ibstock sites.
It is a strategic priority to focus on safety in the workplace, and Health and Safety is at the core of ouroperations.
As a large employer in both the EU and theUS, the Group must comply with the European Framework Directive on Safety and Health at Work and Occupational Safety and Health Act, respectively.
Theseguarantee minimum safety and health requirements, and under such lawsand regulations, employers typically must establish the conditions and the management of work in a manner that effectively prevents dangers to employees.
Interpretation of the legislative requirements is further supported in the UK by Approved Codes of Practice.
These documents are used to help define Group policies and procedures for all employees.
The Group has training programmes in place to ensure all employees are competent to carry out their duties and an auditing protocol is in place to ensure policies and procedures are effective and adhered to.
A dedicated team of health and safety professionals support the operational employees in all aspects of Health and Safety management and leadership.
The Board carefully monitors the Groups performance against our Lost Time Accidents KPI, which has reduced this measure over recent years.
Number of Lost Time Accidents by year 100 80 60 40 20 Delivering continuous 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 improvement is the Recognition and development Our people lie at the heart of the Groups coreof our operations, operations and as such we are committed to developing an environment where everyemployee can thrive and give constantly looking for theirvery best each and every day.
Ourcontinual investment in their training and development contributes to a highly more efficient ways engaged workforce with the skills and experience necessary to deliver the ofdoing things and Groups business objectives both now andinto the future.
Delivering continuous improvement is the core of our operations, embracing technology constantly looking for more efficient ways ofdoing things and embracing technology wherever possible.
indd 26 12 04 2016 13:06 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 27 Case study Key facts Women in leadership Gender split across the Group Karen Cuncliffe as at 31 December 2015 Factory Manager, Chesterton UK Directors of the Company Male 6 Female 0 Senior Equality and diversity Managers I have worked for Ibstock for 37 years, Ibstock has provided both a challenging Male 19 starting my career in 1977 as a Laboratory and supportive environment to work and Female 2 Assistant and then Lab Manager at the develop in.
There is a very supportive Ravenhead factory near Skelmersdale.
culture driven from the top down and as Ithen had the opportunity to become a amanager it is very rewarding to see my Regional Technical Manager, covering a people have and take opportunities to number of factories before switching over develop and thrive.
to the production side of the business.
I became Production Manager back at the Running a factory, especially one as Ravenhead factory before moving over to high-profile as Chesterton brings new the nearby Roughdales factory as Factory and varied challenges every day, not Manager in 2005. least hosting some of the visitors to the site such as Boris Johnson and Amber The opportunity arose to become the Rudd!
However, the whole team is Factory Manager at Chesterton and to focused on moving the factory forward, oversee its redevelopment as one of achieving new records for both quality All theworlds most efficient brickworks and output but most importantly employees and, at the time, Ibstocks single biggest providing a safe working environment.
Male 2,337 investment in new plant for a decade.
I am especially proud of our safety record Female 358 which currently stands at 1,465 days without a lost time accident.
Equality and diversity notpossible for an employee to We are committed to promoting equal continueintheir current job, they will opportunities in employment.
All job begiven suitable training for alternative applicants, employees and other workers employment within the Group or such as agency staff and consultants elsewhere.
willbe treated with dignity and respect regardless of their age, disability, gender We are committed to identifying and reassignment, marital or civil partner eliminating discriminatory practices, status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic procedures and attitudes and we expect ornational origin, religion or belief, sex allemployees, officers, consultants, orsexual orientation.
We believe that contractors, casual workers and agency byproviding aharmonious working workers to support our commitment environment all employees should be andassist in all possible ways to ableto maximise their potential and .
Subsequent to the period end date, Where an employee becomes disabled, LynnMinella and Tracey Graham were subsequent to joining the Group, all efforts appointed as Non-Executive Directors are made to enable that employee to ofIbstock plc, bringing our ratio of continue in their current job.
However if, femaleDirectors to 25%as at the due to the specific circumstances, it is dateofthis report.
indd 27 12 04 2016 13:06 28 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Key resources and relationships continued Case study Apprenticeships Thomas Brooke Apprentice of the Year 2015 competing businesses.
We believe that these manufacturing business and was sound, ethical principles will help us to act at excited to be accepted onto the all times with honesty and integrity, constantly  programme striving to operate in the best interests of our asatechnical apprentice.
This will help ensure that Ibstock has been different!
Although only in plc continues to maintain and enhance its my second year I have already seen excellent reputation as a Group that everyone many different aspects of the business can trust and wants to do business with.
including helping to run the Quality Assurance system at the Nostell The Group is aware of its obligations under factoryand now I am working as the Human Rights Act and seeks to act partof the team on the new factory accordingly in all aspects of its operations.
Apprenticeships Engagement with our local I joined the Ibstock apprentice scheme The apprenticeship programme communities in 2014.
I had taken a degree in Sports istailored to suit the needs of the The Group is proud of its long history of being Science and was unsure about my individual and I am currently studying part of the local communities in which it future career path and after a number for a foundation degree course in clay operates.
Each of the companies within the of jobs I decided to take some time out technology at Derby University as Ibstock family provides financial support, and to travel.
On my return, I realised that wellas working towards my Ibstock is actively engaged in, these communities.
Iwould like to be involved in a Technical Workplace NVQ.
Thisinvolvement ranges from financial supportfor community projects to stakeholder engagement relating to quarry extensions.
survey will also be implemented across all Apprenticeships As part of the recent proposal to extend of the Group companies to ensure we are At some point in time all employees will retire theGroups clay quarry at Dorket Head, measuring engagement consistently across and over the last 20 years the Group has run anumber of public information days at the the Group and also facilitate comparison a highly successful apprentice programme.
local Community Centre were held and across the entities within the Ibstock family.
Since 2012 we have enhanced this alsoa number of information leaflets were programme through central co-ordination produced providing information regarding A variety of methods are used to engage and standardisation of the programme to the proposals.
Nearly 90% of employees of with employees, including factory and ensure all apprentices are trained to a the Dorket Head factory live within ten miles departmental briefings, and in-house consistent standard, including specific sign of the site and it is estimated that more than publications.
The Group will use one or off within the organisation in addition to that 3.5 million per annum is spent in the local more of these channels to brief employees of the training provider.
This focus ensures community by the factory.
Our other sites on the Groups performance and the that we mitigate the risk of an ageing have a similarly high level of employees financial and economic factors affecting workforce and harness the skills and wholive in the vicinity of their place of work.
In particular, experience of these people so that when theGroup operates a Save As You Earn they retire their replacement is fully trained Recently schoolchildren from three schools SAYE share scheme, which is open to and competent to take over their role.
in Ibstock helped plant 900 trees in the eligible employees, where employees are grounds of the Leicester site as part of the encouraged to save a fixed monthly sum Employee engagement Groups programme to build the new Ibstock fora period of three years.
Customer satisfaction begins and ends state-of-the-art brick factory.
In January with the relationship they have with our 2016, more than 280 pupils took part in the Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies employees and delighting our customers tree planting exercise over a two-day period.
As the laws governing business dealings can only be delivered through highly Activities such as this are one example of become ever more complex we need to competent, engaged and diligent people.
the way in which the Group aims to engage ensure the judgements and decisions we Ibstock Brick, the largest operating the local communities around its sites.
make are taken with both the knowledge company within the Group has run and application of the highest ethical employee opinion surveys for the last Environment principles.
In October 2015, we updated 18 years.
Consistently our response rates The Group recognises its responsibilities as and re-issued our Code of Business have been in excess of 80% and allow us amanufacturer to reduce the environmental Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Corruption toidentify specific improvement areas impact of its activities.
The Group is andformulate action plans to consistently policies to continue to ensure that we committed to introducing environmental improve employee engagement.
Following operate in an open, fair and honest manner management systems and each of our UK our successful listing, the survey will be in all of our business dealings.
We have businesses and is currently accredited, or comprehensively revised to ensure that we also implemented our Trade Associations working towards accreditation with, ISO fully capture the true drivers of employee Policy to help support employees in their 14001 the International Environmental engagement and ensure that we continue dealings with fellow employees, customers, Management standard.
In addition to this, to deliver for our customers.
The revised suppliers, regulators and colleagues in we continue to invest in energy efficiency, IBSTOCK 10 Resources and Relationships DRF2.
indd 28 12 04 2016 13:06 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 29 1.
T he innovative Gemini planting trees at roof tile Ibstock 3.
Ibstock apprentices undergoing training 1 2 3 Case study Employee engagement Innovation Research and development Craig Wright The Group continually seeks to improve Process Manager, Chesterton, UK thequality of its existing products and processes, as well as to introduce new products through innovation and torunthe special and bespoke brick investments in new technology.
The making unit at the Chesterton factory Groups innovation efforts are primarily before becoming the Process Manager pursued at each of the Groups four for the main plant.
I have always been impressed by the Examples of innovative products developed depth of knowledge and expertise at include: the Ibstock Brickshield insulation every level within the business as well product and the extended range of as the willingness to listen to new ideas Fireborn: Glen-Gerys thintech brick and involve people.
For example, I was cladding system that uses a mounting heavily involved in the development of system for thin brick: Forticretes Gemini the new Chesterton factory from its tileand the new large format tile: and initial design and development, through Supremes anti-theft device added to Engagement and involvement the build and commissioning stages.
protect the cables secured within its rail My background is in refractory ceramics Being part of the team has been very cable troughs and a lightweight cable and the heavy clay manufacturing rewarding, especially now that the trough to ease manual handling.
I joined Ibstock in 2004 Chesterton factory is in full production.
Furthermore, at the Group level, innovation is pursued through collaborative projects among the businesses.
Ibstock Brick CO reduction, the generation of electricity Greenhouse Gas Emission developed a clay rainscreen cladding.
The 2 from landfill gas and the recycling of raw figures 2015 Group recognised the same product could materials such as process water to be used by Forticrete to produce a polished Greenhouse Gas Emission Tonnes of minimise waste and cost.
concrete rainscreen as an alternative to the Source CO e 2 clay rainscreen and developed this product Scope 1 Combustion of fuel Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data has in the alternative material.
and operation of facilities 512,854 been collected from the majority of locations operated or controlled by the Group, with The Group has a strong track record of Scope 2 Electricity 78,186 some estimations used for the US subsidiary award winning products, including: Intensity Ratio: Tonnes of CO e 2 entitys locations and immaterial UK Brick Development Association BDA per tonne of production 0.21 subsidiaries.
UK Government conversion Awards Ibstock Brick has a 10-year factors and EUETS verified emissions have track record of award wins having been been used.
Emission sources falling outside The results provided for Greenhouse in over 70 more than half of the award the Groups operational control and other Gas Emissions are for the year ended winning categories and six of the Scope 3 emissions have not been collated 31 December 2015, which differs from supreme award winners: and reported.
thestatutory period of this Annual Report Queens Award for Enterprise awarded in & Accounts.
The Directors believe that 2001 for Forticretes Gemini roof tile, which The Group has used CO per tonne of provision of information for the 12 months was also awarded Millennium Products 2 production as its intensity ratio as this is provides a clearer baseline for our reporting status by the Design Council: and themost appropriate and relevant factor in this area in future years.
As this is our Brick in Architecture Awards Glen-Gery associated with our activities and should first Annual reporting, no comparative has won numerous awards across a broad provide an appropriate basis on which information is provided.
range of categories in the last five years.
