44 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Ibstock plc successfully floated on the London Stock Exchange Corporate on27 October 2015 and I am pleased to present this, the first Corporate Governance Statement as a listed company, toourshareholders.
Governance This Statement explains key features of the Companys governance structure and compliance with the version of the UK Corporate Statement Governance Code published in September 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council the Governance Code.
This Statement also includes items required by the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Chairmans introduction Rules and Transparency Rules DTR.
A copy of the Governance Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
It is the Boards intention to be fully compliant with the GovernanceCode.
Although the Company was not fully compliant on Admission, significant progress is being made to ensure compliance and much has been achieved in a relatively short timeframe.
Whilst we have explained why we have not thus far complied with certain provisions of the Governance Code, we havealso set out the actions that have or are taking place to worktowards full compliance during 2016.
While other sections of the Annual Report cover our financial and operational achievements during the period, this section describes the effective leadership of the Board and how it endeavours to promote the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
My responsibility as Chairman is to ensure that the Board operates effectively and efficiently and that it upholds the high standards of corporate governance required for the long-term success of the Company.
I believe the achievement of good governance is based on the appropriate level of oversight, good communication, a focus on risks, a commitment to transparency and ensuring a culture of continuous improvement in standards and performance across thebusiness.
My responsibility as In future, the Board will revisit its level of oversight and the Chairman is to ensure that monitoring of risks over a variety of areas including strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure on new projects, the Board operates effectively finance, people and sustainability matters.
The Board aims to ensure that good governance extends beyond the Boardroom and efficiently and that it andis continually borne in mind in the successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities over both the short and long term.
continues to uphold the Jamie Pike highstandard of corporate Chairman 10 March 2016 governance required for thelong-term success of theCompany.
IBSTOCK 15 Corp Gov and Committees DRF2.
indd 44 12 04 2016 13:02 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 45 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate The purpose of the Governance Code is to facilitate effective, governance.
We have made significant progress since Admission entrepreneurial and prudent management that can deliver the and except as described in the table below, as of the date of long-term success of the Company.
The main principles of the thisAnnual Report, the Company complies and intends to continue Governance Code set out standards of practice for the Board in tocomply with the Governance Code.
As envisaged by the relation to leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration Governance Code, the Board has established Audit, Nomination and its relations with shareholders.
The Company was incorporated and Remuneration committees.
If the need should arise, the on 3 September 2015 and admitted to the premium listing segment Boardmay establish additional committees, as appropriate.
of the Official List and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 27 October 2015 Admission.
The Governance Code applied from Admission and the Company undertook a significant amount of work in preparation for this and continues towork towards full compliance.
1.2 Except for smaller companies at The Governance Code recommends that, in thecase of a FTSE 350 company, least half the board, excluding atleasthalf theBoard of Directors, excluding the Chairman, should comprise the chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent for the non-executive directors  Code.
determined by the board tobeindependent.
On Admission, the Board comprised six members, including the Non-Executive Chairman, who wasindependent on appointment, the Senior Independent Director, two Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors, Michel Plantevin and Matthias Boyer Chammard who are not considered to be independent for the purposes of the Governance Code as a result of being nominated to the Board byDiamond BC S. r. l. Accordingly, the Company has not complied with the recommendation of the Governance Code in respect of composition of the Board.
Actions taken to achieve compliance: The Company was not compliant on Admission, but took swift action and two independent Non-Executive Directors were appointed in February 2016.
The process toidentify an additional independent Non-Executive Director is ongoing and following appointment the Company expects to be fully compliant with the Governance Code.
2.1 There should be a nomination The Nomination Committee is chaired by Jamie Pike and the other members are committee which should Jonathan Nicholls, Michel Plantevin, Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella.
Asat the leadthe process for board year-end the Company had not complied with the recommendations of the appointments and make GovernanceCode in respect of the number of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Amajority of members of the Action taken to achieve compliance: nomination committee should Since the year end Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella became members of the beindependent non-executive Committee and the Company has now complied with the recommendations of directors.
theGovernance Code in this respect.
6 The board should undertake Action taken to achieve compliance: aformal and rigorous The Board and its Committees are newly formed and sufficient time has not annualevaluation of its own passedtoconduct a meaningful Board evaluation process.
Evaluation of the performance and that of its Boardsperformance will be a key issue for the attention of the Board and its committees and individual Committees during the next 12 months.
6.1 The board should state in the Action taken to achieve compliance: annual report how performance The Board has established a timetable of Board and Committee meetings.
TheBoard evaluation ofthe board, its and its Committees have also scheduled meetings at which the performance and committees and itsindividual effectiveness of the Board and its Committees will be evaluated.
The Board is committed directors has been conducted.
to conducting an externally facilitated evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees within a three-year time frame, as envisaged by the Governance Code.
6.3 The non-executive directors, Action taken to achieve compliance: ledby the senior independent This review will be performed by the Senior Independent Director during 2016. director, should be responsible for performance evaluation of the chairman, taking into account the views of executive directors.
indd 45 12 04 2016 13:02 46 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Statement continued Governance Codeprovision Description Comments C. 2.3 The board should monitor the Immediately prior to Admission the Board approved the thorough and detailed review companys risk management ofmaterial internal controls in relation to financial, operational and compliance matters, andinternal control systems that had been conducted during the IPO process.
The Directors are comfortable that and, at least annually, carry out for the period covered by the Annual Report & Accounts that the controls continued to areview of their effectiveness, operate effectively.
However, the Board did not conduct a formal review of the and report on that review in the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal controls prior annual report.
The monitoring to31December 2015 and hence was not compliant with the recommendations of and review should cover all theGovernance Code in this respect.
material controls, including financial, operational and Action taken to achieve compliance: compliance controls.
In preparing the Annual Report & Accounts the Board identified the principal risksfaced by the Group and has set out ways in which they may be mitigated and managed.
The Audit Committee will monitor these controls throughout the year andreport to the Board accordingly.
The Board intends to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal control in 2016, inaccordance with the FRCs guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
C. 3.1 The board should establish The Audit Committee is chaired by Jonathan Nicholls and its other members are anaudit committee of at TraceyGraham and Lynn Minella.
The Governance Code recommends that, in the leastthree independent caseof FTSE 350 companies, the Audit and Risk Committee comprises atleast three non-executive directors.
Non-Executive Directors, independent for the purposes of the Governance Code, andthat one such member has recent and relevant financial experience.
Jonathan Nicholls has recent and relevant financial experience.
As at the year-end the Company had not complied with the recommendations of the Governance Code in respect of the number of independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the period between Admission and the year-end Jamie Pike was a member ofthe Committee.
Action taken to achieve compliance: Since the year-end Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella became members of the Committee.
Having been a member since Admission, Jamie Pike stepped down fromthe Committee on 24 February 2016.
As of the date of this Annual Report the Company is compliant with the recommendations of the Governance Code in this respect.
D. 2.1 The board should establish The Governance Code recommends that all members of the Remuneration Committee aremuneration committee be Non-Executive Directors, independent for the purposes of the Governance Code.
ofatleast three independent non-executive directors.
Having been a member at Admission, Wayne Sheppard stepped down from the Inaddition, the Company Committee on 24 February 2016.
Chairman mayalso be a member of, but not chair of, During the period between Admission and the appointment of Lynn Minella, thecommittee if he or she theCommittee was chaired by Jamie Pike.
Action taken to achieve compliance: As of the date of this Annual Report the Company is compliant with the recommendations of the Governance Code in this respect.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Lynn Minella and its other members areJonathan Nicholls, Jamie Pike and Tracey Graham.
The Listing Rules require that we state how the Main Principles Share Dealing Code setout in the Governance Code have been applied.
The required The Company has adopted a code of securities dealings in relation detail in line with the specific provisions of the Governance Code to the Ordinary Shares which is based on, and is at least as rigorous isset out in this Corporate Governance Statement.
as, the model code as published in the Listing Rules.
The code adopted applies to the Directors, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities and relevant employees of the Group.
indd 46 12 04 2016 13:02 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 47 Relationship with shareholders Leadership The Board recognises the importance of creating a clear flow of Board composition communication with all of the Company stakeholders including The Governance Code recommends that the board of directors shareholders, particularly with regard to business developments ofa UK premium listed company includes an appropriate and financial results.
The Board aims to communicate on a regular combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, with basis and at present the Company utilises news releases, investor independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman presentations and Company publications and will expand comprising at least half the board.
As at 31 December 2015, the communication channels where necessary.
Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, one independent Non-Executive Director, two non-independent Non-Executive All shareholders are invited to the Companys Annual General Directors and two Executive Directors.
The Company considers Meeting the AGM, at which they will have the opportunity to that Jamie Pike was independent on appointment and regards meet and put questions to the Board.
Details of the resolutions to Jonathan Nicholls as independent for the purposes of the be proposed at the AGM to be held on 26 May 2016 at 2:00 p. m. Governance Code.
atthe Mercure Leicester The Grand Hotel, Granby Street, Leicester LE1 6ES can be found in the Notice of Meeting, which, together In February 2016, Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella were appointed with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full as Non-Executive Directors, whom the Board regards as details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights is contained independent for the purposes of the Governance Code.
inacircular which will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20working days before such meeting together with this Report.
Appointment of Non-Executive Directors and observer Thisdocument will also be available on the Ibstock plc website bythe controlling shareholder www.
Results of voting at the AGM will On 22 October 2015, the Company entered into a Relationship beannounced to the London Stock Exchange and will be published Agreement with Diamond BC S. r. l. the controlling shareholder, on our website at www.
under the terms of which the controlling shareholder has a right tonominate for appointment two Directors each a Shareholder In line with the Governance Code, the Board has appointed Director to the Board of the Company whilst its and its associates Jonathan Nicholls as Senior Independent Director SID.
shareholding in the Company is 25% or more: and to nominate Jonathanis available to shareholders throughout the year if they forappointment one Shareholder Director to the Board of the have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Company whilst its and its associates shareholding in the Chairman or other Executive Directors have failed to resolve or Company is 10% or more.
If the controlling shareholders forwhich such channels of communication are inappropriate.
shareholding in the Company is reduced to less than 25%, but is 10% or more and two Shareholder Directors are appointed to the The SID has met with the majority shareholders, Diamond BC Board of the Company, the controlling shareholder will, if requested S. r. l. on a regular basis through their representatives on the by the Board, procure that one of its nominated Directors resigns Board ofDirectors.
If the controlling shareholder and its associates shareholding in the Company is reduced to less than 10%, the controlling shareholder will, if requested by the Board, procure thatall of its remaining nominated Directors resign from the Board.
In addition, for as long as the controlling shareholder and its associates shareholding in the Company is 10% or more, the controlling shareholder shall also be entitled to appoint one Shareholder Director as a member of the Nomination Committee and, if invited by the Chairman of the relevant committee to send aShareholder Director as an observer to meetings of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Board confirms that, during the period from 22 October 2015 until the date of this report: the Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied withby the controlling shareholder and its associates: and so far as the Company is aware, the procurement obligation included in the Relationship Agreement has been complied withby the controlling shareholder.
indd 47 12 04 2016 13:02 48 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Diversity Corporate Governance We fully support the aims, objectives and recommendations Statement outlined in Lord Davies Report Women on Boards and are awareof the need to increase the number of women on our Board continued and in senior positions throughout the Group.
However, we do notconsider that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets for gender on the Board and we will continue to make appointments based on merit, against objective criteria to ensure we appoint the best individual Board responsibilities and procedures for each role.
Across our business of approximately 2,700 employees, The following is a high level summary of the principal decisions c13.3% are female.
Following the appointment of Tracey Graham thatare specifically reserved for the Board: and Lynn Minella in February 2016, 25% of the Board are women.
Responsibility for the overall management of the Group, including monitoring the Groups operating and financial Decision-making and Directors conflicts of interest performance.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have Approval of the Groups long-term objectives, values, or may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless standards, commercial strategy and annual budgets.
that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
This includes potential Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position with another company.
The Companys Articles of Association, which budgets and any subsequent material changes to them.
arein line with the Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to Making changes to the Groups capital, legal and corporate authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose structure, including reduction, consolidation, sub-division or limits or conditions, as appropriate, when giving any authorisation.
Any decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest is only Approval of the half-yearly report, trading updates, the effective if it is agreed without the conflicted Directors voting or preliminary announcement of the final results and the without their votes being counted.
In making such a decision, the Annual Report & Accounts.
Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be Approval of the dividend policy and declaration of any mostlikely to promote the success of the Company.
Approval of accounting and treasury policies, the Groups The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate internal control systems and risk management strategy.
authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new Approval of significant acquisitions and disposals and Director, or prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular review materialcapital investments.
of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
An Interests Register Approval of significant borrowing facilities and other material records any authorised potential conflicts and will be reviewed contracts and transactions.
bythe Board on a regular basis to ensure that the procedure is Approval of resolutions to be put forward for shareholder working effectively.
approval at a General Meeting and all communications with shareholders and the market.
Board induction and development Managing membership and approving adequate succession On appointment, Non-Executive Directors, who are expected planning for the Board.
toprovide a time commitment to the Company of at least 25 days Responsibility for the Groups corporate governance, a year and to recognise theneed for availability in the event of determining the remuneration policy of the Group and acrisis, are provided with adetailed induction programme.
induction programme coversthe Companys operations, including Approval of the Groups health and safety and sustainability social, ethical and environmental matters, the Groups principal andenvironmental policies.
risks and internal controls in place to manage those risks, meetings Ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders based with senior management and tours of the Groups main properties.
The Directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent professional advice and are encouraged to continually update Matters not specifically reserved for the Board, including the day theirprofessional skills and knowledge of the business.
Senior today management of the Group, are delegated to the Executive managers and external advisers present to the Board during the Directors.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, allDirectors year on a range of subjects and the Directors also individually receive appropriate and timely information.
attend seminars or conferences associated with their expertise.
The level and nature of training by the Directors will be reviewed Board Committees bythe Chairman at least annually.
As envisaged by the Governance Code, the Board has established three principal Committees of the Board: an Audit Committee, aNomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
Each Committee has formally delegated duties and responsibilities set out inits written terms of reference.
If the need should arise, the Board may establish additional committees, to consider specific issues, as appropriate.
In line with each of the Committees terms of reference, only members of the relevant Committee have the right to attend andvote at its meetings.
Committee meetings arealso attended bythe Company Secretary, who acts as the secretary to each of theCommittees.
When appropriate, non-members on the Board, together with the Executive Directors maybe invited to attend all orany part of any Committee meeting.
The matters reserved for theBoard and the terms of reference for each of the Board Committees are available on the Companys corporate website, atwww.
Details of each ofthe Boardappointed Committees and their activities during theyear are set outin the separate Committee Reports on pages 52 to 78, which are incorporated into the Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of the meetings to the Board.
Details of Committee memberships are included in the Directors biographies on pages 42 and 43.
indd 48 12 04 2016 13:02 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 49 The Company has also provided an indemnity for its Directors to the extent permitted by the law in respect of liabilities incurred as a Effectiveness result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently Division of responsibilities ordishonestly.
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer For the Board to remain effective, the Governance Code requires Board evaluation aclear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the As the Company has listed relatively recently, and as outlined in Chief Executive Officer.
These positions are held by Jamie Pike ourcompliance statement above, a formal and rigorous Board asChairman and Wayne Sheppard as Chief Executive Officer.
The evaluation process, as required by the Governance Code, has roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive notyet been undertaken.
However, an internal review of the Officer are set out and are available to view on the Companys effectiveness of the Board and its Committees will be undertaken corporate website at www.
during the forthcoming year and a formal independent evaluation of the Board and its Committees will be conducted at an appropriate The Chairman reports to the Board and is the guardian of stage in the Boards development, but nevertheless within three theBoards decision-making processes.
He is responsible for years, as recommended by the Governance Code.
Going forward, leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all the Chairman will meet with the independent Non-Executive aspects of its role.
The Chairman also promotes a culture of Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors bi-annually openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of andthe Senior Independent Director will meet with the independent Non-Executive Directors in particular and ensuring constructive Non-Executive Directors annually, inthe absence of the Chairman, relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The to appraise his performance.
Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and that there is effective Development and advice communication with shareholders.
The Directors of all Group companies, as well as the Board, also haveaccess to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Chief Executive Officer, assisted by senior management, is Independent external legal and professional advice can also be responsible for proposing and developing the Companys strategy taken when necessary to do so.
Furthermore, each Committee of and commercial objectives for consideration by the Board, and the Board has access to sufficient and tailored resources to carry forimplementing the decisions of the Board into the day to day out its duties.
A personalised induction and subsequent training functions of the business.
programme is provided to new members of theBoard and itsCommittees.
The Chief Financial Officer The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the financial reporting Meetings and attendance and management of the Group.
In addition to the finance, audit, The Board intends to meet approximately eight times a year and tax and treasury functions, he is also jointly responsible with the may meet at other times as required or otherwise at the request of Chief Executive Officer for the Groups M&A strategy, and one or more of the Directors.
Where urgent decisions are required between meetings on matters specifically reserved for the Board, investorrelations.
there is a process in place to facilitate discussion and decisionmaking.
The Directors regularly communicate and exchange The Senior Independent Director information irrespective of the timing of meetings.
The Senior Independent Director is available for shareholders to voice any concerns which may not be appropriate for discussion The number of meetings of the Board and the attendance by the through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Directors during the period between Admission and the year-end or Chief Financial Officer.
The Senior Independent Director also isdisclosed in the following table: leads the Chairmans appraisal, serves as an intermediary for theother Directors with the Chairman as necessary and acts Audit Remuneration Nomination asasounding board for the Chairman as required.
Name Board Committee Committee Committee Jamie Pike 2 2 1 1 2 2 0 0 Non-Executive Directors At the date of this report, Independent Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Nicholls 2 2 1 1 2 2 0 0 comprise 42% of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
TheBoard Michel Plantevin 2 2 n a n a 0 0 believes that these Non-Executive Directors, Jonathan Nicholls, Matthias Boyer Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella, possess strong independent Chammard 2 2 n a n a n a character and judgement and bring a wide range of business experience in some areas related to and in other areas Wayne Sheppard 2 2 n a 2 2 n a complementary to the activities of the Group.
Kevin Sims 2 2 n a n a n a Directors insurance cover and indemnity Footnote: The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors and All of the Boards committees were established immediately prior to Officersliability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain Admission.
The Nomination Committee did not meet formally during the period of time between Admission and the year-end.
circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including, asrecommended by the Governance Code, the Directors.
This table only shows those meetings which each Director Thisinsurance policy does not provide cover where the attendedas a member rather than as an invitee.
Where n a DirectororOfficer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee.
Directorsdo not participate in meetings when mattersrelating tothem arediscussed.
indd 49 12 04 2016 13:02 50 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 The Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives from Corporate Governance the businesses to address financial, human resource, legal, risk Statement management and other control issues.
During the period the Boardhas performed a review of the effectiveness of internal continued control and the management of risks as part of the IPO.
In relation to the Boards responsibility to approve the financial statements the Board sets out its Directors Responsibility Statement at the end of this section.
The Board also retains its The Board aims to hold at least two Board meetings each year at responsibility to approve the annual budget.
Monitoring of the Group business locations, both in the UK and the US, to enable annual budget, following approval, is carried out through regular Board members to gain a deeper understanding of the business.
updates against budget circulated as part of the Chief Financial This also provides senior managers from across the Group with Officers report to the Board.
In addition, the Board reviews all theopportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the significant capital expenditure requests separately, after a general Directors on more informal occasions.
approval for the quantum of the capital expenditure budget has been granted.
Measures such as these maintain adequate levels Since the year-end the Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration ofcontrol and scrutiny over the budget and capital expenditure Committee and Nomination Committee each met on one occasion.
The Board recognises that its committees are The meetings were attended by all those eligible to attend.
onlyempowered to make recommendations to the Board for theirapproval, unless a specific authorisation to approve certain External directorships mattersis granted.
To facilitate information flows, a verbal Any external appointments or other significant commitments of updateisgiven by the Chairman of the relevant committee in theDirectors require the prior approval of the Board.
The external thesubsequent Board meeting following a committee meeting.
commitments of the Board are set out in their biographies on pages 42 and 43.
The Board is content with the level of external The Board intends to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the directorships of its Chairman and independent Non-Executive Groups system of risk management and internal control in 2016, Directors as these do not impact on the time that any Director inaccordance with the FRCs guidance on Risk Management, devotes to the Company and we believe that this experience Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
onlyenhances the capability of the Board.
None of the Executive Directors hold external directorships save for Wayne Sheppard, Fair, balanced and understandable a matter for the who is Principal of the Construction Products Association, a wholeBoard Director of the British Ceramic Confederation, and a Director As part of its considerations as to whether the2015 Annual Report oftheBrick Development Association.
& Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy, the Board takes into account the following: the Chairman and Chief Executive provide input to and agree onthe overall messages and tone of the Annual Report at an Accountability early stage: individual sections of the Annual Report and financial statements are drafted by appropriate senior management with regular Internal controls review meetings to ensure consistency of the whole document: The Board remains ultimately accountable for a clear number of detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the Annual areas that are contained in its Matters Reserved for the Board, Report & Accounts are undertaken by the Executive Directors: including responsibility for the effectiveness of internal control and a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the auditors risk management.
The Board as a whole discuss, challenge and on a timely basis to allow sufficient consideration and is give approval on thefinancial statements.
Details of the internal discussed with the Chief Financial Officer and senior controls of the Company including a description of the main management prior to consideration by the Board: and features of its internal control and risk management arrangements the Chief Financial Officer, in his February Board paper, includes in relation to the financial reporting process and the manner in a checklist of areas that the Board should take into consideration which the Board and its committees assess the effectiveness of in considering the fairness, consistency and balance of the final these controls are set out as part of the Audit Committee Report draft of the Annual Report and financial statements, including on pages 53 to 55. whether the Board considers that there are any omissions ininformation.
The Groups internal control is based on assessment of risk and aframework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor The Statement of Going Concern and the Viability Statement compliance with procedures.
The internal control systems are appear on page 80. designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks towhich it is exposed and, by their nature, can provide only Jamie Pike reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material loss to Chairman theGroup or material misstatement in the financial accounts.
10 March 2016 The Group has a process for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks.
The Board has during the period identified and evaluated the key risks and has ensured that effective controls and procedures are in place to manage these risks.
indd 50 12 04 2016 13:02 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 51 Directors responsibilities The Directors are of the opinion that the Annual Report & The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable andthe financial statements in accordance with applicable law and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess andregulations.
the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Directors Responsibility Statement for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required The Directors who were in office as at 31 December 2015 and toprepare the Group financial statements in accordance with whose names and functions are given on pages 42 and 43 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted confirmthat to the best of their knowledge: bythe European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting ofthe assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS theGroup and Company and the undertakings included in 102, The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United theconsolidation taken as a whole: and Kingdom and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law.
Under the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair company law the Directors must not approve the Accounts unless reviewof the development and performance of the business they are satisfied that they give a true and fair viewof the state of andthe position of the Group and Company and the affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or lossofthe undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Group for that period.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: This Responsibility Statement was approved by the Board of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Directors on 10 March 2016 and is signed on its behalf by: consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Wayne Sheppard Kevin Sims and prudent: Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards 10 March 2016 10 March 2016 have beenfollowed, subject to any material departures disclosed andexplained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard No.
1 requires Directors to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a mannerthat provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specificrequirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable userstounderstand the impact of particular transactions, othereventsand conditions on the entitys financial position andfinancial performance: and make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as agoing concern and prepare the financial statements on thegoing concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume thatthe Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and toenable them to ensure that the financial statements comply withthe Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the preventionand detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
