Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report Set out below is the Boards formal report on Corporate Governance and separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
UK Corporate Governance Code - The role of the Board and the division of responsibilities Compliance statement between the Chairman and the Chief Executive are outlined in the Directors Report on page 134 and 135.
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year Independence of non-executive directors ending 31 December 2015 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the 2014 UK The Board considers that all five current non-executive Corporate Governance Code the Code and complied with its directors are free from any business or other relationship which best practice provisions as set out below, and in the Directors could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Report and other cross-referenced sections of this Annual judgement.
All non-executive directors meet the criteria for Report, all of which are incorporated by reference into this report.
independence under the Code save that Isobel Sharp is a co-director with Lord Smith on the board of the UK Green A description of the main features of the Companys internal Investment Bank plc, a government owned financial institution.
control system and other regulatory matters including statements Cross-directorships are recognised in the Code criteria for on going concern and viability can be found on pages 133 to 136 independence as a potential consideration in relation to the in the Directors Report.
Risk management systems and principal assessment of independence.
The Board has considered risks and uncertainties are summarised on pages 33 to 35. the circumstances and regards Isobel and all of the other Information on corporate responsibility can be found on pages non-executive directors as independent.
Smith, was also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment to the Board.
The non-executive directors are a The Board diverse group from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in Composition commerce, finance and industry in various parts of the world.
At the end of 2015 and to date in 2016 the Board comprised nine directors: the Chairman: the Chief Executive: five Dates of appointment independent non-executive directors: the Finance Director and one operational executive director.
Name Date of appointment Date of current letter Anticipated expiry of of appointment current term Roberto Quarta, Anita Frew and Douglas Hurt retired at the Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 20 December 2015 30 September 2018 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Daniel Shook was appointed Ross McInnes 1 October 2014 20 December 2015 30 September 2017 as an executive director from 1 January 2015 and became Birgit Nrgaard 6 November 2012 20 December 2015 5 November 2018 Finance Director on 1 March 2015.
Isobel Sharp joined as a Isobel Sharp 1 September 2015 20 December 2015 31 August 2018 non-executive director on 1 September 2015.
Lord Robert Smith 7 May 2015 20 December 2015 6 May 2018 In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves Bob Stack 13 June 2008 20 December 2015 12 June 2016 for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Board gender Board balance at the year end current at the year end current Women 2 1 3 5 Men 7 1 Chairman 3 Executive directors 5 Non-executive directors 50 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd Meetings and use of Board time Board and Committee attendance 2015 The Board met on six occasions during the year including Director Board Audit Nominations Remuneration meetings Committee Committee Committee quarterly reviews, results meetings, strategy discussions and meetings meetings meetings meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose.
6 4 4 3 Carl-Peter Forster 6 4 - 3 Highlights of other Board activity in 2015 included: i 2 1 1 1 Anita Frew As the year opened, IMI searched for a new Chairman Ross McInnes 6 4 - - and, after a full process led by Anita Frew, the then senior ii Birgit Nrgaard 6 4 3 3 independent non-executive director, Lord Smith was selected i Roberto Quarta 2 - 1 0 Progress with Board succession iv Isobel Sharp 3 1 - - - New Finance Director, Daniel Shook, appointed and smooth iii Lord Smith 3 - 3 - handover effected in March 2015 Bob Stack 6 - 4 3 - New non-executive director, Isobel Sharp, with a strong Mark Selway 6 - 1 - financial background appointed i 2 - - - Douglas Hurt Growth and process investments Daniel Shook 6 - - - Roy Twite 5 - - - - Continuing growth investments made in new products and business IT systems i Retired as a director in May 2015 - Embedded core process disciplines including lean, ii Joined the Nominations Committee in May 2015 risk, compliance, new product development and iii Joined the Board in May 2015 policy deployment iv Joined the Board in September 2015 - Three major new facilities up and running - Completion of the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther to Induction and continuing development programme complement our control valve business in Critical Engineering A formal induction process for new non-executive directors has been well established for several years and is the responsibility The Boards time of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
This process was refreshed in the year Corporate Governance 5% to reflect changes introduced in consultation with the Risk, legal and compliance new Chairman.
Operational performance 10% and plans 30% Business familiarisation is at the core of induction and continuing Major investments 15% development for non-executive directors at IMI and is based around gaining an understanding of the business and getting to know the wider management team.
All non-executive directors Financial Strategy are expected to attend one of the corporate induction days 15% 25% at head office.
There is also a committee induction process designed to brief new committee members on the relevant committees activity and the issues it faces.
Non-executive directors are required to visit business units around the Group and, most importantly, to meet face-to-face with senior operating management and key corporate staff.
Non-executive directors continue to become familiar with the businesses after induction and there is regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits, formal meetings and events.
During the year all of the non-executive directors made site visits and the whole Board spent two days in Brno, Czech Republic where it visited the largest sites in Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Appropriate coaching and access to training and other Standing committees of the Board continuing professional development is available to all nonThe standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, executive directors and appropriate updates were given the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
during the year at Board and Committee meetings.
Special Each of these committees operates under written terms of governance and regulatory refresher sessions were held during reference which clearly set out their respective delegated the year, attended by all of the non-executive directors.
The full terms of reference of these committees are part of the Corporate Governance Board evaluation Framework which appears on the IMI website.
The In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman Committees report to the Board on their work, normally should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process, through their respective chair, following each meeting.
normally at least once every three years.
In 2014 such a Separate reports from the Committees appear as follows: process was conducted and facilitated by Independent Audit Committee on pages 54 to 56: Nominations Committee Board Evaluation.
on pages 57 and 58 and Remuneration Committee on pages Excellent progress has been made in relation to the actions 59 to 71. arising from the external evaluation exercise in 2014, and some highlights are given below: introducing governance training for all first-time UK plc Board members: allowing more Board time, specifically dedicated to strategy process: establishing a Board succession plan, agreed by the Nominations Committee: and increasing Board contact with senior management.
In 2015 an internal evaluation exercise was carried out through non-attributable questionnaires and canvassing comments from directors.
The results were positive and Board members noted some areas for development over the coming year, including most notably, the appointment of all of the non-executive directors to the Nominations Committee and a training session on best practice for the expanded Nominations Committee.
The Board received the findings of the internal evaluation in December 2015 and after review the directors confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately and that the Board and its Committees were effective and that each continuing director demonstrated a valuable contribution.
52 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Ross McInnes Lord Smith of Kelvin Bob Stack Chairman Chairman Chairman Membership: Membership: Membership: Carl-Peter Forster Carl-Peter Forster Carl-Peter Forster Birgit Nrgaard Ross McInnes Birgit Nrgaard Isobel Sharp Birgit Nrgaard Isobel Sharp Bob Stack Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Financial reporting Board and committee composition Define and recommend the remuneration policy Oversight role in relation to financial statements Succession plans for the Board and for senior Determine the individual remuneration packages for management and corporate roles the most senior executives and the Chairman within Reviewing significant areas of judgement and the policy approved by shareholders accounting policies Search for and recommendation of candidates for appointment as non-executive directors, Chief Set annual and long-term incentive metrics and Advising the Board on whether the draft Annual Executive and other executive director positions awards and determine the outcomes Report is fair, balanced and understandable Diversity policy and monitoring of progress Report on remuneration matters and constructively Monitoring announcements in respect of engage with shareholders financial performance Review and recommendation of proposals for the assignment of major executive responsibilities Assess risk in respect of remuneration and incentive Financial control and risk and the appointment and removal of divisional structures in particular business leaders Monitoring the effectiveness of internal financial controls Reviewing financial risk including fraud risk Oversight of internal audit Managing the external audit process, its objectivity, effectiveness and cost Appointment of the auditor and responsibility for the audit fee Reviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing and the treatment of reports received Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Executive Committee In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results and interim results announcements, as The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and well as two interim management statements between results the other members are shown on page 14.
The IMI website includes recordings of include the Group Financial Controller, Director of Risk and certain key presentations made by senior management, Compliance, and the Head of Investor Relations.
Other senior recent annual and interim reports, interim management executives and line managers from around the Group are statements, other corporate announcements and links to regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive the websites of the Groups businesses.
The Committee meets monthly and more often arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders as may be required, and all members attended all but one with Equiniti details are shown on page 156.
A sponsored or two meetings during their tenure in the year.
Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been The Executive Committee is the senior management body and established for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary as part of the broad remit set by the Chief Executive it monitors details can be found on page 156. and manages business performance, reviews progress against The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced strategic objectives, considers business management issues understanding of the issues and concerns of major and formulates budgets and proposals on strategy, policy shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
Financial analysts notes are circulated to the The Executive Committee is not a committee of the Board.
directors and the Board receives regular feedback reports The Executive Committee plays a key part in the risk from the Companys brokers.
Dialogue is maintained with assessment, risk management and monitoring processes shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance, with institutional investors.
The Chief Executive and Finance legal and corporate affairs.
Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and report to the Board on shareholder issues.
Investor relations They are supported by the Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman has also met with some major investors The 2015 Annual General Meeting was presided over by the and the senior independent director is available to Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing shareholders as needed.
committees of the Board and other directors.
The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and During 2015 there were consultations with the larger the directors met shareholders informally afterwards.
shareholders and institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect of remuneration matters and the new Each substantively separate issue was put to the 2015 Annual incentive plans and remuneration policy, which were General Meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was tabled for shareholder approval at the 2015 Annual invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and General Meeting.
to deal with other regular business.
Separate resolutions for the approval of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, Directors Remuneration Policy were also put to the meeting voting and other rights of shareholders, directors conflicts and a new long-term incentive plan and sharesave plan were and indemnification and certain other regulatory disclosures approved.
Notice of the 2015 Annual General Meeting was are set out in the Directors Report on pages 133 to 136. issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, By order of the Board together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and shown on the IMI website.
The Board values the John OShea support of shareholders and the poll results for all resolutions Group Legal Director and Company Secretary proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting were well above 90% in favour in each case.
