Nomination Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present my first report for the Nomination Committee.
I was delighted to join the Board in March 2015 as Chairman after Geoff Shingles indicated his intention to retire from the Board, having served for over 19 years as Chairman.
Geoff was keen to ensure that an orderly succession took place and did not indicate a timescale only stepping down once a suitable candidate was found.
The Nomination Committee led by the Senior Independent Director, David Anderson, facilitated the search for a suitable candidate to replace Geoff.
An independent consultancy EgonZehnder Consulting LLP, were appointed to conduct the search after a competitive tender process.
EgonZehnder supported David Anderson and the Committee and after due process I joined the Board in March 2015.
At the 2014 AGM, David Hurst-Brown stepped down from his position as a non-executive director having served for over 14 years on the Board.
The Nomination Committee reviewed and evaluated the skills and experience of the board and concluded that upon recommendation from members of the Board, Kate Rock had the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience to complement the Board.
Kate was appointed as a non-executive director in August 2014.
Roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee The role of the Nomination Committee is to lead the process for new appointments to the Board, to ensure there is a formal procedure for the appointment and induction of new directors for the Group.
During the year, the Committee continued to develop its succession plans for executives and non-executive directors.
The Committee initiated the recruitment process for the two appointments, mentioned above.
As part of this process we have taken into account the respective tenures of office, analysing the skills which were either missing or could be missing in future and how different personalities would fit the Board.
The Nomination Committee has, during the year, reviewed and confirmed to the Board that it remains satisfied, that all of the non-executive directors are independent in that they have no business or other relationship with the Group that might influence their independence or judgement.
The main duties of the Committee include but are not limited to the following: Review the size, composition and structure of the Board and the Board committees: Review succession planning for the Board and senior levels within the Group and ensure an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity: Oversee induction plans for directors: Evaluate the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board: and Consider diversity issues.
Composition of the Committee Bert Nordberg Chairman David Anderson Gilles Delfassy Andrew Heath Hossein Yassaie The Committee had four meetings during the year, the attendance of which is given on page 68.
Directors report 73 | The Committee continues to support the Groups management and leadership development programme for the executives and senior management.
It is considered essential in support of the Groups strategy and continued development.
Hossein Yassaie is a Committee member in order to ensure that there is a balance between executive and non-executive directors on the Committee.
We are satisfied with the current composition of the Board and ensure we will continue to assess that the Board has the requisite skills and experience as our markets develop.
Bert Nordberg Chairman of the Nomination Committee 29 June 2015 74 Directors report |
